ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the third working week of the IXth plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. Now it's time to hand over drafts and enquiries if anyone has a wish. It doesn't look like it. We're going to the presence check. 58 members of the Riigikogu are present, 43 are absent.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U2	We will go to the first item on the Thursday agenda. This is the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the President of the Republic, Kersti Kaljulaid, "Priit Pikamäe Release of the Chairman of the Supreme Court" 787. I'll show you how it's handled. First, the presentation of the commission is up to 20 minutes, then questions to the rapporteur; each member of the Riigikogu may ask one oral question. Then there will be negotiations, where only the representatives of the political groups can speak, and a final vote. I'd like a chair from Helmut Hallemaa, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U3	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable candidate for the President of the Supreme Court Villu Kõve and guests! Today, as the first items on the agenda, we have two interlinked decisions that are important for the national legal system. The first of these is the dismissal of Priit Pikamäe, President of the Supreme Court, which was dealt with by the Constitutional Committee on 21 January. Members of the Commission were present, there was no Jüri Adams, Jaak Madison, Lauri Luik. Priit Pikamäe, the head of the Supreme Court, participated in the video bridge and, finally, in the mobile phone. Tiit Riisalo, Head of the Office of the President, who also attended our sitting, explained that Priit Pikamäe applied for early release from office of the President of the Supreme Court on 9 January. a 4 February of its own accord. The reason is for his appointment as Advocate General of the Court of Justice. On the basis of § 78 (11) and 150 (1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, the President proposed the appointment of Villu Kõve as the new President of the Supreme Court from 4 February. In fact, the President has four months to fill in for the Chairman of the Supreme Court if he remains vacant, but the President considered it necessary that such a long period is not used and the procedure is carried out at the same time as the President of the Supreme Court becomes vacant and goes to another post. During the committee's discussion Hanno Pevkur asked whether all formal legal obstacles to taking up the post of Advocate General of the European Court of Justice of Priit Pikamäe had been removed following the decision of the Riigikogu. I say so much more detachable that this is the highest position of the lawyer of the European Court of Justice, which Estonia has so far fulfilled. Priit Pikamäe replied that this process was a three-step process stemming from the European Treaties, as well as from other documents, and that he had completed two positions or stages at that time. As of today, all three stages have been completed. In September, the Government of the Republic proposed the appointment of Priit Pikamäe as Advocate General of the Court of Justice. A hearing was also held in December in the Committee designated by representatives of the European Union and was passed through Priit Pikamäe. In the Committee's view, he met the requirements of the Advocate General's office and yesterday he was appointed by the Assembly of Representatives of the European Union. The Commission finally took the following procedural decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda today, 31 January, to appoint a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs before you and to propose a final vote on the draft. All decisions have been taken by consensus, with the consensus of Marko Pomerants, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Tiit Terik, Mikhail Korb, Helmut Hallemaa, Peep Aru and Hanno Pevkur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U4	Thank you, Honourable Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Helmut Hallemaa. You don't seem to have any questions. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 787. Let's prepare the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? I vote on the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Priit Pikamäe Freeing the President of the Supreme Court" submitted by the President of the Republic, Kersti Kaljulaid. 787. Please take a stand and vote. 61 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, there were no votes against, no abstentions and no participation of 6. The draft decision has been adopted and Priit Pikamäe has been released from office as Chairman of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U5	Let's go to the second item on today's agenda. First reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Appointing the President of the Villu Kõve Supreme Court" submitted by the President of the Republic, Kersti Kaljulaid. Please speak to Helmut Hallemaa, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U6	Good President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Dear Villu Kõve, candidate for the President of the Supreme Court! I will, however, start with what I did not say at the end of the previous speech. In fact, Priit Pikamäe also thanked us in the committee, both the Riigikogu and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, this is certainly important information. We wish him strength in a new role. We also discussed the issue of the appointment of the new Chairman of the Supreme Court at the same meeting of the Constitutional Committee on 21 January. On the basis of § 65 (7) and § 150 of the Constitution, the President of the Republic proposes to appoint Mr Villu Kõve to this office. Villu Kõve has very long legal and legal experience as well as academic experience. He graduated from the University of Tartu cum laude, has a master's degree in law and a doctorate and has also studied at the University of Hamburg for two years. Kõve has been a lawyer, founder and member of the management board of the law firm, judge of the civil chamber of the Supreme Court since 2002 and from 2014 also chairman of this college, and from 2004 until today lecturer and associate professor of private law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Tartu. In the discussion of the committee, I myself took an interest in the work of the Supreme Court, which is the first of the most important tasks of the new Supreme Court, the possible chairman. According to Villu Kõve, one of the main questions is definitely human resources, as five of the seven members of the Civil Chamber change in the near future, while four others retire after Villu Kõve has been appointed Chairman of the Supreme Court. At all, the Supreme Court needs to deal with this issue and find dignified and well-known legal systems, as well as legally authoritative persons. This process is definitely ahead of us. Member of the Commission Hanno Pevkur was interested in the direction of the Estonian judicial system under the leadership of the Supreme Court and in the vision of Villu Kõve as the candidate for the President of the Supreme Court. Mr Villu Kõve replied that it was difficult to answer this question because the county, administrative and circuit courts are in the realm of the Ministry of Justice, but the Supreme Court is separate. In his opinion, the Riigikogu has passed laws based on the activities of all the courts on which the Supreme Court must base its work. Hanno Pevkur was interested and wanted to know Villu Kõve's opinion on whether the courts of first and second instance should be under the Supreme Court. Villu Hard said he didn't think so. Hanno Pevkur, Member of the same committee, was also interested in whether the Chairman of the Civil College should come from within or outside the College. Villu Kõve replied that he would most likely come from outside the composition of the Supreme Court, because five of the seven members are changing, and according to Villu Kõve, the two state judges remaining in the college have not wished to perform this work at least in the long term, but they will take over this work temporarily until they find a new chair of the college. In the committee, we made the following procedural decisions: to propose to put the draft on the agenda today, to appoint a member of the Constitutional Committee before you as rapporteur, pursuant to § 117 (3) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, to propose to Mr Villu Kõve, the candidate for the President of the Supreme Court, to present a presentation before the Riigikogu House for up to five minutes and to propose a final vote. All decisions were made by consensus, carried out by Marko Pomerants, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Tiit Terik, Mikhail Korb, Helmut Hallemaa, Peep Aru and Hanno Pevkur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U7	Thank you, dear waitress. You don't seem to have any questions. Ladies and gentlemen, there is too much buzz in the hall. Now, please listen to what the candidate for the President of the Supreme Court has to say to you! Villu Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! You've just released Priit Pikamäe from office, which means you have to fill a position with someone. The President of the Republic has presented me to this end. I welcome this, I am honoured, I have a sense of responsibility for this proposal. Thank you, first of all, for the groups that I met and could talk to, for the questions, for a friendly and pleasant conversation and for letting me know your concerns. I, in turn, may have been able to convey to you, in some form, my thoughts about the judicial system. Now, very briefly, I will try to sum up my point here in general. If you trust me with the office of head of the Supreme Court today, then I will try to hold this office with dignity, integrity, fairness and impartiality and to help Estonian law enforcement authorities to act effectively so that people's trust in the law enforcement system, especially the judicial system, grows. I want to work to ensure that the constitutional order of Estonia is guaranteed and stable, so that the fundamental rights of people are protected and they feel well and secure in Estonia. However, the head of the Supreme Court alone cannot do much. The President of the Supreme Court is the head of the Supreme Court; his main role in the administration of justice is limited to matters of constitutional supervision. The lower-level courts are managed by the Ministry of Justice, the role of the Supreme Court there is in some sense divided and the Chairman of the Supreme Court meets with its administration in particular within the framework of the court administration council. However, I am certainly trying to contribute myself to the development of the whole judicial system so that things can be resolved more quickly,'more understandable' and 'fairer'. The President of the Supreme Court cannot influence specific cases; therefore, it is always possible to make criticisms to me or any other Chairman of the Supreme Court that we do not like one or the other judgment given by a court, but the Chairman of the Supreme Court cannot actually do anything there. And I think that's the right thing to do, because that's the way it's supposed to be in a democratic country. The role of the President of the Court, as I understand it, is still to ensure that the court functions in such a way as to have the framework in place. The President of the Supreme Court cannot do anything without Parliament. Parliament will determine our legal framework, and Parliament will give us a budget. So I hope for good cooperation in the future with Parliament, the Government, the Ministry of Justice, just as the former president hoped now, even though he is still in office and released from 4th, and that his cooperation will continue while you trust me and I can run this system. What do I want to do? Certainly the subject of the judicial network, population decline, the application of information technology, all of this affects the judicial system. I would like to stand up for judges, their social security and wages, so that we can find the dignity and good people of the judicial system in the current generation, and to contribute to more flexible administration of justice and reasonable forms of procedure so that cases can be resolved in Estonia properly, fairly, impartially, as quickly as possible and at the lowest possible cost. That's all I have to tell you. I hope that if you give me this chance, I will honour that trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U9	Thank you. Honourable candidate for the Chairman of the Supreme Court, there is at least one question for you. Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U10	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable candidate for the President of the Supreme Court! From time to time, Estonia raises the question of the need for a constitutional court. As we know from world practice, there are countries where it exists, and there are countries that can do very well without the Constitutional Court, such as the Nordic countries. What is your personal position? I understand that the Supreme Court has no jurisdiction to change this situation, but still. Do you think there is a need for a separate Constitutional Court, or does the current system adequately address constitutional oversight problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U11	In my opinion, the current constitutional order is working. There is no need to change this in this sense if you reply briefly. However, I do think that we also need to think about how to strengthen or open up this constitutional review within the existing system. The possibilities can, of course, be discussed, but within the framework of the existing constitution, I suppose, we would not need a separate constitutional court.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U12	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Dear future President of the Supreme Court! Our courts have given various contradictory decisions. What is your view, for example, if the court deducts the recognised monthly maintenance allowance for the benefit of the party liable to pay the state child benefit? Do you also find that the public child benefit is intended to support the person liable for maintenance or is intended to support the parent who actually lives with the child and takes care of the child? Or how do you assess the situation in which the parties provide evidence of the event so that one party submits the original document and the other party submits a copy of that document? Which party's document should be treated by the court as proof and what should be done with a manifestly falsified document? Do you find that in these examples, the court has acted fairly? What are you going to do to stop such decisions coming?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U14	I myself have been dealing with maintenance issues for a very long time and have also been at several round tables in recent years, so I could talk about it for a very long time. This maintenance thing is actually a matter of very many ends. Since there has been a significant increase in all kinds of subsidies, but at the same time there has also been an increase in the minimum wage, the associated minimum subsistence, which many of them can no longer pay since two or three children, each euro has become the object of the dispute. There are two completely different approaches to child support. Indeed, one says that the state has taken into account the minimum without this child benefit, so that this minimum living allowance should always be paid, but the other says that it is meant for the benefit of the child and should somehow be distributed equally between the parents. That is how these perceptions have been different in the courts. The position of the Supreme Court has been that child benefit cannot be deducted directly without further circumstances. This has been the decision of the Supreme Court, which should be decisive in shaping practice, but the subject is open for discussion. I think that the right thing to do here is for the legislator to decide what to do with this minimum living. As far as I know, most countries do not have a minimum living in this form, i.e. there are no such rigid things. As far as the specific question of the assessment of the evidence is concerned, it is difficult for me to comment on it, because what you are talking about is likely to be based on a particular matter. It all depends on how it was valued there. The laws, the procedural codes in principle provide for the equality of evidence, it has been the sacred principle of the procedure that the court can judge the evidence according to its inland nature and that it can be verified by a higher court. Of course, once the original document has been identified, or rather, it has been found to have been forged, there is no question, because the forged document presented as proof should fall out in the course of the procedure. In this sense, I cannot comment on this in detail in a particular case. But over the past 16 years and before I was a lawyer, I have developed this notion that when I'm told something, I prefer to listen to the other side. One side may tell the truth and be absolutely convinced of it, but if you look at the papers afterwards, that truth may not be objectively the case. That's why I don't know what else to say right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U15	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U16	Thank you for this presentation. My question, too, is, say, broader, it can be taken a little more philosophically, not directly as a legal, legal analysis. This is about Abkhazian Estonians and other people whose natural citizenship has been the subject of disputes. There are two issues. One thing is that for a long time there has been one way to count the citizenship of people who were once granted citizenship in Estonia. This way was changed this year and people were informed that we have given you citizenship mistakenly, you must start applying for papers again. My first question: how do you feel about this way of organising things? If people were mistaken for passports and citizenship, should they retain this nationality? And the second question: how to communicate with these optants or how to solve this legal problem? Should we also take into account the practice that was in the first republic, or should the letter of the law only be followed coldly?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U17	Your question time is up.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U18	Thank you. I have to admit that, as a judge, my area of activity has been dealing with civil matters, in this sense the livelihood is much closer to me than administrative matters, and I have been following this issue of Estonian citizenship so far only from the press. That's why I haven't read these things myself. I have also not read the analysis carried out by the University of Tartu, where these standards were placed in parallel with each other, so I do not dare to make a 'legal assessment' of the current situation myself, i.e. I should not rather give it, as it may, in some form, be brought to justice. Looking purely human and as a citizen, it seems to me, too, that if people are granted citizenship and we have no very good reason to take it away from them, it could somehow be legalised. This could be the work of the Riigikogu in such a way that, when such a gap has arisen, it could be resolved in this way and taken out of the dispute, not pushed people into a race. But I think it would be best for the Riigikogu itself not to let it go to court.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U19	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U20	Thank you very much. Lately, I have received a call every week from some parents who have left a violent relationship with the police, the prosecutor's office, and women's shelters, and have come to court with divorce. However, the court has appointed a violent parent as guardian of the child. According to these parents, the court has failed to take account of the child's well-being, since the child must regularly visit a violent parent. How do you feel that when sharing custody of children, the court should take greater account of the prior violent behaviour of the parent?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U21	The whole issue of child custody, as well as the issue of maintenance, is a matter of very many currents. The number of child custody appointments has increased considerably in the Supreme Court in recent years. In fact, one might ask whether the role of the Supreme Court is to decide what kindergarten a child goes to, whether he usually meets his father or mother, whether he meets his father or his mother, from Friday evening to Sunday or every other week on Saturday and Sunday. Those matters are, in general, given to the discretion of the courts or to the courts of a lower instance on the basis of a free decision. What they take into account there is also quite a case law. Again, there is a lot of passion in matters involving children and, objectively, there is also a great deal of parental subjective thinking that things are viewed only by themselves. At the same time, the human rights court and experts say that the child's relationship with another parent should not be interrupted. A typical thing that raises questions is how to rule out or at least minimise violence against a child and whether a child should not meet the parent without outsiders. It has also been a question of whether if parents have been violent among themselves, it can be passed on to a child. It has been a bigger issue that even if parents have a conflict between themselves, the child is still well-connected. Therefore, the only thing we can do is involve child protection in the process, because there is an increasing need for psychology expertise to find out how something works. The judges know that. It is not that there is some sort of irresponsible behaviour. I can assure you that these matters will be dealt with very thoroughly. In addition, when circumstances change, you can always go back to court and quite a lot is being used. We are working on it, it is among the priorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U22	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I have a question that does not concern any cases or any such subject matter. In fact, very few lawyers can work as head of the Supreme Court. I ask you, what are these qualities of a person's or professional preparation, which, however, allow this work to be done in such a way that justice in society lasts.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U24	I have no place to look here other than the previous Supreme Court presidents, who have been appointed by the Riigikogu, what qualities they have had, what has been valued, and then try to be worthy of it. I think that the head of the Supreme Court must, first and foremost, be calm, balanced, joiner, a good judge of the Constitution and not create conflicts, try to keep together this system, where there are, in fact, a great many personalities in this administration of justice, to try to cope with it. What else can I say? If I look at my predecessors here, although I cannot yet say'my predecessors', the presidents of the Supreme Court who have been in office, I think they have all met these qualities. Since I now have a direct view of Priit Pikamägi, I say that I will try to continue his peaceful, stable and stoic line under the leadership of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U25	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U26	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good candidate for the Chairman of the Supreme Court! We also discussed at length in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in your opinion, the most important task, i.e. the human resources problems. It would be good if you also explained here how you intend to resolve the question of the future, or follow-up, of the Supreme Court and of the judicial system personnel at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U27	Well, here's two levels, one of them's urgent. As I said, the first urgent issue really is that two judges of state have now applied from the Civil Chamber, one of whom has been dismissed and the other should now reach the Supreme Court. Perhaps you will be able to process it before the new formation so that we can immediately announce three competitions for my seat. We've been looking and screening to find people who meet these criteria. They should be sufficiently well-known and recognized lawyers in Estonia, the preferred is, of course, work experience in the legal system, as well as academic degrees, good collegial working skills and knowledge of the Constitution. There are people like this in Estonia, and we are dealing with inviting them, because they still have to be invited to compete. A lot of humble people aren't coming, especially when they're working somewhere else. This is specifically the subject of the Supreme Court. At the same time, the Supreme Court also has one place in the Criminal Chamber, so in fact, we have four places to present to you immediately, who will be appointed here in the new Riigikogu. I also hope to work with the Riigikogu here. Priit Pikamäe, at least, promoted the practice that I would like to continue, that each candidate is going through the political group before he is presented, deciding whether he is fundamentally acceptable and appropriate, and only then will he be presented. I would certainly like to continue this practice. We cannot raise questions for anyone, so we come up with some unknown or unknown people who may not be suitable for Parliament. A man doesn't want to be devastated by it either. As a whole in the judicial system, we are still in the middle of a generational shift. This has already taken place in many respects, since very many of the first judges appointed have already retired and a large part of them are still retiring. That means new people are coming and coming. We also have a number of problems here. As I said in the political groups, finding the best lawyers in the state system has been a problem for us because they are being recruited into law firms already during the university period, not even to be expected to graduate. In organising competition for the state system, we need to think about how we can handle it better in order to get better people. We would still like to see decent and decent people as judges. Of course, it is unpopular to talk about wages, but the fact is that, given the changed system, the current state judge's salary in terms of purchasing power is the same as that paid by the first instance judge in 2007 as somebody brought that comparison. So much has changed, there are certain scissors here, and it all affects. Of course, the withdrawal of pensions also affects people, especially lawyers and prosecutors, to become judges. We have to deal with this. I'm glad we've been able to man Virumaa's courts, which was a long-standing child of pain where no one wanted to go. Now there is a judge who is willing to remain more stable there, the very good judge we have there, and we hope that everything will go well.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U28	Honourable candidate for the President of the Supreme Court Villu Kõve! No further questions for you. I will open negotiations for the political groups. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U29	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Free Party Group and myself are very pleased with the President's pre-selection that he has proposed this. But I will take this opportunity to say a few words about some of the things that have preceded this day, and perhaps to highlight the great historical significance of what is happening now. You see, right now we are replacing one middle generation of prominent lawyer from the head of the Supreme Court with another middle generation for a very distinguished lawyer. They are difficult to compare in the sense that they specialize in completely different branches of law. But what is important here is that this transition period from the Soviet era, when people had received their education and initial practice as well as in the Soviet legal system, seems now to be finally over. We are dealing with people whose conscious legal career began in the current restored independent Estonia. For both men it must be said that they are probably two of the generations who have had the greatest contact with the work of the Riigikogu. They are probably better than anyone else to assess the content of the activities of the Riigikogu. It has not always been the case that all lawyers and judges understand what this Riigikogu is and what it may not be suitable for. Experience is that there were two of the most extensive and important drafts in Riigikogu IX, which have been after the restoration of independence. One of them was the new penal code. There were two leading lawyers in the preparation of the Penal Code: the general part, drawn up under the direction of Professor Jaan Sootak, but the special part, i.e. the paragraphs of the offences and the amount of the penalties, was the work of Priit Pikamäe, which we have now released on our own request. He sat with the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs for hundreds of hours. However, even more so, at the same time, namely during the IX Riigikogu, Villu Kõve worked here in the Riigikogu. He represented the preparatory work on the draft Law of Obligations Act. And I don't know how to count these hours. In the last Riigikogu, the method of standard drafting of drafts is generally called rubber stamp, so that what comes from the government becomes a law, even more or less always unchanged. Unfortunately, this was not yet the case in the IX Riigikogu, so I would like to draw attention to it. The second thing is that if Villu Kõve is one of those lawyers who got into the winds of the university during independence, it is even more important to note that he was one of those young lawyers at the time they were young, now they are middle-aged, who started dealing with private law. Private law, as a branch of law, did not exist at all in Soviet times. And it is even more important to say that part of private law, namely contract law or obligation law, did not exist in this form in the Republic of Estonia before the war. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U30	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U31	Until the end of the independence of this republic, the respective laws of the Russian Empire were in force and not even attempted to introduce contract law, which was like the last part of the very large process of accepting Roman law in Northern Europe, including Estonia. Villu Kõve has been one of the most important actors in this process, to a large extent its promoter and leader. In this sense, I am very pleased that, in a certain way, there is some general philosophical justice here, that for those people who do their job well and productively, life must also give the opportunity to carry out the following important tasks. Some time has passed in Estonia, a transitional period in the knowledge of lawyers, their preparation and typical fates. I conclude by the fact that I am very pleased that fate has also given me the opportunity to see this process happening from its beginning to its present state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U32	Thank you, Mr. Adams! There are no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 796. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? I shall put to the vote the secret draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Villiu Kõve', submitted by the President of the Republic, Kersti Kaljulaid, for the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court' 796. Please take a stand and vote. There were 65 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the draft decision, no against, no abstentions 1, no participation in the draft decision. The decision has been passed, i.e. Villu Kõve has been appointed Chairman of the Supreme Court. Congratulations! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U33	Ladies and gentlemen, Let's go to the third item on today's agenda. Second reading of Riigikogu members Raivo Aegi, Ants Laaneotsa, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Priit Sibula, Maire Aunaste, Uno Kaskpeiti, Arno Silla, Raivo Põljaru, Henn Põlluaasa, Martin Helme, Andres Metsoja, Ain Lutsep, Krista Aru, Artur Talvik, Enn Mere, Jaanus Karilaidi, Dmitri Dmitrijev, Mart Helme, Madis Milling, Meelis Mälberg, Peep Aru, Toomas Väinaste, Helmut Hallemaa, Aivar Koka, Hardi Volmer, Tiit Terik, Anneli Oti, Märt Sultsi, Toomas Pauri, Enn Esmaa, Valeri Korbi, Toomas Vitsut, Kübaritsera and Johannes Kerdi's Act on the application of the Defence Forces Service Act and Amending Law 667. I ask for a chair of the Vice-Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee, Uno Kaskpeiti.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U34	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I will introduce the procedure in the lead committee between first and second readings. The first reading took place on 8 November at the end of last year and by the deadline for submitting amendments, no amendments were tabled in the Riigikogu by 22 November. The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the draft for the preparation of the second reading at three meetings, two of which were representatives of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the PBPA. Johannes Kert, Member of the Riigikogu, representative of the initiators of the draft act, participated in all discussions. At its meeting on 21 and 22 January, the Commission decided to propose two amendments to the draft. One of them concerned the wording of § 2 'amendment of the Police and Border Guard Act' of the draft, while the provisions originally proposed in the draft are replaced by a new section. The amendment was developed and submitted to the Committee on Legal Affairs by the Ministry of Internal Affairs together with a comprehensive explanatory note. The Committee on Legal Affairs initiated the proposals proposed by the Ministry of the Interior by consensus. The second amendment concerned the wording of § 3 of the draft and provides for the entry into force of the Act on 1 January 2020. At its meeting on 29 January, the Commission examined the new version of the proposals and the explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal and specified the wording of the amendment order to the introductory phrase of Paragraph 1 (1) of the draft. Now, to be exact. On 21 January, Raivo Aeg presented the content of the initiative and explained that during the economic downturn, in 2009, the wage rate of some types of public service fell by 8%. Wage cuts were accompanied by a promise to restore wages when the economic downturn ends. By the end of 2015, the salaries of the PBGB had been restored. In the past, the special pensions of the PBGB and the Defence Forces were linked to wages, but after wage cuts, pensions were indexed, and many retired policemen's pensions were based on 8% lower wages. In other areas, the cost of pensions was not reduced. Johannes Kert introduced the proposed amendments to the draft law implementing the Defence Forces Service Act. He explained that what happened in the PBA also happened in the Defence Forces during the recession, and in 2009 wages were reduced. On 1 April 2013, pensions were deducted from salaries and old grade salaries were neither applicable nor comparable. A day later, salaries were raised from a depressive level to a new level, and the retired members of the Defence Forces continued to receive a pension from an old lower grade. The representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs explained that after the members of the Riigikogu took into account our proposal to extend the target group of the amendment to the Police and Border Guard Act, we support the draft. Jaanus Karilaid proposed to refer the draft to second reading by 31 January with a proposal to terminate the second reading of the draft and, if the second reading is completed, to carry out the third reading of the draft on 12 February. The Commission unanimously supported the proposal. On 28 and 29 January, the version and explanations of the amendments submitted by the Ministry of the Interior were reviewed. On 29 January, a change specifying the consensus was initiated and the introductory part of Paragraph 1 (1) of the draft was worded as follows:'(1) Paragraph 38 (4) is amended and worded as follows: 'A person whose term of service was extended beyond the prescribed limit shall, in the event of a retirement from the service of the Defence Forces of 13 years, be entitled to an active pension of 50 per cent of the amount of his pension calculation. ''The Committee on Legal Affairs made a decision to take full account of it and the decision was consensual. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U35	Thank you, Mr Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs. You have at least one question. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft law on several occasions. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, were those points of the draft law that gave rise to differences of opinion, to more disputes, to different views, or to all consensual consensus?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U37	There were generally no differences of opinion. Some questions were raised by those who were unaware of the particularities of this service and pension. They were clarified and it can generally be said that all decisions were taken by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U38	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! We know that the Government of the Republic did not support the draft, and it does not come as a surprise, because this is usually the case when members of the Riigikogu initiate drafts, this support may not be self-evident. Could you please specify what the arguments were as to why the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence did not support this draft? Because it is actually an important change for these two ministries.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U40	In the course of this procedure they finally supported. At first they did not support it, but afterwards they made improvements themselves, and all this became coordinated with the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U41	Thank you, Mr. Kaskpeit! You don't seem to have any more questions. I'm opening negotiations. No callers, I'll close the negotiations. We will examine the amendments which are all proposed by the commission and the position of the commission is to take full account of them. The first amendment, the second amendment and the third amendment. We have examined all the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 667. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U42	Let's go to the fourth item on the agenda. Second reading of the draft Act amending the Social Benefits for Disabled Persons Act, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. I would like the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Helmen Hunt, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U43	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! I will give an overview of what took place in the Committee on Social Affairs. A little reminder. On 13 June, the Group of the Estonian Free Party initiated the draft Act amending the Social Benefits for Persons with Disabilities Act 663. The first reading was completed on 8 November. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on 22 November 2018, but no amendments were tabled at that time. After completion of the first reading of the draft, the Committee on Social Affairs met at three meetings to discuss the draft and prepare the second reading: i.e. a on 21, 24 and 28 January 2005. I can tell you immediately that an emergency meeting had been convened on 28 January. On Monday, 21 January, Deputy Chancellor Rait Kuuse and Head of Child Welfare Policy Signe Riisalo took part in the Social Affairs Committee meeting. Within this point procedure, I also gave the Commission an overview of what has happened so far. Monika Haukanõm added to me and said that support for children with disabilities has not been raised for years, the draft aims to double the social allowance for children with medium and severe disabilities and triple the allowance for children with deep disabilities. He provided the sums that would result from this change. The amount of the new allowance would be EUR 138,8 for children with medium-term disabilities, EUR 161,10 for children with severe disabilities and EUR 241,65 for children with severe disabilities. Monika Haukanõm added that when comparing data as at 1 January 2019 and as at 1 January 2017, the total number of children has increased by 47 children. The number of children with medium-term disability has fallen from 5,000 children to 4369 children, while the number of children with severe and deep disability has increased. There are currently 7765 children with severe disabilities, while in 2017 there were 7164, and there are 809 children with severe disabilities as of 1 January 2019. There were 732 in 2017. Next, Signe Riisalo and Rait Kuuse gave an overview of what the Ministry thought of this draft. Rait Kuuse noted that indeed, the disabled child's allowance has been consistently of the same size. At the same time, the adoption of this draft will have an impact on the state budget with this change alone, with an increase of EUR 13.5 million and a total annual allowance for children with disabilities of 26,3 million. The Ministry does not deny the need to increase the allowance, but considers that, if we discuss it, we could talk above all about raising the benefits for children with a deep disability. The Ministry also intends to meet with disabled people's organisations and discuss how the reorganisation of disability benefits and services could be approached. There was also talk about the administrative reform and the idea that the Ministry of Finance has made, namely which subsidies and services provided by the state could be passed on to local authorities, so that autonomy and strength would also be gained. The Ministry of Social Affairs has been asked questions as to whether special care could be part of local governments in the future, up to whether the disability benefits as a whole could be more of a local government solution. The Ministry has planned to provide the government with an analysis of the possibility of improving the system of disability benefits, including its transfer to local authorities. Signe Riisalo presented a study on the management and needs of families of children with disabilities. For those of you who are more interested, I suggest that you read the Social Affairs Committee's minutes, where it is very carefully mentioned. As Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, I asked whether the two studies were somewhat contradictory. The parents of disabled children were also present at the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs, who carried out the study themselves, specifically among the parents of disabled children, and this is indeed different from the results obtained by the Ministry of Social Affairs. Liina Kersna asked how much the state contributes to the services provided to children with disabilities. He pointed out that, in principle, services could be provided by local governments, but there are certain prerequisites for providing services, and one of them is certainly that social workers often have special education there, too, people who do not have an education in this field. Rait Kuuse said that last summer, the Social Insurance Board began transmitting data to local governments, and this has led to a situation where help reaches the child better. I asked whether the Ministry had an overview of which municipalities had applied for grants from the European Social Fund and how much has been asked. I noted that children with disabilities live across Estonia in very different municipalities and do not actually receive the services they need, as well as that the price increase that took place on 1 January, especially for services, has also increased their participation rates in several municipalities. Rait Kuuse replied that it was not a direct decision to give them to all local authorities, but it was also true that different municipalities are indeed applying for money in very different ways from the European Social Fund. Since the regulations are different, there are different situations in which even disabled carers are appointed. Maris Lauri felt that many things could still change in local governments as a result of administrative reform, so there should be no time lag when local governments were smaller and their capacity was different, including the lack of specialists. I also made a request to the Ministry of Social Affairs, as chairman of the committee, to get an overview of the use of the money in 2018. And 10 minutes before the end of the meeting of the committee, i.e. before the end of the meeting of the committee, I announced that as the time for the regular sitting of the committee is 11 to 13, the members of the committee must decide whether to continue the debate on the draft 15 minutes longer, taking into account that there are no members in our committee who should participate at the same time in the Committee on European Union Affairs, on a special or investigative committee or on a problem committee. Liina Kersna suggested that a hearing be held 15 minutes longer or as long as necessary, because it may not take 15 minutes, it will be a shorter time. The Committee on Social Affairs unanimously agreed to continue the debate. Liina Kersna asked whether, at the end of this month, if the government were to discuss what tasks to be assigned to local authorities and what not, the Commission would also be able to examine this analysis. He drew attention to the same claim that studies carried out by parents of disabled children pointed out that parents of disabled children often lack information about their rights, precisely because they have a child with special needs. As chairman of the committee, I added that this study also states that the current level of support no longer corresponds to the cost of living, the cost of transport has increased, as have the rates of participation in services and the rental prices of aid instruments. Rait Kuuse replied that it was possible to read the analysis and that it would also give a full view. As chairman of the committee, I spoke about the need to ease the situation of families with children with disabilities. The increase in subsidies does not prevent the development of services, and the development of services in turn is not in conflict with the increase in subsidies. The situation of families raising children with deep disabilities is more difficult, but it is very difficult to favour one group over another, causing very high pressure to determine the severity of the disability and also a very large difference in the amount of benefits. Liina Kersna agreed that if you prefer only to increase the support of a child with a deep disability, as the Ministry of Social Affairs proposes or wishes to discuss, the differences in benefits would really be unfairly large. He asked what real opportunities the Commission had in the past 40 days before the elections to make such financial decisions. If the Commission decides on the amount proposed in the draft increase, it will have an impact on the budget of EUR 13.5 million. How can such a decision be taken in the middle of a financial year? As Chairman of the Commission, I noted that it is certainly not conceivable to put such an obligation in 2019, and I proposed what the Commission could consider, namely, the amendment would enter into force on 1 January 2020. Maris Lauri replied that he did not object to the rise in subsidies, especially as regards children with deep disabilities and, to a certain extent, with severe disabilities. The question arises with medium-disabled children, as it has also been pointed out that even parents assessed needs differently. Maris Lauri said that he did not object to the principle, but considers that at the moment such a solution is not reasonable in the Commission's decision. Jüri Jaanson thought that content issues were not a problem, but since the entry into force of the law is only real in 2020, the new Riigikogu should take a decision. Ms Haukanõm said that since the draft had been launched during its membership, there could be a desire and a willingness to express it by voting. Children's costs are higher in families with special needs. The services are available, but there is still a high level of ownership. As chairman of the committee, I thought that since the draft had been introduced during the current composition of the Riigikogu, the Commission should complete its proceedings. The fact is that these grants have not been changed for 13 years and have been insufficient. If the benefits are paid until the child reaches the age of 16, we have the fear that the family will live in excessive wealth, even after the increase in the allowance. Maris Lauri pointed out that these things should be viewed in a complex way, he is not convinced that the percentages indicated in the draft are correct and appropriate, and therefore need to be discussed more. Maris Lauri also proposed that the same committee meeting, which took place on 21 January, should not yet be voted on, because the subject still needs to be negotiated in the group, and he also wanted to have an overview of the Ministry's review and proposals. Jüri Jaanson also opposed the vote because the time for the Commission's regular sitting was over. As chairman of the committee, I put to the vote who is in favour of voting on amendments at the same sitting. Viktor Vassilyev, Monika Haukanõm, Oudekki Loone, Igor Kravchenko and Liina Kersna, Maris Lauri and Jüri Jaanson were in favour of the proposal. I put the amendment to the vote. Mr Lauri pointed out that he felt that the vote was not legitimate. He said: 'The agreement was to extend the session for 15 minutes, now it has become longer and in this connection please withdraw my participation in the session. ' The amendment, however, was in favour of Helmen Küttt, Viktor Vassiliev, Monika Haukanõm, Oudekki Loone, Igor Kravchenko, and Raivo Põldaru. No one opposed the amendment, nor was there any abstentions. Jüri Jaanson requested the opinion of the Legal and Analytical Department on whether voting outside the regular session of the committee complies with the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. So, we got this legal analysis. At this point, I would like to thank Jüri Jaanson very much, because this legal analysis is certainly a lesson for other committees, too, to the new Riigikogu, because now the questions have been asked and you, the good fellows who will continue in the new Riigikogu, are aware of this. Indeed, the legal analysis states that the regular meeting of the Commission will take place from 11 to 13 unless otherwise agreed in advance. True, ten minutes before 1 p.m., I proposed this agreement as chairman of the committee, and everyone agreed to proceed consensually. However, since we did not convene an emergency meeting and did not make any changes to the agenda, we found that, in order to make matters clearer in the future and to ensure that the procedure for the draft was correct, we would call an extraordinary meeting on 24 January. The extraordinary session began at 11.15 a.m. and ended at 12 a.m. That is where I gave the Members of the Commission an overview of the situation that was given to us as a legal analysis. It was sent to everyone before. Mr Lauri wanted to discuss the subject before voting on the amendments. He noted that the Ministry carried out a very thorough review of the Commission at the previous meeting and answered the questions raised by the members of the Commission, but the choice of such a solution was unclear. The Ministry, as we know, said that it was ready to raise the support of a child with a deep disability. Nobody's gonna mind, but there's gonna be questions about the rest. Maris Lauri proposed that we discuss raising the support for children with deep disabilities in the way that the draft letter states that the support for children with severe disabilities is to be increased slightly less and the allowance for children with medium-term disabilities is to be significantly less than proposed in the draft. As chairman of the committee, I pointed out that the Commission was discussing the draft submitted by the Free Party Group. No amendments were tabled within the deadline for amendments. Although services will come in the future, unfortunately, the current situation is that these services are not available to many because of the small size of this support. The only amendment proposed by the Commission was that the law would enter into force on 1 January 2020. The rates of support have not been changed; we are still discussing the draft proposed in this way. Monika Haukanõm added that the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People held a debate on changes in disability policy, which also wants to go to government, precisely as regards the transfer to local governments, but it takes years to realise the plans. The transfer of grants and services to local authorities can only take place once the relevant conditions have been created, but they do not exist at the moment. Monika Haukanõm recalled what happened to the care allowance or the transfer of replacement care to local authorities. Mr Jaanson said that an alternative amendment had been drafted, which we would like to consider. Unfortunately, as chairman of the committee, I had to point out that the members of the committee had not seen this amendment. We continued to discuss the amendment, which concerns only the deadline for the entry into force of the draft to 1 January 2020. No other proposal had been sent in advance to any of the Members of the Commission, nor had it been distributed at the beginning of the sitting. Mr Lauri explained that it was a desire to put forward an idea and that, when other members of the Commission were prepared to discuss different rates, it would also be distributed. He stressed that no one has said that there is opposition to the increase in subsidies. I asked the Members of the Commission whether they wanted to discuss this amendment, which, indeed, none of the members of the Commission, other than the three members of the Reform Party, had seen. Marika Tuus-Laul said that it was not advisable to discuss more about the amounts and rates of grants, as this topic has been discussed for a long time. As chairman of the committee, I put the amendment to the vote, which concerned these rates and their entry into force on 1 January 2020. We had a vote on the nominations, all of the members of the committee who took part in the meeting....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I voted on the point that 1 January 2020 should be the date of entry into force. Jüri Jaanson felt that it would not be necessary to vote, as everyone is probably in favour of it too. Indeed, we unanimously decided that the date of entry into force of the draft would be 1 January 2020. And procedural decisions: to place the draft on the plenary agenda by 31 January, today, to propose the termination of the second reading and, when the second reading is closed, to send the draft to third reading by 13 February, as well as to hold a final vote. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U44	Thank you, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Helmen Küttt. There's a question for you too. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! First of all, I would like to thank the Commission for its very thorough procedure and work on this draft. It seems that when the position of the Reform Party became more vague during the procedure, the position of the Ministry became more supportive. But still, I'm reading some objections in this explanatory memorandum. The problems need to be looked at more broadly. I'm about to remember that story about the family doctor that we recently found a solution to. There was also an argument that the world as a whole or as a whole must be resolved and improved. Please tell me if I am making an unfair generalisation when I say that solving problems is often behind looking for a complex and comprehensive solution, but not really starting in any corner. Are there still such problems in practice in the Committee on Social Affairs? Wouldn't it be better to start solving them piece by piece?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U46	Thank you very much for the question that has been asked. I am here today, unfortunately or, fortunately, a Commission waitress. It would, of course, be easy for me to reply to you that this matter was not discussed by the Commission at its meeting. However, I am saying so much that, thanks to your question, I can also say no to the very important decision in terms of the verbatim report that on Monday, 28 January, we had another Social Affairs Committee meeting at which we approved and approved the procedural documents. So that's how he's gonna be here tonight. As far as your question is concerned, I can say from the outset that I have actually had the great fortune to lead the Committee on Social Affairs, because we have generally had very constructive discussions there. We have not had to discuss and vote in this way, I don't know, in a worldview or in a party very often. We have tried to pursue both social policy and health policy, but there are different ways of getting there. Indeed, the government's position on this draft was not supportive, but the government acknowledged that subsidies have remained unreasonablely low, in the way of time and 13 years is indeed a long time. After our debate and before the vote, the Ministry also came up with the idea that if subsidies were to be increased, we should talk about the increase in support for children with a deep disability at the current EUR 80. But there was a clear consensus in the Commission that, by increasing only one type of support, we are creating a very unequal situation, because the amounts of other forms of support are still very low. Currently, the allowance for an average disabled child is EUR 69 with cents and for a child with severe and profound disability is EUR 80. Now, if only to raise this support for a child with a deep disability, we will create an even greater problem. It is also true that the Ministry has identified figures and financial allocations and activities for both rehabilitation and the expansion of aids, but this does not change the fact that the actual situation is currently such that families across Estonia are able to cope very differently. If you take your example or question, I will be able to get there in a distant curve: we also found in the Commission that it is important to give people at least the opportunity to buy additional services within the limits of this money for these children, because the level of ownership has risen, but the subsidies have remained the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U47	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Social Affairs Committee, thank you for handling this draft and also for today's review. As you have listened quite carefully, I would like to clarify just one thing on the question. Is the plan of the Ministry of Social Affairs to now hand over several services to local governments still in the process of being developed? Is there a pilot project planned here? What's the schedule anyway? Or is it more of a word-only idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U49	Thank you. We also asked the Ministry the same question, rather the Ministry explained the situation. The Committee on Social Affairs has previously met a great deal of the associated organisation of cities and rural municipalities, where they have found that sometimes the money for services and grants transferred, which seems initially to cover, as it later turns out, is not sufficient. There is a difficulty in organising work, even in providing school education or hiring support specialists concerning children with special needs, as well as, for example, replacement care. They have also come to the Commission to talk about their concerns and the need for the Ministry to deal with this problem. The transfer of informal care, or carer support, to local authorities also actually led to a very different determination depending on the place of residence. If it was on the state's side on some uniform basis across Estonia, then according to the local governments, I am not saying that it is still a very different option for people who are wrong to become a carer and thus have a health fund insurance. Because the support is very non-existent anyway, whether it is 25 or 40 euros. I give a good example of the city of Viljandi, where the support of the guardian of a disabled child rose to 140 euros. However, this is also the case in view of the fact that taxes are paid according to the minimum wage and insurance is actually very low when you have to be at home with that child. The Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry Rait Kuuse spoke and we also have a well-documented protocol that, before the administrative reform of the municipalities, the idea that the Ministry of Finance has carried out was that which services provided and offered by the state could be transferred to local governments in order to increase their strength, autonomy and decision-making powers. And it is now very important that they have already submitted this analysis to the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Ministry of Social Affairs has been asked whether special care, which is currently only a state organisation, could go to local authorities in the future, until whether the disability benefits as a whole could rather be solved by local authorities. I understood that the Commission's spirit is largely like this, although we did not put it under discussion like this, it came out of the questions that have been asked, that until this system is ready to deal with it, there must be no further confusion and, in addition, the possibility of receiving services and benefits due to the place of residence. This analysis has been presented to the government, and we are asking for it also to be presented in the Committee on Social Affairs. Does the government decide anything? I don't think so. He will examine the analysis and it will probably remain on the next Riigikogu desk. However, my personal opinion as a social worker, which I am now saying here, probably by abusing the time of the Commission's waitress, is that both special care, child benefits and disability benefits should still remain for families, they will be paid into people's current accounts. And these decisions are made by the family on the basis of the child's special needs or on the basis of the possibility to receive services. I certainly do not think it right for such services to be handed over to local governments. I have worked there myself for 20 years, but they are not all ready for it. Maybe someday.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U50	Thank you, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee Helmen Kütt. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. George Jaanson, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U51	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to begin by thanking Helmen Kütt, our Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, who here made a very thorough overview of the whole process of the procedure. The procedure for this draft was one that we all had quite a lot to learn about. Perhaps I should also comment on what Mr Herkel said that the position of the Reform Party is certainly not confusing, but rather clear. But then I'll get my point of view. Raising social benefits for children with disabilities in the framework of this draft is important. In particular, it is important to emphasise the need to increase the benefits for children with deep disabilities, as the minimum needs arising from disability are long greater than the amount of the allowance allows. I am sorry that the draft proposed by the Free Party did not find the government's support. There have also been no discussions on this in the context of the country's budgetary strategy, or they have been unsuccessful. The current draft raises subsidies for children with disabilities on a universal basis, although aid needs vary strongly. However, it can and must be pointed out here that, in the case of equal benefits, support for families with children with disabilities is not and will never be equal. A way out of the situation would be to clarify the actual needs of children and a need-based approach to cover the need for assistance. Studies show that the variation in the need for assistance for disabled children in one month is around EUR 150 for medium and severe disability, while for deep disability it amounts to EUR 220. The current allowance for children with medium and severe disabilities currently exceeds the actual minimum needs for assistance, while children with severe disabilities are again strongly behind it. This shows that families of children with a very deep disability are really in a critical state in terms of support and that their benefits need to be increased. Also, raising subsidies to the rates set out in the current draft does not help a large part of the families of children with disabilities to a sufficient extent. I would like to refer once again to the actual circumstances and the question of whether the universality of subsidies is justified. Raising subsidies will bring an additional cost to the state budget of EUR 13.5 million per year, but this is not the biggest concern since these children and families really need help. I would like to emphasise once again: the biggest concern is that the resource often does not go in a targeted way, but in a universal way, and it also moves to a place where it is not needed or is not needed in the volume given by the state. This resource can actually be better exploited. On the other hand, the state has foreseen a considerable increase in resources to support children with disabilities in recent years. Over the last few years, the budget for rehabilitation services and aids has been supported by millions of euros, and every year the child care, support and transport services for children with severe and deep disabilities are covered. In addition, 18 million have been allocated to providing support services for children with special educational needs. The problems are, of course, elsewhere. We have a shortage of specialists that we are trying to compensate to some extent by offering grants, but that is not enough. I would like to say that there has been little of this, because families of a disabled child do not receive sufficient help from authorities, municipalities or the state. The Reform Party Group considers that an increase in subsidies with the current draft is necessary, but far from sufficient and not the best step to address the problems of families with children with disabilities. We are of the opinion that we must make an effort to reform the system of children with disabilities to ensure the quality and adequacy of services, but also to ensure that all those in need receive the necessary support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U52	Thank you, Jüri Jaanson! Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U53	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am before you for the third time with the draft amendment to the Social Benefits Act for persons with disabilities and will not therefore repeat what has already been said. However, I would like to express my pleasure at this point that we have reached second reading. We have a reasonable expectation of reaching a third reading within this Riigikogu, in cooperation and contribution by all of you, to change the benefits for disabled children, which have remained at the same level for 13 years. Of course, there is a legitimate question as to why, in this way, we did not take the initiative of the Riigikogu, not the Government of the Republic, to raise subsidies. Why is the draft just such an indication that we will double the support for children with medium and severe disabilities and triple the support for children with deep disabilities? Answer to the first question. The Government of the Republic and the Minister in charge should raise subsidies and come up with this proposal, but in May 2018 it became apparent that this was unfortunately not planned in the budgetary strategy of the country for the next four years. There was therefore no choice but to settle it on the proposal of the Riigikogu. This is also the reason why the draft was submitted in June 2018, not earlier. The answer to the second question. Is the proposed solution fair or justified? Yes, it is true, there are two studies on our desk, the first of which was carried out by the Ministry of Social Affairs and the parents of the other disabled children. Both studies found that support for additional costs is currently insufficient, but the results differed widely and were quite different. Well, the truth is somewhere between the two. There are those who do not spend the full amount specifically to cover additional costs due to disability, but there are also a large number of those whose support still needs to be multiplied. The bigger question and the debate was about medium-disabled children, i.e. whether their support needs to be doubled or a little less. However, this issue did not arise at all in the case of children with deep disabilities, and all parties agreed that a triple increase is justified. If the need for support is so different, do we need universal support instead of the current so-called universal support? Yeah. If we made support needs-based, we would be better able to assess its need and pay more precisely, but this will inevitably involve red tape again, and already troubled parents will have to start collecting cheques and proving their expenses again. This has to be done monthly and in this case continuously. On the other hand, you have to start proving your income in order to show whether this support is still necessary. Thirdly, does the support that is given go to a disabled child, is it done for him, or does it benefit someone else? My clear view is that this one public support must remain universal and that the cost of every child does not need to be chased by an eagle. There has also been a note of concern as to whether we can expect an increase in the so-called applications for grants if support is increased in a planned way. Yes, in fact, the greater risk of applying is quite real, but we have expert doctors who value disability, and they must be able to distinguish between a real needy and a tester. Evaluation has become much more accurate over the years, and, I would say, at times even harsher, because no one is very easily disabled anymore. Because of the risk of abuse, not all those in real need can be punished. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U54	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U55	Then why should we still raise subsidies? You all know that the subsidies have gotten in the way of time. Raising is not a key message, but just as important is that we give a very clear signal to parents by increasing support. This means that the state notices and values the contribution of families to raising and developing their children with disabilities. With this step, we will give the parents of disabled children confidence and a clear message: we have not forgotten you. It is therefore not just about money, but about the attitude of the state towards children with disabilities. The question also arises as to whether, after this draft has been adopted as a law, we can say 'It has been done! ' and to rest on the laurels. I can't. Because support is only one small part of ensuring the livelihood of children and families. Apart from universal public support, it is important to improve the availability of services to support children's development and livelihood in the vicinity of the child's place of residence and school, on the basis of an assessed individual need. This means that the provision of our assistance must become a tailor-made suit from a mass production-based approach. Only in this way will we get the best result, which will ensure that the child gets exactly the help he needs, not the services he is able to provide, and the amount that will ultimately not help anyone. To this end, however, each level must fulfil its role. The state pays universally a subsidy, which must become indexed every year, like the old-age pension and the capacity to work, so that we do not forget it again for 13 years to the same level. As a result of the administrative reform, larger and, hopefully, increasingly capable local authorities will provide the necessary services, from personal helper to home care. In education, which is one of the greatest prerequisites for self-sufficiency, we have adopted the principle of inclusive education. This is a very correct approach, but it is not so easy to implement, because we have important preconditions that are not fulfilled. This means that we do not yet have the necessary logos, specialized teachers, psychologists, etc. for support personnel of sufficient volume, and also our teachers, who deal with special children, need the necessary training and skills to work with these children. So far, we have acted with great consequences, and early notice and assistance at an early stage has not been our strongest. It needs a mindset, as well as a change of laws, i.e. help must be provided immediately when problems arise in the initial phase, not to expect serious problems in coping. This was not a final list, but a few examples that need to be done in the near future. The need to increase support is beyond doubt, but it is not the only challenge. So let's keep working. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U56	Thank you, Mrs. Hawkhamm! Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U57	Mr President! I definitely don't need three more minutes. I would first of all like to thank the Commission for its work on this draft and also the previous speaker, whose role in this draft was, however, very decisive and important. As far as the proposed solutions are concerned, they certainly seem to be smart, with a deep degree of disability, three times the increase in subsidies, two times the increase in lower levels. I believe that the Committee on Social Affairs has carefully considered everything. It seems to me, too, that subsidies should be universal, not too much binding bureaucracy. There will certainly now be a place where you can see how things could go in Estonia in such a way that all benefits, children's benefits etc. will rise, but one type of support, disabled children's support will just stand still as of 2006. And if I now generalise this area myself, especially without knowing what other things are under the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs, but come to us in this form, taking up any more trouble with the SKIAIS2 and getting chronically expensive, then I have to draw this conclusion: it seems to me that the Ministry of Social Affairs has been mismanaged over the years. The more the Social Affairs Committee intervenes, the better. I am sure to thank the current chairman of the committee, perhaps the next member of the Social Affairs Committee, whoever this person is, for his strength. Such interventions are necessary and, on behalf of the initiator, I hope that we will indeed be able to adopt this draft as a law within the time remaining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U58	Thank you, Andres Herkel! There are no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. There is also one amendment to the draft, which is from the lead committee, which we will examine. The position of the commission is to take this fully into account. We have examined the amendment and the second reading of draft 663 has also been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U59	Let's go to the fifth or last item on the agenda. This is the first reading of draft Act 791 on the Accession of Hong Kong to the International Convention on Safe and Environmentally Sound Recycling of Ships initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'd like the Secretary of the Environment, Siim Kisler, to wait for the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U60	Honourable manager! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The entry into force of the International Convention on the Safe and Environmentally Sound Recycling of Hong Kong Ships requires the accession of 15 countries with a total tonnage of 40% of the total tonnage of ships worldwide. In order to speed up the implementation of the Hong Kong Convention, the European Parliament and the Council have adopted a regulation on ship recycling in 2013. This regulation of the European Union largely duplicates the obligations under the Convention and is directly applicable, so the requirements of the Regulation are, in fact, already being met in Estonia. We need to join the Convention to reduce the environmental impact of ship dismantling and improve the safety conditions associated with its activities globally. The need for regulation is due to the fact that ship recycling can have a negative impact on both the environment and human health. For example, a treatment vessel may contain environmentally hazardous substances such as asbestos, heavy metals, fossil fuel residues and substances harmful to the ozone layer. This Convention requires shipowners to draw up a list of hazardous materials on board, to apply for a certificate of hazardous materials, and to be recycled in safe and environmentally sound facilities. According to the ship's register, there are currently 39 ships in Estonia which are required to comply with the requirements of the Convention. In addition, the Convention contains requirements for ship recycling facilities. Recycling sites shall ensure that methods are used that do not cause adverse effects on humans and the environment. Hazardous waste from recycling must be handled safely and environmentally. Estonia is the only place that meets the recycling requirements, a ship repair plant located in the port of Russian-Baltic. The draft Act on the ratification of the Convention has been drafted in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, as well as the Labour Inspectorate. In conclusion, it can be said that accession to the Convention and its entry into force are a prerequisite for ship recycling outside the European Union to take place in an environmentally sound manner as we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U61	Thank you, Minister. You don't seem to have any questions. Please speak to Meelis Mälberg, member of the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U62	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, who are still in the Chamber! The Government of the Republic initiated the Act of Accession of Hong Kong to the International Convention on Safe and Environmentally Sound Recycling of Ships on 10 January 2019. Kaspar Anderson, Chief Specialist of the Marine Environment Department of the Ministry of the Environment, was invited to the meeting of the Environment Committee on 22 January. As the Minister has already said, the objective of this convention is to reduce the environmental impact of ship dismantling and to improve the safety conditions associated with its activities globally. In short, simplified so that old ships are not carried randomly to some port in Asia, and then, without taking into account any conditions, they will not be disbanded. Let it be said that today most of the world's ships are being demolished in five countries. In order for the Convention to enter into force, it needs to be ratified by at least 15 countries and the total tonnage of ships is 40% of the total tonnage of ships worldwide. To date, Panama, Belgium, Congo, Norway, Denmark and France have ratified the Convention. At its meeting, the Committee on the Environment took the following decisions: to appoint Meelis Mälberg, member of the Committee on the Environment, as rapporteur for the draft 791, to propose that the first reading be put on the agenda of the Riigikogu by 31 January 2019, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments to the draft 791 be set at 4 p.m. on 7 February 2019. The Committee on the Environment made all these decisions in a consensual manner.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U63	Good waitress, Meelis Mälberg! There's a question for you. The fruit of Thomas.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U64	Thank you. Good waitress! You mentioned ships are being dismantled in five countries. What could they be? Has Estonia also demolished any ships and where we basically dismantle our ships?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U65	I have to say right away that the Ministry is very well prepared for this bill, the explanatory memorandum is very good and, although it is specific, it was quite interesting to read. And the explanatory memorandum shows that these five countries are Bangladesh, China, India, Pakistan and Turkey. They dismantle 97% of the world's ships. Bangladesh has a 36% market share and India has 47% market share. Experts estimate that it is in India that the best places for scrapping applied to technical and environmental requirements are the best. Pakistan is the worst in meeting these requirements or conditions. European Union vessels are mostly dismantled in Turkey, Pakistan or India.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-31_U66	Mr Mälberg, Member of the Committee on the Environment, thank you for your thorough presentation. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 791. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 791 amendments, including 7 February at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. The sitting is adjourned. Happy Thursday! [[???Hääl saalist: 'Suur tänu! Kena päeva jätku teile ka!'???]] Closure of the sitting at 11.46 a.m.
