ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will start the 10th working week Thursday session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. On behalf of the board, I am prepared to accept inquiries and draft laws. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U2	Good morning, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of some members of the Reform Party, as well as myself, I will report an inquiry to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. The point is that on Monday, the Riigikogu had first reading of the draft law amending the law on funded pensions and related other laws. When answering questions from members of the Riigikogu on pension issues, Minister of Finance Martin Helme described how he hired a working man for the construction of Urmas in the construction of his house by means of a tax-free decree contract. The Minister of Finance also assured the Riigikogu that, as far as he knew, the builder had not worked for one day in such a way that taxes had been paid. The Minister has informed me that this contractor working under a command contract is absolutely not interested in what happens to his pension. Let these tax matters be settled between the Minister of Finance and the tax administration; we have questions for the Prime Minister mainly regarding pensions. We ask whether the situation in which the builder fails to pay taxes is fair. After all, all the rest of the taxpayers pay off the emergency medical care, other public services and, in the future, the pension for the builder who works exempt from tax. In future, the state will have to provide Urmas with at least a national pension, including health insurance, even if he has not contributed himself to collecting the pension. Does the Prime Minister consider it fair that the builder's people's pension, together with health insurance, must be paid by taxpayers who have not worked under a tax-free rule of law? There are a few more questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U3	There are no further inquiries or draft laws. So, let's see who we got. Incoming check, please! There's 77 of us out there. There's 24 missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U4	We can begin to deal with the items on the agenda. The first item is the second reading of the draft law amending the State Tax Act, the Identity Documents Act and the Consular Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Paul Puustusmaa, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to be before you here at the second reading of the State Tax Act, the Identity Documents Act and the Amendment of the Consular Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. As Minister Urmas Reinsalu said, this is a draft that has been developed in particular to cover the costs of receiving and issuing applications and using the postal service. The state fee for issuing documents is established in Estonian foreign representations and through the honorary consul, which has so far been a free service, i.e. it is a technical and, in a sense, an economic draft. The draft amends the rates of state fees for operations carried out at foreign representations and introduces new state fees for operations which have so far been unpaid. The amendment aims to bring the state fees for operations carried out in foreign representations into line with the actual costs. That's the purpose of this thing. The second reading was held in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 19 November, including. There were: myself, Paul Puustusmaa, as well as the members of the committee as Heiki Hepner Siim Kiisler's alternate member, Marek Jürgenson, Kalev Kallo, Erkki Keldo as an alternate member of Taavi Rõivas, Kert Kingo as an alternate member of Kalle Grünthal, Hanno Pevkur and Vilja Toomast. Mr Maiga Võsu, Director of the Consular Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Kristen Kanarik, Counsellor of the Citizenship and Migration Policy Department of the Ministry of Interior, and Mr Kaspar Lepper, Legal Adviser, were also invited. In particular, it was indeed a debate on very technical issues, as the meaning of the law had been discussed at first reading and a number of technical issues and amendments were addressed at second reading. After we had received an overview of what we did in the last sitting, we examined the amendments received. In principle, by 15 November, when the deadline for receiving amendments was set, no amendments had come from political groups or from individual members of the Riigikogu. However, there were editorial proposals that had been developed to make amendments to the law, which were indeed completely technical and related to a number of concepts. In total, the Commission had proposed seven amendments, six of which were adopted by consensus. There was no consensus on one occasion because Mr Pevkur was impartial, but the rest of the proposals were adopted by consensus. I will also give a simple overview of what were the main questions that arose. One question was about the second proposal, that is what Mr Pevkur took an impartial stance on. The amendment said that in § 272 (9) the figure '29' is replaced by '40'. As it is a monetary value, the question arose as to why so much is being increased. Kristen Kanarik explained that the current state fee law provides that 29 euros of the state fee will be paid for the examination of the application of the Estonian citizen's non-finger passport. Due to the fact that the process of producing a non-fingerprint passport does not differ from that of the travel document with biometric data, the national fee for examining the non-fingerprint passport is increased to EUR 40. This ensures that state fees are included in the cost-based component of the production process. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. On average, 66 passports are issued per year on the basis of the 2005 statistics, which means that the estimated budget revenue of the state fee is EUR 726 in this case. Hanno Pevkur argued that the difference in prices was once deliberately retained because not all people needed a passport with a chip. After all, people who do not travel and who simply wish to obtain identity documents do not need biometric passports. In addition, Kristen Kanarik replied that there was indeed this direction in our country, but the regulation in force in the European Union says that biometric travel documents must have been issued to all people. There was also a reference to a specific regulation in force in the European Union. Kert Kingo, for his part, commented that if people do not travel or need a passport, it is enough to use an ID card. As I said, all the other decisions on the amendments were consensual. Amendments are also available back there. Some questions were raised by Amendment 3, which was worded as follows: the examination of the return certificate, the return permit and the application for issuing the European Union return certificate... The concepts of why concepts such as a separate European Union return certificate, rather than a return document, have been introduced raised here. It is appropriate to highlight these differences, that we have different types of documents. Maiga Võsu explained that the draft had mistakenly included a terminological error at first. Indeed, the draft should use the term'return certificate to the European Union' rather than'return document'. I am now referring to the fact that there are four types of documents, as I said. We need to understand that there is a European travel document for return, which is one thing, and is used as a 'legal term'. It is intended for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals, it is issued without a person's request, for one-off departure from Estonia and for entry into the host country. Secondly, there is a European Union return certificate issued to a European Union citizen whose representation is not in the third country in which he is present and whose travel document has been lost, stolen or destroyed in foreign missions. The European Union return certificate shall be issued for a single journey to the Member State of nationality or residence. Thirdly, a return certificate issued to an Estonian citizen abroad whose travel document has become unusable, lost or destroyed. Mr Pevkur asked which term was used in the current law. Ms Võsu replied that the term 'European Union return certificate' was used in the current law and the'return travel document' written in the draft was merely a mistake. Of course, in the Commission, the question arose as to how such a mistake could, in principle, have occurred in the first place. This raised questions in both Hanno Pevkur and Vilja Toomas. Vilja Toomas agreed with Mr Pevkur's comment on the question of a strange mistake. After all, this is a very fundamental difference and such a mistake cannot happen if the law is amended. Vilja Toomas also expressed the opinion that if such a mistake came into the draft, then maybe it was the original position of the Minister, which was rejected by the officials. Mr Kingo stressed that since the Minister often has several documents in parallel work, such errors may occur, which is simply the case. Then there was the terminological question about Amendment No 6, which states that in § 271 (2) the word 'PIN code' is replaced by 'Security code'. Kristen Kanarik stated that the word 'PIN code' should be replaced by 'Security code' in the Consular Act, since the codes issued to a person do not only cover PIN codes but also PUK codes, depending on the contents of the card, may contain different codes, therefore all these codes are covered by the term 'Security code'. Hanno Pevkur wondered whether the concept of security code existed in the Identity Documents Act and asked to specify which terms were used in different laws. On that basis, we received the reply from the officials that the codes have not been marked at all in the Identity Documents Act and that, in addition, if the amendments were adopted, the law would include the term'security code' and this term would be used in the State Fees Act and the Consular Act. Following this, procedural decisions were taken. It was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 5 December, to propose the termination of the second reading and to propose that the draft be sent to third reading when the second reading is completed by 11 December 2019. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U6	Thank you. There are questions for the waitress. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U7	Thank you. Good Paul! Yeah, we had different debates. Indeed, the government considered it necessary to increase the various state fees during this procedure. Since the Minister of Foreign Affairs, at first reading, sincerely and with the mouth of the child, said that, of course, the purpose of this draft is to get money, maybe now, after the second reading, you will say away, together with the revised state fees, for the sake of the verbatim, how much more money will the government coalition collect from the Estonian people in the coming years as a result of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U8	I do not recall that the Commission has discussed the question of how much money is being taken away from people. However, the Commission repeatedly mentioned that the purpose of this draft law was to cover costs. At first reading, there was a situation where we asked how these costs were incurred and how many documents were issued that justified such costs. At the time, the official replied that in the previous year alone, the total number of operations relating to identity documents in foreign agencies was 52000 and that, since these operations were free of charge, it was clear that costs would arise. At second reading, we were talking about the cost of issuing passports. I think I said (I am not quite sure) that if the national fee was raised from EUR 29 to EUR 40, the estimated budget revenue would be EUR 726, which really will provide this cover. 66 passports are issued on average. There could be an impression that the extra revenue or additional revenue, which is, as is the case, being taken more, would be EUR 11. In this case, it could be said that 666 euros will be taken away from the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U9	Hanno Pevkur, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U10	I'm gonna help you out a little bit. If you also recall the first reading, this size is 1.6 million, which will be taken from the Estonian people by these changes in state fees. But I'm not even going to ask, I just wanted to say for the sake of the verbatim, that the sum is written.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U11	Thank you very much for your clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U12	Thanks to the waitress! No further questions. It is now possible to open negotiations. Anyone who wishes to do so can participate in the negotiations, but no one has so far expressed their wish. Consequently, I will conclude the negotiations and we will move on to the revision of the amendments. Seven amendments have been received for bill 78. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the lead committee has taken full account of it. The second amendment is similarly from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and has also been fully taken into account by the commission. The third amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. The fourth amendment is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. The fifth amendment is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. The sixth amendment is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and it has also been fully taken into account. The seventh amendment is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and is also fully taken into account by the commission. We have examined the draft 78 amendments and we have also completed the second reading of the draft. So this bill goes on to the third reading. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U13	We can move on to the next item. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the Alcohol Act initiated by the members of the Riigikogu Kalle Laaneti, Jürgen Ligi, Andrus Seed, Kristen Michali, Erkki Keldo, Annely Akkermanni, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, Urmas Kruuse, Vilja Toomasti, Jüri Jaansoni, Aivar Sõerdi, Ants Laaneots and Toomas Kivimägi. We're gonna start reading it first. I would like to ask Kalle Laaneti, Member of the Riigikogu, to speak here as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U14	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, As our former colleague, Rein Lang, always said when he came to this remote control: this is an extremely good bill. I would also say that this is an extremely good bill. And why? Because this bill gives local authorities greater opportunities to organise their lives better on their territory. What's the point of this bill? If, according to the law in force, the local government has the right to restrict the sales of alcohol from 10 a.m. to 6 a.m. on working days and from 00 a.m. to 7 a.m. on the night before the holidays, the purpose of this draft is to extend this right to 10 a.m. in the morning. Why till 10:00 in the morning? Because from 10 o'clock in the morning, anyone who has reached a certain age and has the means to do so will be able to buy alcoholic beverages from the store if they so wish. Very simple bill. I repeat: if the local authority considers it necessary to restrict the sale of alcohol at a time or in certain places, it is entitled to do so if this draft is, of course, adopted in this form. What do I want to stress? The Government as a whole gave up its opinion, but on 8 October 2019, for example, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications announced that it would support the draft. The Ministry of Finance says that it does not have any proposals for a draft law amending the Alcohol Act initiated by members of the Riigikogu, the Ministry of Social Affairs says that it supports this bill, and the Ministry of Rural Affairs has thought that the problem could actually be solved in the same way at the level of the law. But it seems to me that the Ministry of Rural Affairs has not fully understood what the purpose of this bill is. The purpose of this draft is simply to give local authorities a little broader rights, that's all. I'm ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U15	Thank you, dear waitress. There are questions for you. Valdo Randpere, first question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U16	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Have you also done an impact analysis for this draft and pointed out the magnitude of the impact that the implementation of such a draft could have on the collection of excise duties into the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U17	The impact assessment of the receipt of excise duties is not the subject of this draft. After all, the subject of this bill is that we simply give the local government the opportunity, if necessary, to limit alcohol sales in time or place. So we didn't think this analysis was necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U18	Siim Kiisler, a question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U19	Thank you. Honourable waitress! The content of this draft is to allow for further restrictions on the activities of businesses and people. I see that the drafters are members of a party that has called itself a liberal party. The performers include people such as Jürgen Ligi and Kristen Michal, who have certainly also presented themselves as liberals. How does the presentation of such a bill coincide with liberal values and human freedom?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U20	This draft absolutely coincides with these values, because in my opinion the most liberal and most important value is precisely to be able to live long and healthy and for everyone to feel well.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U21	Jürgen Ligi, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U22	Mr. Waitress! I mean, I don't think this bill will go through if I recall the great economic policy idea that carries the government's actions: more alcohol, this is Estonia's Nokia and economic growth! But the question was liberality, and I wanted to ask in that direction. I hate that kind of tagging. The argument is presented in some ideological direction, and that is the end of the debate. In my opinion, the law on law enforcement has dealt with this matter, and I myself am not a lawyer in any way, or in such a context. As a lawyer, would you like to comment a little on the municipal considerations? There is also the aspect of liberality if someone wants to compartmentalize in this way. If it bothers our fellow citizens, it is as if there were restrictions in law enforcement, otherwise it would not be. But remember this debate, it was a few years ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U23	Yes, the current legal space gives the municipality the right to restrict it, if necessary, in accordance with the Law on Law Enforcement. After all, the point of law enforcement has to do with the dangers, the dangers that it can pose to certain people in a certain area. Because of the concept of danger, there is also the possibility of imposing certain restrictions. In particular, this disturbance and these dangers are highlighted by the term 'night's peace'. As a result, the current law has also introduced times. If, after all, the local government is granted this right, it is certainly not an obligation under the law, but a right which is inherent in the liberal world view, that is my opinion, and if the local population, through its decision-making body, finds that it is essential to better organise and promote local life, then this possibility is there.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U24	Thank you. Erkki Keldo, question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U25	Thank you. Good waitress! I think it is a very welcome initiative, and I think it is also very liberal, that we actually give more decision-making power to the local government, that we give the decision-making power as close as possible to where people really feel its impact every day. But that's my question. Was it also discussed in this draft that it might be possible for each municipality to actually set the time itself more? At the moment, it is still ten to ten, but can't the municipality still be given the full right to decide on these restrictions?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U26	Thank you for your question. Our discussions did not get so wide, we were still based on the law in force, and I would say that this small loophole, in the form of a few hours, is in the form of a law. That was the starting point.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U27	Thank you. Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I guess it's a little confusing. I'm looking, Erkki Keldo just before asked if he was in the middle of a discussion. He himself has, I'm looking at, been the initiator of the bill. I don't know what you were discussing there when he asked if it was a discussion. But my question is motivated by Valdo Randpere's first question about influence. I'm also looking at this impact analysis. You have mentioned yourself many times in your life that the coalition has not done a proper impact analysis. I note that there is, in fact, no analysis here, no analysis of the impact areas of national or local alcohol policy, no social, health-related effects of the population, no impact on security and security. There really is no impact analysis. What is this about, lack of knowledge or just time?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U29	I would venture to believe that if the local community were to find that alcohol sales could or should be restricted, it would certainly be beneficial for health and it would certainly be beneficial for security. What other effects are we looking at?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U30	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Very respectable waitress! I, too, share this view that, contrary to what has been expressed in the questions of the Fatherland, this is a very liberal draft, because who else, as a local government, should have the right to decide when people's sleep is really disturbed. But it is also a question of the extent to which this draft is in line with the principle of autonomy of the municipality and the Charter of Local Government. Can you also say for some reason that the Fatherland's people may be helping, why should alcohol necessarily be consumed from 6:00 to 10:00 a.m. in the morning, especially in such a way and in such a place as to cause discomfort to other people?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U32	Thank you for your question. In my opinion, this draft is absolutely in line with the European Charter for Local Government, because it gives local authorities a greater opportunity to decide, if necessary, whether or not to limit an important part of life. So from the perspective of the local government charter, it is certainly a plus and positive thing that local government is given more rights and more autonomy.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U33	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U34	Good manager! Good waitress! I, too, remember that in the basic documents of the Reform Party since 1995 and beyond, it is stated that it is a strong local government that makes these decisions on the ground. Maybe you can't blame Siim Valmar Kisler for not reading them, but he'll read them later. In the light of some local government experience, I think that the local government must be able to make the decisions it needs to make, and if there are any institutions that cannot guarantee public order, the local government should shut them down. There is a debate on restrictions on the sale of alcohol in Tallinn. The Mayor of Tallinn's proposal to limit this time has only been one gap, and this is the gap we are filling in here in the Riigikogu. In my opinion, the only reasonable problem is that the municipality cannot decide on the morning time. In this light, how would you describe whether the Centre Party in Tallinn and the Centre Party in the country are communicating with each other or whether there is a barrier?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U35	First of all, thank you very much for your comment! And that answer, I believe, will arrive in the next few minutes. [[A voice from the hall.]] Is it gonna take half an hour? Got it. Well, within the next half-hour, it will be clear whether or not this communication will take place and whether or not there will be common ground, common ground or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U36	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U37	Thank you. Good Kalle! Of course, on the one hand, it is trying to give local authorities more decision-making powers, I understand that. On the other hand, it gives opportunities to the people who love alcohol. Don't you think it's like the road we've been through? We once had a situation where alcohol was sold in different municipalities at different times, which reminded us of a different carpet. This quickly creates internal alcohol tourism from one region to another if alcohol is available somewhere and not available in another. Doesn't that repeat the same old road you've been through?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U38	Thank you for your question. First of all, I would like to remind you that there was an administrative reform in 2017 and that the municipalities' territories were growing. Point 1. Yes, this problem was when the administrative territories of the municipalities were smaller. Figuratively speaking, you left the city border and were in a new municipality with different rules. The larger municipalities have, let's say, a much greater chance of taking clearer decisions. That was point 1. Point 2 is that it is up to the local authority to decide what the impact will be, whether these risks are so high or not. Thirdly, this draft law also provides for the possibility of imposing restrictions at different times in a certain area of local government, which does not have to be the whole territory of the municipality.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U39	Siim Kiisler, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U40	Thank you. It is interesting in itself to justify a ban on something at 9:30 in the morning, with a night's rest, that at 9:30 in the morning there must be a night's rest. But that's it. My question is still liberalism. As a waitress, how do you feel about liberalism being given a power authority the right to deny something to people, or is it about liberalism when people's rights and freedoms are still being defended?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U41	First of all, I'm going to specify the question of peace of the night. According to the law, night rest is valid from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. on working days and from 00 a.m. to 7:00 a.m. on the night before the day of rest. The peace of the night doesn't apply after that, but at these times. As far as your specific question is concerned, the people who have been elected to the local government council are making these decisions on the basis of their best values. We're giving it a chance, we're not saying it has to be this way, or we're putting the order in place. It's an opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U42	Sven Sester, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Again, my question is motivated by a question just before Mr Kisler asked. You say that a liberal party gives people freedom of choice. But I have understood that some local authorities would like to put additional restrictions on people's daily activities, also on companies, and that is what your proposal is now based on. Here's my question. Then why did you stay at ten o'clock, why didn't you give the local government the chance to take decisions on 24 hours? It would be freedom of choice, wouldn't it? So where did you come from at 10:00?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U44	At ten o'clock it came from the fact that the law in force allows shops to buy alcoholic beverages from 10 o'clock in the morning.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U45	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U46	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! In itself, the discussion about the possibility of restricting alcohol sales is very good because alcohol consumption is one of the most widespread and corrupting vices. But since the questions about your own party and also the adjoining members are more world-view, I would like to ask you, if you are tearing the shirt here, how liberal everyone is, would it be if the debate were to be given the right of local governments to also introduce a tax on tourism, the Reform Party Group in corpore would support it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U47	Thank you for your question. I have to admit, my shirt is perfectly healthy, not torn. As far as the tourism tax is concerned, this is the subject of the second draft. Today we are discussing a concrete opportunity to give local authorities wider rights to impose restrictions on the sale of alcohol at a certain point in time. Unfortunately, tourism tax is not the subject of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U48	Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U49	Thank you. I also support your efforts to reduce alcohol consumption. But that's my question. People also work at night, for example, at factories with night shifts. For these people, morning time is the same as evening time for you. Could the next liberal step be for people to wake up and go to bed at the same time as in Orwell's book?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U50	I have to apologize now. The buzzing was so strong in the hall that I didn't hear the end of the question. Can we get another microphone?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U51	Could the next step be for people to go to sleep and wake up at the same time as one of Orwell's books?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U52	I think every person goes to sleep when he feels it's necessary for him and his system, and if he has the chance.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U53	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U54	Thank you. Good waitress! I still have a question. Here, through this liberal law, there is a greater opportunity to extend the time of alcohol sales. Do you think this change will make it possible to increase or reduce alcohol consumption?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U55	It's a very complicated question, I have to admit. I would point out, however, that the local government council will decide, if necessary, whether or not this restriction needs to be applied territorially and over time. Whether it increases or reduces alcohol sales or alcohol consumption is very difficult to say. But I personally think that whether alcohol is consumed for 24 hours or much less is stuck in people's attitudes and opinions and, of course, in the environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U56	Valdo Randpere, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U57	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! You referred to one of the main arguments, public health, that it would be a good option to give local governments a small limit in this respect. I began to think that there are more harmful substances that people consume. It's not just alcohol that's harmful. I'm not going to read everyone up, okay? The beauty is often in the eye of the viewer, but I'll bring tobacco, for example. Do you have the idea that local authorities should also be able to restrict the purchase, sale and consumption of tobacco products at any time? Or has there been another product that is harmful to health?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U58	Thank you for your question. I haven't planned on it. That's not the point.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U59	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U60	Good performer! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. You were right to say that everything is stuck in a person's head, including how much he consumes or when he consumes. That is why I am fundamentally opposed to such restrictions. It is always necessary to find a way to solve certain problems without any command or prohibition, for a person must know and know for himself, right? But there are different people. That is why, on the basis of the question of Pulpland, I came up with this question again. If we restrict these processes in one municipality, in other municipalities, these things can go the other way. You yourself, being an ex-Police Commissioner, know very well that such things cause movement between the parishes and can also cause unhealthy desires to drive in the booze of another realm in order to be satisfied with your desire. So I'm scared, don't you find it? just that such a solution could lead us to suffer more accidents.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U61	Thank you for your question and your previous comment. Of course, there are certain risks. These risks are that a person can consume alcohol or even narcotics and sit in a motor vehicle that is actually banned. I think that this draft certainly will not reduce these risks either, but this draft will give rise to this possibility (i will always emphasise this word 'opportunity'), that if the local council finds that it is effective, it can do so, and if it considers that there is no impact, it does not have to do so. It's not an order and arrangement that you have to do this. It's an opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U62	Andrei Korobenik, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U63	Thank you. Have you predicted how much this could ultimately have an effect on alcohol consumption? Will consumption decrease and, if so, how much?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U64	Missing data. That's the assumption. This may be the case if this restriction is imposed. It's all about creating certain assumptions. Bringing out some specific numbers today that alcohol consumption in one local government or another, if this restriction is imposed, could fall either way or so much... There are more indirect effects. The same question of security, the same thing that when children go to school in the morning, they don't have to see that there's a bunch of people in front of a tavern, for example, who might be acting improperly, and so on. It is not black and white if the local authority imposes this restriction.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U65	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U66	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, I know from my previous work experience that alcohol consumption has negative consequences. I mean, those exploits. Their culmination is at 3:00 a.m. or 4:00 a.m., at least 5:00 a.m. My question is this: what benefit do you think it should be if you shift this consumption ban time from 7:00 to 10:00 in the morning? You'd think most of them would be asleep by then.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U67	Thank you for your question. I would like to explain once again that the current law provides for the possibility of restricting the sales of alcohol in the local government's territory from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. on working days and from midnight until 7:00 a.m. on the night ahead of the day of rest. The point of the bill is that there is an opportunity to limit alcohol sales to 10:00 a.m. in the morning. That's the goal.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U68	Kristen Michal, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I think that this last explanation, which you have just given to colleagues here, might need to be repeated, because sometimes it seems to me, too, on the basis of questions, that it is not understood that the municipality already has the right to make decisions about the evening time for any institution where there is a problem, but the only hole in this freedom to decide on the ground is this morning time. Without wanting to be stuck in this example of Tallinn, I would say that in Tallinn there is a problem with the individual institutions that are on the way to school and which have problems in the morning. They could be decided by the municipality that maybe they could operate somewhere else, not on the way to school. These institutions are not many; they can be counted on the fingers of one or two hands rather, but that is the problem. If you can, just over-emphasise it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U70	Thank you for your comment and your emphasis. I would like to emphasise once again: this draft really concerns three hours in the days preceding the holidays, four hours in the working days, i.e. between six and ten and seven to ten, if the local government had the possibility of restricting alcohol sales, either in time or in place. This gives local authorities the opportunity to better organise local life in certain areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U71	Toomas Kivimägi, second question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U72	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! As one of the initiators of the draft, I feel it is important to stress that it is clear to everyone: this draft does not prohibit the sale of alcohol for an additional minute; it gives the local government the opportunity to prohibit it if it is justified, if it is either on the children's school way, as Kalle has well illustrated, or it still interferes with the peace of the night. The nighttime really is officially up to 6:00, but I think a whole lot of people sleep a little longer. This is actually an opportunity; this bill does not prohibit the sale of alcohol for an additional minute. But my question is whether this bill coincides with the wishes and plans of the mayor of Tallinn. The mayor of Tallinn is known to belong to the Centre Party. If the Centre Party does not support this bill in this hall, can it be considered as a motion of distrust by members of the Riigikogu about their party partner, the mayor of Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U73	Thank you very much for the comment that you have explained as an initiator what the point of this draft is. As far as Tallinn is concerned, the mayor of Tallinn, Mikhail Kõlvart, has indeed brought out as a point of pain in Tallinn the problems that are being resolved by this bill, in the sense that it is precisely the opportunity to solve the bottlenecks that the city of Tallinn might have in its view in organising life. How, how and what decisions are made in the Chamber today by the members of the Centre Party and whether, let's say, that somehow affects the internal climate of their party? It's difficult to say.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U74	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U75	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! Indeed, we have heard some things about Tallinn here, we have heard about the Old Town, where there should be problems, but I do not know so much about Kuressaare. As a native islander, perhaps you can warn me where I shouldn't go in the morning in Kuressaare, where there's more vodka and trouble.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U76	Thank you for that question. Very simple answer: Kuressaare city centre and centre, in the town hall. This is the place.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U77	Kaido Höökelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U78	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Have you also discussed giving local authorities more discretion on the sale and purchase of fishery products infected with listeria bacteria?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U79	Thank you for your question. Haven't discussed it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U80	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U81	Thank you, President-in-Office. I also wondered about the real problem in the morning, whether there are dangerous situations on the way to school, or whether the people who are seen around the store are unpleasant. We all come from different regions of Estonia. For example, if a member of the Riigikogu is at the door of such a shop in Tallinn in the morning, it probably does not scare schoolchildren very much. It would scare ugly-looking people who may not drink at all the alcoholic beverages we consider to be alcohol. They use mouthwashing water and other things that have no restrictions at all. Couldn't you complete your bill and add the kind of rags used by these ugly-looking people?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U82	Good questioner! You have an excellent opportunity today to vote in favour of this draft and to make an amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U83	Jürgen Ligi, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U84	Thank you. I have to listen here to questions and pots from our toy preserves on the subject of what liberalism is and how restrictions are in no way conceivable. Please tell me, does liberalism mean no restrictions or anything else?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U85	From my point of view, liberalism is not a lack of restrictions. Certain restrictions are very important for liberalism.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U86	Aivar Chef, a question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U87	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'm just asking for information. Is this bill intended to restrict the possibility of drinking and selling alcohol in absolutely all places? Is that only in cafes, dining places, or is that also the case in casinos? I understand the homes don't go down there, but do casinos go down there?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U88	Thank you, good Aivar! You, who are a strong supporter of local self-government autonomy, will certainly, I believe, vote in favour of this bill remaining in the process. This draft will give the municipality the opportunity to set a time and place (if necessary), where and when to impose this limit.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U89	Heiki Hepner, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U90	Good waitress! I'm sure when you did this bill, you were also thinking about how this could still affect the use of secret alcohol. Do you think this bill will have any effect on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U91	Thank you for your question. The three and four hours by which the adoption of this draft as a law would provide an opportunity to impose restrictions, in my opinion, will have no effect on the sale or consumption of secret alcohol.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U92	Tõnis Mölder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U93	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I think this is really a bill that deserves a bigger debate and can be quite good in substance. But I also see that when you report, you often suggest that you do not have such a broader view or impact analysis. My question is this: have you also discussed with 79 municipalities what their broader desire is within the framework of this bill? How many municipalities could there be who would like such an opportunity, and how many who do not? We've been through two municipalities here today, but two out of 79 municipalities seem to be a very small percentage. Have you done that homework?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U94	Thank you for your question. On the basis of the media, I understand that Tartu is not like this problem, at least now, but maybe in the future. I have spoken with representatives of local governments and no one has specifically said that this bill would in any way restrict their rights or obligations. This gives us a chance again, and they say that yes, from the perspective of the future, it would make sense for them to adopt this law. If we put in place an order or a lawn that they all have to do so, then it would be quite a different matter. They're giving it a shot today. This thing is seen as freedom, as an opportunity, not an obligation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U95	Aivar Chef, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U96	Good manager! Good waitress! I've been to the municipal council, I don't know how many of these people in this hall are in a few days after 30 years. But on the other hand, I'm an entrepreneur. When I read this bill, I wonder whether there is a conflict here that the municipality may start treating different forms of enterprise unequally if there is a desire to lose, say, the sale or consumption of alcohol in bars, but in the same casinos this possibility is retained. My personal opinion is that we have fought here in the debate on some other law because of the fact that entrepreneurship must be treated equally. It cannot be that one is given the right and the other is not given the right. Why is it now that the municipal authorities have completely open doors? The theory is that, let's say, the cafeteria is restricted, but if you put a "Restaurant" on the door, you don't. Municipalities could start doing that. If there is a ban, it should really be that this, second or third thing is banned in all forms of business, from the gas station to the casino.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U97	Good Aivar! According to the current law, local authorities are already able to apply this restriction. We are talking today about three and four hours to give an even wider time frame to impose this limit when it is necessary. We're not doing anything new. This is simply an additional opportunity given to the local government, nothing new.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U98	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U99	Thank you very much. In Tallinn, the Reform Party has suggested that the city should have a night mayor who would be responsible for promoting nightlife and for business and order at night. Am I right to understand that if new bans are introduced, the mayor of the night will be responsible for controlling compliance with them in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U100	Thank you very much, Raimond, for your question. But we are not introducing additional languages in this Chamber, but we are giving additional opportunities to the local government if it wishes to implement this ban. This is a completely different approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U101	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U102	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Although this is not the subject of this item on the agenda, I wonder whether it would be possible, to some extent, to create, for example, the situation that we no longer equate alcohol-free products with alcoholic products, too, in the context of this amendment. For example, we now have 18+ alcohol-free beer, and with it we give young people the impression that the abstinence of life is perversion.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U103	Thank you for your question. Again, the comment is that if the draft remains in the process, the honourable member of the Riigikogu will have the opportunity to make an amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U104	Tõnis Mölder, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U105	Thank you. Good waitress! Your good partymates, who work in the Tallinn City Council and are eager to do so, were genuinely concerned about the inner life of the Centre Party, whether there was a conflict or something like that. I dare say to them that the Centre Party is more united today than ever before. But my question to you is rather this: can we be sure that the Reform Party Group, if such a bill finally reaches the council in Tallinn, is also united in supporting the proposal of Tallinn City Government and is behind the proposal of the central party Tallinn City Authority?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U106	Thank you for your question. This question is certainly intended for the Group of the Reform Party of the City Council of Tallinn, and unfortunately I cannot answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U107	Tarmo Kruusimäe, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U108	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! How do you feel about it being okay when big marathons, after finishing, are offered alcohol-free beer to athletes and athletes?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U109	It has nothing to do with this bill, but my personal opinion is that it should not be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U110	Raimond Kaljulaid, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U111	Thank you very much. I'm gonna ask you a little bit more, thinking about the future. For example, if Estonia should ever legitimise the use of cannabis, should this law be supplemented so that according to the time you foresee in order to further prohibit and restrict the sale of alcohol, for example, the sale or consumption of cannabis products should also be banned and restricted?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U112	Thank you. This is not the subject of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U113	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U114	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You commended this bill for being an excellent bill. But you always have to "know all the circumstances." How many of the people who initiated this draft are permanent barists or, let's say, are in a drinking situation, like this, felt, to know the real situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U115	It's a very complicated question, I haven't conducted such a survey. I can only talk about myself. The older I get, the less I go to the bar, and that's because when live music starts at 2:00 a.m. or 1:00 a.m. in the tavern, in order to stay up so long and have a good time sitting there with some company or going to an amusement facility at that time, unfortunately, there's no energy left. This is my personal experience. Speaking of other initiators, I owe you an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U116	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions. Now I would like to ask Sven Sester, Chairman of the Economic Commission, to co-rapporteur this chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U117	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this particular issue at its meeting on Monday 18 November. The initiators of the bill were then, as is the case here today, Kalle Laanet. In addition, two representatives of the Ministry of Rural Affairs had arrived. For the sake of the protocol, these were Kristel Maidre, Head of the Agricultural Policy Department of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, and Janeli Tikk, Head of the Office for the Development of the Agricultural and Food Sector in the same department. In the Commission, Kalle Laane, of course, presented the content of the draft, which I am not going to repeat. There were different questions. There were fewer questions than in this Chamber, it certainly has to do with the fact that there are fewer people in the Commission. But there were questions. I will also give an overview of what we discussed more in the Commission. Namely, they wanted to know why this amendment has come to the Riigikogu right now, why this topic has not been highlighted earlier by the Reform Party. Kalle Laanet, the representative of the initiators of the draft act, said that there is a trend towards less and less consumption of alcohol in society and an attitude towards alcohol consumption, as well as society in general is constantly changing. It was examined whether the initiators did not see the risk that each local authority could establish its own rules, which could lead to unfair competition. Kalle Laane stated that in this sense there is such a risk that one local authority takes one position, the other takes another position and that this possibility arises for the municipalities. There was an interest in it, the same question as was said today in this Chamber, whether the restriction applies in this case to this particular unit of territory everywhere equally, or whether there are any exceptions. A similar example was given for these very casinos. The representative of the draft act pointed out in this example that the initiators' idea was to regulate alcohol sales in hotel bars, for example, so that there would still be, especially territorially, some forms of enterprise that would allow the alcohol to be sold, but some would not have the option. Interest was expressed as to whether exemptions were allowed in themselves or whether they were treated in a uniform way. The initiator of the draft act said that it should remain a decision of the local government at the level of the law. It was further examined whether such a territorial restriction, a company-centred distinction, would still make sense if such an option existed, and whether we should not think in depth that it could also create competitive differences. The initiator of the draft act said that it had not been discussed separately. But then what was said in this Chamber was that, in essence, local authorities are being sought to provide additional time opportunities rather than to regulate the competitive situation of one or the other business area separately. There was an interest in whether the cessation of alcohol sales at 3:00 a.m. would improve the nightlife culture, if a table was bought full of alcohol just before the beginning of the sales restriction, in which case drinking would still take place until morning. The initiator of the draft act has come to the conclusion that the purpose of the draft act is to grant local authorities additional rights to restrict sales if they wish to do so. The draft does not regulate what time and on which territory specific restrictions are laid down. The members of the Commission stated that it would rather be seen as a possible restriction not to do so at local government level, but rather as a 'national context'. The Commission summarised the debate in such a way as to look at the wider picture. Several Members of the Commission, as I said, mentioned that, if we go this far, we should rather look at it more broadly. Ah, there was also an interest in whether the Government of the Republic had a plan for a possible nationwide restriction on the sale of alcohol, namely in those three or four hours, at the time of the working day or the day before the rest, respectively, that there had been a plan or an action. According to current information, at least in the Committee on Economic Affairs, there was a knowledge that there was no such activity in any ministry. The representatives of the Ministry of Rural Affairs also confirmed that there is no working group to deal specifically with this issue anywhere. Then there were speeches with pros and cons, 'opinions', not any more questions. The representatives of the initiators of the draft act supported this draft before the vote. Some members of the Commission pointed out what are these bottlenecks in the context of competition, in the context of different regulations in different regions, up to the point that differences between municipalities may even create some kind of alcohol transport service at some point. Finally, the vote on the proposals was reached. These proposals were such. First of all, it was decided to put this draft on the agenda for today, 5 December. There was a good consensus in the Commission; everyone was in favour of it. Sven Sester was appointed rapporteur, there was a consensus again, everyone was in favour of it. The last suggestion was that the initiators stated that they would like to finish the first reading of the draft. It was put to the vote and there was a situation where it was said that the draft should be rejected and the first reading should not be completed: 5 were in favour and 4 opposed. So the Commission finally took the view that this draft should not be dealt with at the moment. There was an extra nuance. When we discussed whether or not there have been any working groups on this issue in the ministries, we stated that if today's large hall does not support this draft, as the Commission has proposed, the Committee on Economic Affairs will certainly propose to the ministries that they set up a working group and analyse more substantively and in depth whether there are problems on this subject and, if so, what solutions are possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U118	There are no questions for the co-rapporteur. Thanks to the co-rapporteur. It is now time for us to open negotiations. Jürgen Ligi has expressed a desire for negotiation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U119	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would point out that there is every right to joke in this Chamber, but there is no right to talk nonsense. All of this is recorded, and if the debate still falls very much, history will be recorded. However, I would also recommend that this draft be dealt with seriously, not to ask completely irrelevant questions, not to claim that alcohol policy can only be dealt with by a drunkard, as the EKRE thinks, and also not to conclude its presentation with a major statement that this bill must be voted on in order to form a committee. Let's take our work seriously! The questions were on the subject of liberalism in the first half. Conservatives, as they call themselves, thought that they would shut someone's mouth with this label and have no answers to that question. Liberalism does not mean no restrictions; liberalism means restrictions that protect the freedoms of our fellow citizens. One of the cores of alcohol policy should be for all political parties, be they conservatives or sots or liberals, that, although alcohol is allowed, it is not allowed to harm others. The drawing of this line is precisely what should also be debated about in this draft. We have submitted our draft on the grounds that there is a few hours of hole in the morning when the municipality has no authority to limit the disturbance of others, to the harm of others. One of the fundamental principles of liberalism is that decisions are taken as close as possible to the citizen and the role of local governments is greater. So don't come to lecture us ideologically, but talk about it. The time when my party used words that it could not be done because it was liberal is long gone. I helped with that. I always intervened. But why is this contrary to liberalism, and what does that have to do with it? Liberalism is not a universal recipe for any individual matter, it is a general principle that must take into account all considerations. The decision-making power of the municipality is what is liberal if you want it to be, but I don't think that's what matters most. Drinking itself is not some very liberal activity towards our fellow citizens, and restrictions are needed here. I couldn't really bring this debate to law enforcement. In my question, I suggested that there is a provision that says that, unfortunately, I am not a lawyer myself and I do not have the paragraphs in mind that alcohol consumption in public space is prohibited in a way that disturbs citizens. Such principles should also be taken into account by the municipality when it makes its decisions. In doing so, I do not think in any way here that I represent the opinion of all performers that it should somehow be linked to the peace of the night. This is foolish because, if the sale of alcohol is not linked to the peace of the night, there is no way to bring this analogue or to establish a parallel. Night peace is not the principle that you can tell when you might disturb your fellow citizens, is it not, when you must not, and then you must in the rest of the time? When drinking alcohol, having all kinds of parties, we should remember that we must not disturb or harm others. Here's the decision-making power of the municipality. If there are places of sale where alcohol is consumed and public order is disturbed, in my opinion there is a conflict with morals here, talking about children's institutions, schools and the example offered, why not tell me why the municipality should not apply this restriction if it has any restrictions. Of course, it's ridiculous to say here that it has something to do with tourism, from six or seven to ten in the morning drinking. Is this Estonian Nokia now? Martin Helme thinks that alcohol duty is what reducing it leads to economic growth. I do not agree with this, and I also disagree that morning drinking is the tourism that Estonia needs, or that it is somehow a factor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U120	Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please speak from the remote!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U121	Good vice chairman! Good coworkers! Good ex-cup brothers with whom they've eaten pounds of salt! Alcoholism is a serious disease that goes through fun. Unfortunately, it is at the expense of the person who takes the alcohol. If there were such drafts in Tallinn that the liquor point should not be in the immediate vicinity of the school or children's institution, such as Paldiski mnt 51, where there is a children's shelter and there is a Regalia drink shop in the same building, then it is absolutely incomprehensible to me when we say that we are fighting against alcoholism. Or in Tõnismäe, this store is 85 paces of French lyce. Director Lauri Leesi said it was her children's favorite shop. Today we're working on when we should take a break. Well, there's always a break when no one lends money or when the company gets bored. If you close one door and send it somewhere else, it's bad. Today, of course, the situation is what you all probably know. Let's say we're having a good party here, we're going to a party somewhere, then another reunion. Before the good idea we've decided to confirm with another little click, it turns out we have to go to the casino, but when we go to the casino, we have to identify ourselves with an ID card, which means forget about all the loans, because you're already in the register. So where are we going to send these people? But do we have to send these people somewhere? Let's see what caused the problem. Very many people have bought an apartment in the Old Town of Tallinn and they are disturbed that other people have fun and are perky. Then buy yourself a six-time glass! Or did you really think that if you came to the old town, bought an apartment, you'd have a nice nightingale singing in the morning, a grasshopper sawing his violin and a frog croaking? We're doing it the other way around. [[Pours water in a glass.]] You see, I dare say I drink alcohol-free vodka in the Riigikogu today because alcohol has been removed from this vodka and there is a pure H2O left. You can have a party any way you want. I don't think we should be regulating it. I've heard discussions about housing companies where people say they don't want a playground for children near their house because the kids squeal. Do you know who will be the first to be banned if a public court is established? They're skateboarders. The detailed plan says it's nice to skate, but the first thing to do is to ban it. Why do we keep banning? I don't see how that's gonna solve anything. We're still approaching this problem, so if there's one person that's distracted by a few things, let them. I say that I do not have any voters who would say that this is a problem that needs to be resolved. Honestly. To you and to the departed cup brothers! [[Drinks water.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U122	Jürgen Ligi, why?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U123	I have a procedural question. Is there any way I could ask the hall to apologize for making the bill that we tabled so upset one person that he started talking that way? Does the procedure allow you to apologize? [[???Hääl saalist: 'Kirjalikult.'???]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-05_U124	The procedure allows, not even the procedure, but every behavior always allows you to apologize if you want to. We're done negotiating. There's no more calls. We're going to the final procedure. The commission has proposed to reject the draft at first reading. We're preparing for the vote. Okay, preparation time's up. I shall put to the vote the draft proposal by the commission of reference to reject it at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 43 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of rejection, against 20. The 83th draft has been excluded from the procedure and looks forward to better times. The trial is closed, as everyone has already understood. Closure of the sitting at 11.22 a.m.
