ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! There are 31 members of the Riigikogu in Question Time. The government is represented by Indrek Saar, Minister of Culture, as Prime Minister, Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, and Janek Mäggi, Minister of State Administration. I will give an opportunity to put forward a more specific question for each of the key issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U2	The first speaker is Indrek Saar, Minister of Culture, in the role of Prime Minister and Asker Ain Lutsepp. Please, Ain Lutsepp!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U3	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, The cultural field's logic of activity is contrary to the law and therefore health insurance is not available to many professionals in this field for a period of time. This comes from the fact that contracts are not permanent, and this leads to interruptions. In essence, this means a double risk to cultural professionals; they assume all this responsibility. What are the legislative preparations for these people with social guarantees in mind, or how does the Ministry of Culture intend to ensure that cultural workers who do not have permanent employment contracts still have social guarantees?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U4	Thank you, good questioner! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The social guarantees of cultural people and the fact that their working rhythm is somewhat different from that of the vast majority of classical work patterns have been discussed for years. In 2005, the Act on Creative Persons and Creative Unions was adopted to support creative people in temporary economic difficulties. People who do not have jobs for a while have been kept in mind. Whether or not they belong to the Creative Union, they will be able to apply through the Creative Union for a grant of up to one year equal to the minimum wage and on which all taxes have been paid. It gives them all the social guarantees. But, of course, we know that this is not really enough. And in recent years not only has the nature of creative work changed very much; it has also been born in many other areas. People get their pay in very different ways. The remuneration may not be regular, but it may be limited to the minimum that should be paid each month according to national requirements. To figure out exactly what this situation is like, as I said, it is far from just creative people today, the Ministry of Social Affairs commissioned an extensive study that was completed last autumn. Praxis has presented us with three proposals that we should continue to work on. One is better information, because people often find themselves in trouble because they have not noticed that their insurance time is over. The second proposal, which is very much about the creative people, is to try to put this tax burden away for a longer period. In this case, according to my data, the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration, in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs, are currently calculating and working on possible solutions to ensure such social tax diversification that if...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U5	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U6	Yeah. I hope there is a clarification and then I can continue to talk.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U7	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U8	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Of all the aspects you have pointed out, we are aware. The Theatre Union and other professional organisations, creative associations, have repeatedly proposed solutions to this problem. My question is this: how exactly are we going to resolve the situation at the legislative level? What are the concrete steps forward to reach an indicative level of solutions in this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U9	Thank you! Specific progress? I spoke about the Act on Creatives and Creative Unions, adopted in 2005, which has actually helped quite a few people. On 1 January 2016, the provision of health insurance entered into force on the basis of the principle of the aggregation of monthly social contributions. This means that health insurance is also guaranteed for people who are paid by several employers and who, when aggregated, have a minimum share of social tax. It guarantees them health insurance. One very concrete action we launched more than three years ago and today it can be said that the first flight has already finished. This concerns areas such as literature and visual arts. In these areas, freelance workers are often employed and paid in a highly cyclical manner. We have also established an artist's and writer's salary: 12 artists and 12 writers receive a full salary from which all social contributions are paid. They have guarantees. This salary can be paid for three years in a row and then you can apply for it again. So there are also very specific activities. As far as progress is concerned, this requires a slightly wider social agreement. I've already talked about the "dispersal" option. But, of course, this must also be accepted by the tax administration. It must be possible to do so without giving people the opportunity to circumvent the obligation to pay social tax. Praxis actually made another suggestion. It was proposed that health insurance could be universally guaranteed in Estonia at all, and it could be free for everyone, just as education is. But it requires an even wider social agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U10	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm just picking up where you got to. One step is to dispel the tax burden and the other, which has indeed been mentioned, is to ensure health insurance cover for everyone. Has the Ministry of Culture reached a closer look at the conclusions of the Praxis study and made choices as to how the Ministry of Culture will continue to resolve the issue of artists or at least seek solutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U12	Yeah, we've met them. I mentioned that there is one thing that is really in the work for which there is an agreement and legislative obstacles have been removed. It's better information. As soon as the technical solution is completed, I hope that during this year the Health Insurance Fund will inform people early when their insurance cover starts to run out. It doesn't hit people in a cold shower when they've gone to the doctor and found out they no longer have insurance cover. Deterioration requires that we get a position from the Tax and Customs Board and the Ministry of Finance to which we are prepared to move forward with it. As long as we do not have a final response from there, the Ministry of Culture does not have the point of planning its activities in this regard. The third solution requires, as I said, a much wider social agreement, whether we are ready to go, that, whether you pay social contributions or not, you have health insurance if you are an Estonian resident. With regard to this issue, it is very important that we do not create a situation where some people have additional incentives to stop paying taxes on wages. I'm sure you'll agree that this is not the situation we really want to bring about at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U13	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U14	And now the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, answers the question posed by Henn Põlluaas. Please, Henn Põllamaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U15	Thank you. I am interested, not at all in a negative key, in a number of matters that you have dealt with as ministers, but in which, for some reason, actions have not been taken. For example, the Cohabitation Act, the validity of which you deny, as we do, but which certain judges and notaries still apply, or the illegal signature of the UN Migration Pact, which was not obstructed, or the provision of a ban on the burka that harassed women by the EKRE, and the tightening of the paedophile punishment that was rejected in the Riigikogu and on which you promised to draft a bill at the Ministry of Justice. Or the demand for occupation damage from Russia, which unfortunately has not been reached anywhere. EKRE has been waiting for progress in these matters, but no action has been made. Where has the shoe squeezed, and where has the pressure come from to avoid these important issues being dealt with?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U16	Thank you. Henn, I would like to say first of all that, when assessing the fulfilment of the electoral promises, I also analysed the fulfilment of the political parties' electoral promises. And indeed I have come to the objective conclusion that, of all political parties, the Fatherland has fulfilled its four-year electoral promises at most. I don't think there's a person in this room who would dare argue against it. It's an objective audit. An exemption of EUR 500 has been introduced, the allowance for pensioners living alone, the allowance for families with many children. There is a single parent maintenance fund, administrative reform is done, national defence costs are historically highest. Things have been done, and I thank those who contributed. But there are a lot of important things that have been dealt with, and on that point, I want to say that we need to move on with these things. On the issue of occupational damage, the first report by the International Commission is ready. If you're interested, I can send it to a good questioner. What is very important: according to international law, my views and statements can be considered justified, this right of claim must be recognised. It is very important that such a position is taken. As regards the tightening of paedophile sentences, on Thursday the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee will discuss a draft that has reached the parliamentary procedure, which provides for up to a life sentence for paedophile who has committed repeated crimes. What are we doing here? So how long are these jokes going on? Indeed, there could be life imprisonment for people who repeatedly committed sexual crimes against children. I hope that the EKRE will support the adoption of this law in this Parliament. So a number of value questions are on the table. As far as the migration pact is concerned, I've ordered new legal expertise. I warned you I'd do it. These legal expertise are being prepared and I intend to make their results available to both the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu. Count on it!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U17	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U18	Thank you, Urmas! You prematurely assumed I'd ask you about the election promises. Not at all. The question is precisely those things in which we have been in agreement with you, but which in the Riigikogu have caused very great opposition from certain political parties and, also, let us say, a direct violation of the laws, as was the case with the migration pact. I will read to you our last question, which relates to all these issues: where has the shoe squeezed, and where has the pressure come from to prevent these important things from being dealt with?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U19	The answer is very unambiguous. The other parties have certainly put pressure on us not to deal with these matters. But take a finger, Henn, I've been working on these things and I'll stay on as long as the people support me. And the people will support me, no fear! The question is that these elections are not to allow any money barges or billions to be transferred from one taxpayer's pocket to another. These elections, Riigikogu elections, are values elections. This must be taken into account by everyone who wants to apply to the Riigikogu. It must not be that it is advisable not to express its views on value issues, as revealed in the Postimees survey. Of course you have to answer! It's time to report to the public what value attitudes are taken. And the attitude of value must be that in Estonia, Estonian citizens decide their future and do so on the basis of their values and moral beliefs, which they consider appropriate. So on the issue of shoe squeezing, I have to admit that it was not easy when the Reform Party and I were in the government, and it has not been easy when we are in the coalition with the Soviets and the Central Party. But I want to say why I thought it was important to give an overview of the fulfilment of the electoral promises: the Estonian people need action. Words are one thing, but believe me, real politics is to be able to carry things out and counter negative consequences. Those questions concerning the migration pact, the whole issue of the migration pact, are in the air. And we need to find us who think that the migration pact is not a reasonable method to prevent its negative effects in the Republic of Estonia. We must maintain control over immigration, it must not be lost.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U20	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U21	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I wanted to ask Jüri Ratas about the outstanding promise, but I am now taking this opportunity to ask the Minister of Justice who is the competent minister in this area. I ask you about one point of the coalition agreement that has not been fulfilled, and it reads as follows: we grant naturalisation by application to children under 15 years of age born in Estonia whose parents or parents are either persons of undetermined nationality or nationals of a third country and resided in Estonia permanently before 1991. Why is this point outstanding, and what party has prevented this last one from happening?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U22	This party is the party of Isamaa. It was in the coalition agreement, we discussed it because there was a specific bill on the table. However, on the issue of implementation, we had a very serious conflict with the outgoing Minister of the Interior, Anvelt. This application, which was proposed, was very dangerously approaching a change in the principles of citizenship policy, and so we said: 'It does not fly! This thing can't work! ' And it didn't work. Period. I hope that there will also be a force in the government in the next Parliament that will not be able to play with the principles of citizenship policy, as has happened recently, whether it concerns multi-citizenship or the null variant of citizenship, i.e. the window of citizenship in a tender way. We don't need experiments like that! No, I don't!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U23	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U24	Next, Indrek Saar, Minister of Culture in the role of Prime Minister, answers the question asked by Urve Tiidus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U25	Dear Indrek Saar! As we know, the Prime Minister is currently in Switzerland, where he will attend the World Economic Forum meeting in Davos and discuss issues relating to globalisation there. This is also important, but in the run-up to the forthcoming elections, we have a lively debate here on education in Estonian. In Estonian National Broadcasting, the Minister of Education Mailis Reps recently gave an interview. The journalist asked him whether the Centre Party did not consider it necessary to switch to Estonian-language learning alone, the support of which has grown in society. The minister replied that he must, but we are guided by the constitutional law that the parent has a choice. This means that there is a kindergarten in the program in Estonian, bilingual, Russian or other language of instruction. This constitutional right of choice was already challenged by the Supreme Court in the 1990s and has been disproved. What is your message to your coalition partner now as Prime Minister and Minister of Culture?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U26	Thank you for that question. I have already answered the question in Riigikogu Question Time about the Estonian-language school or the school of studying together, but I am happy to reply again. In my opinion, the debate that was held here in the autumn in the Riigikogu proved that there is a very broad consensus to move in the direction that the Estonian school is in Estonian. Of course, there will probably be some exceptions in the future, just as it is now possible to study in English, French and German in Estonia. But in order for Estonia to have a unified school system, I believe that a broad political consensus has been achieved. I understand that all parties represented in the government fully support this principle. And not only do words support, but they work in practice to do so. The Ministry of Education, which you have just referred to as the Minister, has launched the programme 'Professional Estonian Language Teacher in any kindergarten group with a Russian language' to ensure that all children have equal language opportunities in early childhood education. In the new academic year, for example, 150 teachers in kindergarten and general education schools in Ida-Virumaa will receive free B2 and C1 level Estonian language training in order to also pass the required exam. And much more has been done in the education system. As far as adult language learning is concerned, it is organised in cooperation with several ministries. The Ministry of Culture and the Foundation for Integration also play a significant role.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U27	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U28	The politicians in the leader's position have a responsibility to perceive expectations and processes in society and to maintain a high constitutional spirit. The Minister of Education has not eaten his earlier words, because five years ago Mrs Reps also said that banning the possibility of non-Estonian education is an example of an area where public education policy does not want to take into account the wishes of parents and the community, because it is politically beneficial. However, he admitted that the knowledge of the national language is necessary for every person living in Estonia. Now I ask you, where will you run it if you were to negotiate more seriously with the Minister of Education of the Central Party on the transition to Estonian-language learning? In whatever circumstances, but especially after Urmas Reinsalu has confirmed that these elections are an election of values.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U29	I hope that Urmas Reinsalu's confirmation that these elections are an election of values is more serious than his assurance that he has carried out an objective audit, which has shown that it is the Fatherland that has fulfilled the highest number of election promises. Just because Urmas Reinsalu personally carries out some kind of audit doesn't mean it's objective. This is particularly the case where he is facing an obvious conflict of interest. On the one hand, he is the Minister of Justice, on the other hand, in a significant position in the Fatherland party, and I think he is also a member of the board of this non-profit association. So to call this audit objective is, to put it mildly, a little funny. But certainly, when we talk about a school in Estonian, we cannot only bear in mind the decisions that are taken at national level. Very many decisions on this subject depend on the decision of the local community, local authorities. I can give you an example of Rakvere City, where many years ago the community came to an agreement. Yes, indeed, there was some debate about this, but it was agreed that it was possible that all children would study in one school and study in Estonian. It was done in Rakvere. However, if we look at Tartu, for example, where your partymates have been in power for years, led by Andrus Ansip, Laine Randjärve, at the time he was in Laine Jänes and Mr Kruus, we will see that there are still several educational institutions studying in Russian. Today, the Reform Party is still in power in Tartu. Consequently, local circumstances are different and there are different considerations as to when you can switch to an Estonian-language school in one place or another. And we'll probably have to take that into account in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U30	Minister of Justice Reinsalu! There's talk in this hall when the manager gives the floor. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U31	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, In general, professional autonomy is respected in the educational landscape, so that schools can decide for themselves how to organise learning. But I have school leaders from Valgamaa today. Valga is an Estonian-language and Russian-language comprehensive school, and the trend shows that the number of students in the Russian-language comprehensive school is decreasing every year, and the number of students in the Estonian-language primary school is increasing. Children who really grow there in Russian families go voluntarily to Estonian school. What do you think or predict: if the state does not intervene, can we have a common Estonian-language school system at some point in view of this professional autonomy?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U32	Thank you. I'm not an educational specialist, and I don't want to do divination either. I am absolutely not suggesting that I know the situation in every school and can predict in any way what time it is possible to switch to Estonian so that these children do not get caught in the gears of this whole reorganization. In the end, we still want them to get a proper education. However, I think that the state must intervene in one way or another. Enough Estonian teachers are needed to switch. I have already pointed out in my first reply that the state must deal with the fact that we are able to train enough professional and motivated teachers to enable this transition. If we do not have teachers who can teach Russian children in good Estonian and good Estonian, this transition will also be very difficult for the local government, no matter how hard it tries. Ultimately, it is necessary to send a teacher to the class, whose work really will enable children to speak the language and to acquire all other knowledge in that language. So, for its part, the state must certainly continue to contribute, not only to language learning, but to all integration, to be in one information space, one cultural space. These are also actions where the state must certainly take the initiative in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U33	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U34	Janek Mäggi, Minister of State Administration, asks Krista Aru. Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Martin Repinski, Mayor of Jõhvi Parish, suggested that the city of Jõhvi be given separate status. The municipality of Jõhvi is currently Jõhvi, including the city of Jõhvi. This proposal is, say, very interesting and certainly very exciting for the local population. As your minister, you have given an interview in which you confirmed that if this is the way you want to be, you have to create an opportunity. What were the arguments underlying your assessment? Why is this necessary and how could such a separation of Jõhvi from Jõhvi municipality benefit the whole of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U36	Thank you very much, Honourable Krista. The important question is, in fact, that quite a number of very strange local governments have emerged in Estonia since the administrative reform. Tallinn is known to be the fifth largest city in Estonia and Pärnu is the largest city in Estonia. Paide and Narva-Jõesuu are also bigger than Tallinn. It's like there's some kind of mismatch. According to the law, regardless of whether the municipality is a city or a municipality, the rights and obligations are the same. At present, the municipality can choose whether it wants to be a municipality or a city only at the time of the merger. For example, if Jõhvi were to join Toila now, they have had contacts on this subject, then they could change that status. I think that because of the purely emotional background, not the substantive background, such desires have arisen not only in one local government, but in several. This issue simply needs to be thoroughly considered and then, of course, a uniform solution to be offered to all local governments across Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U37	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for your answer, Minister. I'll take it from here. You will definitely have an overview of how many local government units have a similar desire. Perhaps the solution found at the time of accession is not the best and there are also the arguments on which it is currently based. I very much hope that in Jõhvi these arguments are not the result of your party ruling in Jõhvi municipality. In addition to Jõhvi, what are the unnatural municipalities? How do you think it is possible to proceed and what can you recommend to municipalities that still have such a desire?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U39	The farther perspective is that large county municipalities will emerge in Estonia. There will certainly be more accessions in the future. I have received information about a dozen debates on this subject in particular at the moment. They may not fit to be mentioned here because they have been such consultations. But I believe that the substantive continuation of the administrative reform must also include the organisation of the names of local governments, if necessary. And the basis must be the initiative of the local authorities themselves. Local authorities must be able to decide for themselves as much as possible and, if necessary, agree with other local authorities to join. Depends on how someone likes it. But this process must take place across the country on a uniform basis. That is self-evident. But yes, it's not just Jõhvi's problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U40	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U41	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I refer once again to Mrs Krista Aru's question about the city and municipality of Jõhvi, to which you replied that Pärnu is the largest city in Estonia and Tallinn is in fifth place. I understand you mean territory, but generally the size of cities is calculated by the number of inhabitants. But here's my question. What are you forecasting when county municipalities will emerge in Estonia? And have you, as Minister, taken any steps to achieve this result?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U42	Thank you very much. I think that this is certainly one of the topics of the coalition negotiations between the Riigikogu and its government, which will be elected on 3 March. There is no longer any point in proposing a longer perspective. There are 132828 people working in the public sector in Estonia, and a very large part of them work in local governments. Only 2540 people work in ministries, repeating less. If we want to talk about state reform, it is mainly about the organisation of local governments and local self-government.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U43	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U44	Replying to the Prime Minister in his duties Minister of Culture Indrek Saar, asks Martin Helme! Please, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U45	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. There was a demonstration in Tallinn on the weekend, and we certainly disagree on its content. I think it was the radical left side. But in any case, it was an ideological event and before this ideological event, the director of Hoolekandeteenused AS Maarja/Maarjo Mändmaa, or the transvestite, sent a letter to his employees to march all, including his customers. Thus, their employees were instructed to participate in ideological demonstrations and, in addition, their employees were ordered to march their customers, which are about 2,100 people with mental disabilities. The reason may have been that Mändmaa's partner, Kadi Viik, is the organiser of this march. He has also been the head of the Department of Gender Equality; he currently runs the Estonian Human Rights Centre. All right, I'm running out of time, and I'm asking you, is it normal for our public authorities to give their employees and clients orders to go out and express themselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U46	Thank you for your question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. I haven't read anything about giving anyone such an order. It's not possible to give orders to take our customers somewhere to march. I don't know what news channels you're watching. I suggest you read the independent media of Estonia from time to time. At this point, I think you're either confused or worse, lying. And we've caught you on this before. You've been blaming people for things they've come out of, they're not guilty at all. If you read the independent media and received a little more independent information, you would understand that this was one way to draw attention to the values that are also enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and which should also guide all political parties operating in Estonia. I'm afraid you weren't there on Mars. I didn't see my friend Urmas and his friend Hennu there either.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U47	No way!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U48	You might have seen there that a very large part of the Estonian political parties were represented there. I am pleased that the Reform Party was represented, the Centre Party, the Free Party and Estonia 200 were represented there. And, of course, the Social Democrats were present because women's rights were defended for women's rights, so that they could be treated as equal members of society. I think we all have to stand up for these values. And certainly among the values to be protected is that we do not lie to the people of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U49	Thank you. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U50	Thank you. Well, if you know any independent media publications in Estonia, tell me. But I did not know that the fundamental value of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia is to wear vulva hats. I'm surprised your party chairman didn't put that pink cute hat on himself, despite the invitation from the organisers. But you didn't answer my question, unfortunately. My question was not what the content of this event was or what our understanding of independent media is. And, well, this accusation of lying, you might want to give me an example. According to our records, this person has sent a letter to the staff of his institution saying: 'Everyone marches, including customers. ' My question is, is this normal? Is it normal to mobilise people with mental disabilities on left-wing ideological march? And if that is the case, then we simply know that if we come to power after March, we will also be sending public officials and other public authorities on marches.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U51	Judging by what you have said so far, I have no doubt that you will start sending public officials everywhere and telling them very precisely what they can do. And not only for public officials, but also for many other people in Estonia. In view of what you have said so far, it can be concluded that you certainly want to start interfering with the public media programme. You want to get involved in the repertoire design of the theatres and concert organizations, the production of a song festival program, etc. You have indeed promised all this in one form or another. AS Hoolekandeteenused is not directly under the administration of the Ministry of Culture, but I can quote to you what the Minister of Social Affairs has said about this, whose administration it is. Maarjo Mändmaa, the head of AS Hoolekandeteenused, has also explained in the media the importance of the topic and its relevance to welfare. The company has the opportunity to decide for itself which values it pays attention to or what information it provides in its internal channels, whether it is a global day of cleaning for the preservation of the living environment, that people can be invited to participate there in the same way, and I am sure that the leaders of many institutions will do so, a move that supports a healthy lifestyle, or an initiative that promotes equal opportunities. It is worth recognising that employers also want to contribute to promoting gender equality. I hope there will be more of these calls in the future. By the way, Margit Sutrop, Head of the Centre for Ethics at the University of Tartu, has found that this was a fairly balanced invitation to act according to the values of AS Hoolekandeteenused.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U52	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U53	Thank you. I cannot in any way accept the Minister's arrogant and profound ideological mental impairment of this kind of behaviour, wrestling and lying, defamation and accusation of the party that I presided over. It's embarrassing, it's embarrassing. In principle, you have now also answered the question of whether you accept it. The Speaker of the Riigikogu, sitting on your left hand, has repeatedly said that we do not want to go back to another time. Under your leadership, however, we want to go back to the time when all working collectives were forced to go to all kinds of demonstrations. Thank you for once again exposing yourself to left-wing propaganda as a force for left-wing ideology into society. There's no need for an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U54	It is very difficult to answer, but I have the right to speak. [[???Vahelehüüded, muu hulgas: 'Pange suu kinni!'???]] I am very sad to see where we have come from in Estonian society.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U55	Chairman of the Riigikogu, ensure order!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U56	And I am very sad that in the free country of Estonia, people allow themselves propaganda techniques that really resemble another era, not a free country. And the statement that objective news comes only from the Lens or EKRE portal is as true as the Minister of Justice's claim that if he evaluates the performance of his party's programme, it is an objective analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U57	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister of Justice, Reinsalu! Believe me, the elections that will come in March are not the last in the free Republic of Estonia. Calm down! Calm down! I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U58	Next, Minister of Culture Indrek Saar answers the question posed by Arto Aas in his duties as Prime Minister. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U59	Thank you. Indeed, we will continue on a somewhat milder tone, albeit seriously. We are generally accustomed to the Centre Party sharing different messages on citizenship issues in different languages and wanting a very loose citizenship policy. Something similar has now happened to the Social Democrats. In strange circumstances, Katri Raik, who came to work in place of Minister of the Interior, Anvelt, who quickly resigned, recently gave a remarkable interview, where he said that all people who have lived here since 1991 could have Estonian citizenship, and this was simply on the basis of a request. You do not need to know the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia or speak Estonian. This is a rather surprising statement, and I would like to know if this is your official position. And how should it be viewed?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U60	This is a government briefing. But please respond!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U61	Thank you for your question. In a situation where there are over 70,000 people in Estonia who do not have citizenship, this is almost 6% of the people living in Estonia, everything must be done to ensure that the number of stateless persons is reduced. Consequently, I think that this debate should not be held in society as long as there are considerable numbers of these people, somewhere to go. It is very important that there is a willingness to discuss, debate on this subject. With regard to the ideas of the Minister of the Interior that you have referred to, I have here the most correct quote to the Secretary-General of the Social Democratic Party, who has expressed the party's position on this matter. And it goes this way: 'The idea proposed by the Minister for the Interior was his personal position and this is not reflected in the party's programme. '
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U62	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U63	Thank you. So let's continue this debate that you think is necessary. I understand that the Centre Party would like to give Estonian citizenship to everyone who has been here before 1991, now at least one leading Social Democrat would like to give it to everyone who has been here since 1991. You don't need to know the language or the constitution. How do you feel about this being fair to people who have taken the trouble to get to know the Estonian regime and learn the Estonian language? There are very many of these people, these people are in the Riigikogu, leading positions in local governments and entrepreneurship. Is this fair to those people who have made a little effort to gain the citizenship of the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U64	Yeah, I think all these aspects need to be considered. If the aim is to significantly reduce the number of stateless persons, you really cannot exclude these aspects. Regulation must be fair, and it must also seem fair. After all, this must also be of benefit to the country as a whole. As regards the programme position of the Social Democrats, which the party has agreed on, this is as follows: 'We will continue our efforts to significantly reduce the number of stateless persons in Estonia without changing the fundamentals of citizenship policy. " And we have done so. I would like to remind you that while we were with you in the coalition, we agreed in 2014 and, without changing the fundamentals of citizenship policy, Mr Reinsalu considered this to change the fundamentals of citizenship policy, so you and I did not understand it, we made the very necessary changes, which reduced much of the problem that is called the restoration of citizenship. Children born in Estonia, whose parents do not have citizenship of any state, were not automatically granted Estonian citizenship. Now they're gonna get it. Thanks to this, in one year Estonian citizenship received one and a half thousand children. They are now Estonian citizens. Since then, all children whose parents do not have citizenship will automatically receive Estonian citizenship. An important step has been taken. And we've made some other important changes. For example, a minor cannot be deprived of citizenship. When he grows up, he has time to decide which country he is a citizen of. Children cannot go and ask Russia to be released from Russian citizenship.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U65	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U66	Janek Mäggi, Minister of State Administration, asks Tiina Kangro.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U67	Thank you. The objective of the administrative reform has been stressed from the outset that larger municipalities are able to provide better services to the public. In the case of social services, however, I keep hearing from people that the situation has got worse for them since the municipalities joined. The parish house is farther away, foreign people working there, bureaucracy has grown, and the availability of services in many places has become much worse. Now my question: please explain what was based on the claim that the new municipalities have greater capacity. Was it simply hoped that this would happen, or was this expectation based on specific analyses and knowledge?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U68	Thank you very much. Larger local authorities, of course, do not necessarily guarantee better services. That, of course, is true. Governance at both national and local level depends primarily on the people who organise it. I know very different sizes of local authorities, where things are good, moving in the right direction, but I also know others where the local leaders themselves are not happy with the way things have gone. The main obstacle has been people-to-people contradictions. But, of course, we are monitoring whether all the services that people need are available. I believe that local authorities can and will decide for themselves what specific services are on their territory. And they can be somewhat different in different municipalities. We can look at the age characteristics of the population: if the average age in Piirissaare is approximately 67 years and the average age in Viimsi is less than 40 years, then, of course, the services offered are different. But I certainly believe that the size of a municipality is not the number one factor. Financial capacity is important, which sometimes does not depend so much on the number of inhabitants as on the area where a particular local authority is. I believe that this process will continue and we will be able to harmonise the level of services.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U69	Tiina Kangro, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U70	I understand that, in your opinion, the area of social services was not an argument at all in connection with the merger of rural municipalities. After all, individual services that come directly from people could be provided much better by a small municipality. I want to ask you another question. Now the trend is that municipalities do not have the capacity and the state, through its institutions, is stacking new layers of bureaucracy on top. These people are in control of what's happening. Have you made any calculations on this? Will you also monitor the costs of how much more expensive the post-administrative social system could be for us?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U71	The aim of the administrative reform was not to save money. The objective of the administrative reform was better services, higher quality services, capacity building. In any case, I want all the people in every corner of Estonia to receive the services they need. The question is undoubtedly that the dislocation outside the larger cities is associated with very, very high costs and that local authorities have to decide what compromises they are making. After the administrative reform, the size of the municipalities remains very different, but the success of the local government and the quality of its services do not depend on it. Depends on whether there are visionary leaders who have the right ideas and who care about their community. However, I believe that in all 79 municipalities this care is very high. If people-to-people conflicts could be resolved, the situation would be even better.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U72	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U73	Thank you very much. Yesterday, the Committee on Social Affairs highlighted the fact that the amount or percentage spent on social protection in local government budgets has decreased, despite the fact that we have an ageing population. And very often we hear from the Ministry of Social Affairs that the money for social services that local authorities can apply for from the state remains unused. Local authorities' initiative to apply for this money is small. My question is: could employees in the administration of the Minister of Public Administration cooperate with the Ministry of Social Affairs in any way so that local governments have more information about the possibilities they have with the support of the state to help their residents?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U74	Thank you very much. Of course, we are working with both the Ministry of Social Affairs and other ministries, in essence, with everyone. And I think it's pretty easy to solve a lot of problems that are repeated in local governments. If there is a problem in ten or twenty municipalities that does not require extraordinary expenses, it can be solved. But the reality is that social protection is taking a very large share of the budget of the Estonian state and that is where we remain on the average of the European Union, and I do not remember a significant percentage. We have individual areas where we are well ahead of the European average, such as national defence and also culture. At the same time, we have other areas, also very expensive, where we are much below the average. I think the essence of the problem is that we don't have enough money. The desire to solve things better lies in all local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U75	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U76	Asks Jüri Saar and now answers the Justice Minister Urmas Reinsalu. It'd be really nice. Please, Jüri Island!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister of Justice! Last autumn, the law firm received a report that the Ministry of Justice was about to set up an institute of state law on the initiative of the Ministry of Justice. This led to a deep interest and probably expectations in the lawy community. My question is this: what has become of this idea, the idea for today? How has it progressed?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U78	Thank you, good questioner! This is the practical realisation of the idea, which is designed to strengthen state-law know-how, to interpret national issues precisely in the view of the rule of law and the nation state. May it be taken as a gift from the Ministry of Justice to the Republic of Estonia on the 100th anniversary so that we can define Estonia's sovereignty in increasingly complex international relations and can reflect on changes in fundamental rights over time. It is very important that we have strong support for a state-law idea so that the state lasts over time. The work of the foundation council set up at this Academy of Sciences is managed by the former President of the Supreme Court, Dr. Uno Lõhmus, and legal scientists and judges are also members of the council.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U79	Thank you. Let me ask you a few more details. The original plan was to set up a non-profit organisation. Does this institute, as is currently planned, have nothing to do with the University of Tartu?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U80	Thank you. This capital will undoubtedly work, bearing in mind the principle that resources are allocated to different projects on the basis of objective scientific criteria. This foundation is actually a trust fund; it is not a research institution itself. It is not meant that there will be research there, that people will sit and study any research problems. No, the foundation supports research, no matter what university it is. After all, researchers are also active in this field in Estonia, and the foundation is equally distanced from all public educational institutions in Estonia. The touch is that Professor of the History of Law at the University of Tartu, Dr. Marju Luts-Sootak, is also part of the council, but they have no institutional concern. Of course, I imagine that many of the projects supported by the foundation are the result of the activities of researchers at the University of Tartu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U81	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Based on your last response, please specify. Is only the Foundation Council involved in the development of these projects or ideas, or does this also mean the wider involvement of our legal community? What is the basic principle of all this activity?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U83	The basic principle is that there is certainly cooperation and that all interested parties are informed as much as possible. I am thinking of the scientific community, above all, of law or, more specifically, of the specialists of constitutional law and public law. International cooperation is certainly an important aspect of this work. I do not rule out cooperation projects and initiatives that make legal education in Estonia reach other countries and vice versa, researchers from other countries participate in our work. It is certainly important that the catalogues of projects and ideas, as well as the decisions on the allocation of resources, be transparent, understandable and made in terms of minimum or, rather, the funding of science, I hope, on the basis of maximum requirements, such as the general funding of science in Estonia. It is therefore very important that the President of the Estonian Academy of Sciences also belongs to the council. The Academy of Sciences will certainly contribute with its know-how to the organisation of the work of this foundation, namely in terms of procedures.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U84	Thank you, Minister of Culture in charge of Prime Minister Indrek Saar! Thank you, Members of the Government of the Republic Urmas Reinsalu and Janek Mäggi! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U85	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start the Wednesday hearing. Who wants to hand over drafts and inquiries? Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U86	Good fellows! We are about to finish our period of work, but we still have the opportunity to eliminate one tiny ambiguity that exists in the Estonian legal system. If we move fast, we'll make it. In fact, religious associations invite purely religious people to Estonia, such as clergymen, monks or nuns, to the monasteries. The current Aliens Act requires these people to come here in principle on the basis of a work visa. But these people do not come here to work; these people come here to carry out their freedom of religion as promised in the Republic of Estonia. As a result, seven members of the Riigikogu are from the Centre Party and the Fatherland, and two are stratified delegates, proposing that the clergy, monks and nuns be exempt from the requirement that they have a certain legal income because they sort of come to work here. They don't really come here to work. We should categorize these people right. In order to ensure that this provision of the law is not misused, the invitation sent by the religious community should be coordinated with the Ministry of the Interior. So we really only mean the hundreds of people who come to our monasteries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U87	I have adopted one draft, on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act, we will proceed with this. Incoming check, please! The assembly has 78 members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U88	Let's go to today's agenda. The first point is the second reading of the draft 772 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Increasing the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development' presented by the Government of the Republic. The presentation shall be made on behalf of the Committee on Finance by Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U89	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft decision was discussed by the Commission on 14 January. No amendments were received. We reviewed the text and decided to propose to the Riigikogu that the draft be put to the vote. A small remark here that there was a Commission representative in Mr Kõiva at first reading, but since he was unable to be here today, the Commission decided that the chairman of the committee would come before you. The contents of the draft act are briefly that Estonia will increase its participation in this bank by 202 shares, the total amount of which is 2.97 million euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U90	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Mikhail Stalnukhin! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiations, we are going to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, please pay attention! This bill requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu for adoption. In this connection, please, we'll do a presence check! 76 members of the Riigikogu are currently present. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, 'Improving the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development'. Please take a stand and vote. 78 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the draft, no one opposed, one abstention. Draft Decision 772 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U91	Next on our agenda is the third reading of the draft law amending the law on the organisation of local government initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the related amendment of other laws. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Arto Aas Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U92	Honourable Riigikogu! Before the vote, I would like to express the warm support of the Reform Party for this draft, which we have been at the birth of, and which we have fully supported in this Riigikogu. The aim is to change quite a number of rules on how local governments and public authorities should behave in order to reduce the risk of corruption. The most important point is perhaps that we wish to supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure and include the principle that, if the State, the local government or any other public authority has suffered damage, but no civil action has been brought on its behalf to compensate for the damage, then in future, this civil action or claim may be brought by the Public Prosecutor's Office on behalf of the State or local authority. Of course, the motivation for change comes from life itself. There are quite a number of examples from Ida-Virumaa in particular, but these cases can also be found in Tallinn, where the corrupt officials of the municipality cause damage, maybe get rich and maybe get punished, maybe sit a little bit. Later, they will get their job back in the same municipality, and no one will demand the damage caused by them, although the municipality, its inhabitants, has suffered damage. The risk of such situations is particularly high when the monopoly power has long been in the hands of one party. To this end, we would like to make an amendment to the law so that, in the future, if the local authority itself does not want to claim such damage, the prosecutor's office can do so. In our opinion, this will hopefully improve Estonia's political culture and lead to the fact that, if damage has been caused, it will be demanded of corruption and criminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U93	There is no further wish for negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, the draft 574 also requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership for adoption. That's why the presence check, please! There are currently 80 members of the Riigikogu. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the law on the organisation of local government initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the related amendment of other laws 574. Please take a stand and vote. 79 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, there was no one against, there were no abstentions. The Act amending the Local Government Organisation Act initiated by the Constitutional Commission and related amendments to other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U94	The third reading of § 14 of the Act on the organisation of health services initiated by the members of the Riigikogu, Mark Soosaare, Helmen Küti, Jüri Jaanson and Andres Metsoja. I'm opening negotiations. Helmen Kütt, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U95	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! From the very beginning, I say that the Social Democrats support this bill becoming a law. Upon the entry into force of the Act, the general medical care provider may also provide radiology services in the form of X-rays and sonographic examinations within the framework of his licence. The emphasis is on the word'may'. However, it is even more important that this service can only be provided if all the requirements for study selection, space, apparatus and personnel training are met, if there is cooperation with the radiologist, the results of the studies are archived in the picture bank and the requirements established under the radiation law are also met. As a result, safety and quality are the most important. The doctor's responsibility not to harm the patient is not going anywhere. The draft law was initiated on 21 September 2016. The initiators were members of three parliamentary groups: Jüri Jaanson, Andres Metsoja, Mark Soosaar and Helmen Kütt. The accusations made in yesterday's Postman that the radiology was not involved in the draft debate are unfounded. The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft with stakeholders on 16 May 2017 and representatives of the Estonian Association of Family Doctors, Health Board, Estonian Radiology Association, Estonian Health Insurance Fund and Ministry of Social Affairs participated in the discussion of the committee. The Estonian Radiology Society was represented by its vice-president, Dr Rein Raudsepp. Legally, substantive diagnostics are still excluded at the primary level of medical medicine at family doctor's centres. Nearly 2/3 of patients in emergency care departments and specialised specialists in a narrower field are people who could receive good medical care at a family doctor's centre near home, but are forced to turn elsewhere to get the right diagnosis first. As a result, patients who really need the help of a specialist or emergency department will also suffer. I would like to say, in the interests of the verbatim report, that there is no rush to process this bill. The draft has been launched in 2016, today on 23 January 2019. I will read the reply of Agris Koppel, Head of the Health System Development Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, which he gave at the meeting of the Social Affairs Committee on 14 January when the Commission discussed the referral of the University of Tartu, the Estonian Society of Radiology, the medical sciences field of the University of Tartu, the Institute of Clinical Medicine, the Radiology Clinic and the Estonian Society of Radiology Engineering. I quote: 'The wording of the draft and the proposals that have been drawn up today are good for the ministry and give the general medical care provider a better and easier opportunity to start providing radiology services. " Agris Koppel pointed out that the amendment to the bill would in no way invalidate the current requirements. The main requirement is, however, that the doctor who assesses the outcome of the X-ray or sonographic examination must have the necessary knowledge. The provision of the service must continue to be governed by the radiation law. As regards the competence of doctors to interpret radiological research, it would be particularly easier to do research at family centres. These basic knowledge, such as diagnostic signs of pneumonia or even in case of bone fracture suspicion, will be available to doctors during their basic education and residency. Good fellows! I would like to conclude by saying that 61 health and family medicine centres will be established in Estonia. If we give family doctors the opportunities and rights to carry out simpler studies at the first level in these centres, we will guarantee people closer to home medical services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U96	Honourable Chairman of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Henn Põlluaas, will Peeter Ernits participate in the negotiations from place to place on behalf of your group? If so, you could bring a letter here with its contents. We're in the middle of a negotiation. There is no further wish for negotiations, we are going to the final vote. 70 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 2 against and no abstentions. § 14 of the Health Services Organisation Act supplementing the Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U97	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the building code initiated by Riigikogu members Andres Metsoja, Tanel Talve, Erki Savisaare, Urve Palo, Toomas Pauri, Märt Sults, Dmitri Dmitriyev, Toomas Väinaste, Barbi Pilvre, Hardi Volmeri, Hannes Hanso, Jaanus Marrandi, Heljo Pikhofi, Toomas Jürgenstein, Valeri Korbi, Peeter Ernitsa, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Krista Aru, Külliiki Kübarsse, Marko Pomerantsi and Raivo Aegi. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiations, we are going to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Construction Code 703. Please take a stand and vote. Please check why a vigilante cannot vote. Is anyone going to look? I shall cancel the result of the vote. Break five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U98	Dear Riigikogu, we are discussing the fourth item on the agenda. The final vote on the draft 703 is underway. We have to do it again. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Construction Code 703. Please take a stand and vote. There are 73 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft, no respondents and no abstentions. The law amending the Building Code has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U99	We begin the second reading of Bill 772 of the Law on the Flag and Ship Registers Act, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic, and the Income Tax Act and related amendments to other laws. The presentation shall be made on behalf of the Economic Commission by Sven Sester, Chairman of the Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U100	Dear Chairman, Dear Members, I'm gonna give you an overview of the bill, number 722. This is the second reading of the draft law amending the law on the flag law and the ship's registers and the Income Tax Act and other related laws. In particular, I will give an overview of the procedure that has taken place between the first reading and the second reading. I will no longer dwell on the main objectives of the draft, as we have already talked about them at first reading. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 15 October last year. The first reading took place on 7 November and by the deadline for submitting amendments, a total of 10 amendments were received from the Riigikogu by 21 November. These were from the faction of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and from the members of the Riigikogu, Mrs Arult, Mr Herkel, Mrs Kübarsep and Tarmo Kruusimäe. During the procedure, the Commission was approached by a large number of representatives of the shipping sector and other parties involved in this area because of their activities, who proposed amendments to the draft, raised objections or expressed their support for the views of the initiator. New wordings for previous proposals were also proposed. Following the first reading of the 722 SE, organisations such as the Estonian Ship Managers' Association, the Estonian Seafarers' Independent Trade Union, ESC Global Security, the Estonian Shipowners' Association together with the Maritime Advisory Board, the Logistics and Transit Association together with the Estonian Shipowners' Association and the Estonian Farbusers' Association addressed the Commission. The committee also asked the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu for an opinion on two issues raised during the proceedings. The representative of the initiator of the draft act also sent his proposals for amendment and communicated his views on the proposals contained in the letters from the stakeholders to the Commission on an ongoing basis. Those views were, in turn, communicated by the Commission to the complainants so that they could take note of them. At the meeting of the Economic Commission on 4 December, all persons who had sent their proposals to the Commission could participate, if they so wished. So they were able to present and justify their views directly. All opinions and suggestions, as well as all other material relating to Bill 722, are available on the website of the Riigikogu in electronic form. A number of proposals were received from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, most of which were formulated by the initiator's representative at the meeting of the Commission and as a result of discussions in the working group. The draft also went through the language department between the two readings. Between the two readings, a fundamental decision to tax the income of Estonian residents working on ships subject to special tax treatment for the international carriage of goods or passengers by sea and of non-residents working with an Estonian taxable employer at a rate of 0% has been accepted by the Commission and introduced into the text of the draft as the most important amendment. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft at four meetings during the period between first and second readings. On 4 December, as I mentioned earlier, the Committee on Economic Affairs met with representatives of the maritime sector to discuss the opinions received on the draft, to hear the views of the initiator's representatives and the Maritime Administration. All the proposals received for this draft were dealt with by every single one of them. The participants in the meeting had been given a discussion plan to move forward. It included not only proposals but also the positions of the Ministry and Maritime Administration on each received proposal. At this meeting on 4 December, all the parties were given the floor, there was a debate and all the members of the Commission took note of their views. There were no votes yet at this committee meeting. Now, on 10 December, a week later, another meeting of the Commission was called by representatives of the initiator and specialists from the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Finance, the Health Insurance Fund and the Maritime Administration. The members of the Commission, together with the representatives of the initiators of the draft and the specialists of the ministries, re-examined all the proposals from the outset to the end and began to formulate views on which proposals from the sector could be formulated by the Commission as amendments to the lead committee and which were not. Taxation issues were further addressed. The Commission decided to ask the representatives of the initiator to prepare a correct package of amendments setting a zero rate of income tax. We also asked for attention to be paid to the procedural issues related to the application for a State aid authorisation and to give us feedback on this. The next meeting took place about a month later, on January 15th. Representatives and specialists from the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Finance, the Maritime Administration, as well as advisor to the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu were then invited to the meeting of the committee. The advisor who prepared the legal analysis also commented on the question raised by the Estonian seafarers' union on the regulation contained in the draft, which concerns the social guarantees of Estonian seafarers on various ships and possible contradiction with the Constitution. The Councillor felt that there was no conflict with the Constitution. The officials presented their views on each amendment and eventually finalised some of the proposals in the form of proposals from the Commission. The biggest discussion arose over Amendment 10 on the application of the rate of income tax of 0%. Of course, all these amendments are on our website. Our last meeting took place on January 21st, a few days ago. We had also invited specialists from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications as well as from the Maritime Administration. The Commission also reviewed the technical specifications of the two amendments and voted on them again. The decisions were consensual. We also discussed Amendment 7, which we had previously decided to refer to this meeting on 21 January. This proposal clarifies the deadlines laid down in the implementing provision and was supported by the Commission. If we look at the amendments as a whole, we can see that the proposals 1, 4 to 10, 13, 14, 17 and 22 to 26 are the Commission's own proposals, the rest being made by the various parties. In summary, the Commission's final decisions were such. I am not going to dwell on the amendments one by one, if I wish, then I can comment on them in the round of questions. The Committee on Economic Affairs decided to put this draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 23 January, or today, to propose the termination of the second reading and, if the second reading is completed, to refer the draft to a third reading on 13 February 2019. If you notice, it's three weeks between 23 January and 13 February. The reason why the difference between the two readings is so long is precisely because it is the time when the initiators will send a prior notification of State aid to the European Commission. Thank you. I'm ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U101	Questions for the waitress. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U102	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Chairman of the Economic Commission. This time, the Committee on Economic Affairs ignored, to a very significant extent, the position of the initiator of the draft as regards the rate of income tax. The compromise proposed by the Government of the Republic was that income tax could be included in the tax base of EUR 750, but the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs found support that this tax rate could be 0%. I have two questions about this. Is the position of the Government of the Republic on this zero rate known today? Secondly, what is the economic impact of this decision on the state budget in the context of the revenue gap and how much on the other hand can we expect additional revenue if the objectives set out in this draft are realised?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U103	Thank you. That is a very good, very relevant question. I will begin by asking the first question whether the government gathered separately to discuss this 0%. There is no separate government. This issue was also reflected in the Commission. Our protocol states that the government has discussed this 0% rate at its earlier meetings before this specific draft came to Parliament. I would point out that there was a compromise proposal from the government. The various parties also had different opinions at the level of officials at the government meeting and, finally, a compromise was chosen: income tax would tax EUR 750, with a tax rate of 20%. The government did not form an additional position at a later stage. The draft has already reached Parliament, and this Parliament is the place of final discussion. The process will, of course, end with the President's signature when he puts it in. And why wouldn't he do that? The second question was what a possible change would cost if we chose a 0% rate. And then there's the additional question we have to win. Let's look at these two things at once, which we have to win if there's a 0% rate. I'm quoting to you the data I have. The current figures are that in 2015 the Estonian Tax and Customs Board carried out an analysis for 2014. The original data contained a list of persons entered in the seafarers' register. This is where the service personnel, the linework, the management of all who are in this so-called seafarers' register are entered. The total number of persons analysed at that time was 8862. If we know we're operating on 9,000 to 10,000 people, it kind of gives us some kind of picture. Of these 8862 people, 396 declared foreign income this year, or about 400. The rest did not declare foreign income. That's 3.5%. And now, if we look further, we can see that these individuals declared this income in the order of EUR 10.1 million, which was received into the state budget by EUR 2 million. EUR 2 million was paid into the state budget at that time! If it is transferred to today's day and based on the data we currently have available, it has been argued that the situation in 2017 is basically comparable to the situation in 2014-2015. We are still talking about 400 employees in the order of magnitude, and perhaps the revenues have increased a little. The orders of magnitude are that if we were talking about EUR 10.1 million earlier, we could now talk about up to EUR 14 million. So we're talking about what we're talking about. If, in turn, we take income tax from here and start discussing it from behind, then we will find that the maximum loss of tax revenue could then amount to EUR 2.7 million. It must, of course, be borne in mind that the right to benefit from this tax credit is limited to persons working on ships engaged in the transport of goods and passengers with a gross tonnage of at least 500 tonnes and bearing the flag of the Contracting State of the European Economic Area. Before we even talked about people who work on different ships. As far as the ships mentioned above are concerned, the potential real loss of tax revenue is much less than that of 2.7 million. There was a long answer, but I also answered at length for the sake of the verbatim report to make it clear what we're talking about. Specialists say that this maximum loss could be 2.7 million, but the actual number is definitely smaller because there are certain criteria in force for which you can use the so-called special regime. Now for profit, too. Pros-minus always go hand in hand and I mention the pluses. I have the most recent data received today and will share them with others if anyone has an interest in the Committee on Economic Affairs as a matter of priority and after all other members of the Riigikogu as well. I just got the calculations from the Maritime Administration. It's very interesting to see what we can expect when we go from 20% to zero. If 20% was expected to generate some revenue for the State, what change could happen if we go to zero? If you ask where this income comes from, it certainly comes from three factors. Firstly, possible future tonnage fees. I would point out that this is a completely new opportunity for the shipowner or the owner of the ship. There has never been a tonnage tax before. Reeder can choose whether he or she will pay income tax to the Estonian state on the income he or she earns or the tonnage tax, for which it is no longer important how much he or she earns. Tonnage charges, certainly shore-based charges and possible future registration fees, these three are the sources from which higher revenues should come. The current very recent impact assessment says that the Maritime Administration expects about 60 ships to come to our register within seven years. I know that a former member of the Riigikogu, Jaanus Rahumägi, has stated that what we are talking about here is tens and hundreds, we could talk about thousands. It's life, isn't it? But yes, according to estimates by the Maritime Administration, there could be more than 60 ships, and this forecast has also been put into the so-called monetary currency. They have calculated, taking into account different tonnages, that this could mean an additional EUR 14 million over a period of seven years. And when they look at the longer term, their calculations show that at some point this extra money could exceed 5% of GDP. That's a pretty big part! If we think we have more than 20 billion GDP, 5% or even 5.2% of it is a very large sum. But we're talking about 2060. And they have also given examples of how the revenue base has increased in other countries where such steps have been taken. I'm sorry for the long answer, but I tried to give you some exhaustive information.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U104	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U105	Good manager! Good waitress! When your party partner, Admiral Tarmo Kõuts, came up with a similar bill and said that this 'zero base' was the only solution, I've been looking at the protocols so much that you and your party opposed it. Now you've changed your mind, and that's positive. But explain why, in your time, you resisted the initiative and the bill of Admiral Kõuts, the great admiral of the party partner and the maritime industry.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U106	Thank you. I'm trying to stay within the limits of this bill, but if you know me, of course I'm trying to answer all the questions I'm being asked. I am not saying that this was not discussed at the committee meeting. So I'm still trying to answer. I do not really believe that, by looking at the earlier protocols, we could say that we were specifically opposed to this draft. It would perhaps be fair to respond in such a way that, in time, the whole of our country has changed its understanding of how to make possible differences. That might be the correct answer. After all, this is a tax distinction in the sense that a group gets the right to some kind of distinction. In the meantime, we had such a view that there must be no distinction for differences of zero tolerance. In my opinion, it would be reasonable to base itself on the principle that as few distinctions as possible and as many as necessary. And they must be very well-targeted; every distinction must certainly be properly thought through. I think if we make this distinction, it'll give the sector more.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U107	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U108	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The Committee on Economic Affairs has really done a lot of work on this bill, and the draft has changed radically. Would you also enlighten us on the fact that social guarantees are very important to seafarers? I am thinking of the existence and suitability of statutory social guarantees. The Shipowners' Association was very busy participating in the meetings of the Commission. What position was reached? Does this bill satisfy sailors, even sailors?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U109	Thank you. Yes, these issues have also been handled nicely in the Commission. In the future, there will be an opportunity to do so at present, which is not a voluntary insurance policy. I know that your proposal was to allow even more flexibility to perhaps look at it in a shorter period than a year. Right now, basically, they're stuck with a year's drive. But basically there really is insurance in terms of "health insurance." True, if there is a sailor on board a ship, this insurance is based on certain rules of so-called shipowners' insurance. If a sailor gets off the ship, he'll have his own insurance. He can get that insurance now, he can go and sign a contract like this with the health insurance fund. It's like this side is covered.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U110	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U111	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, There is a difference in this bill, which also bothers me a little bit in person. These are, as we know, a number of points where State aid is involved, which requires authorisation from the European Commission. The practice so far has been that a State aid permit has been applied for in the second reading, that the second reading has been suspended, that the European Commission has been approached, and that the draft has been waiting until it has been answered, that the second reading has been continued and that the third reading has finally come. In this case, for some reason this normal procedure has not been followed. What is the reason? Has the Ministry of Finance taken a new position that, in the case of drafts requiring authorisation of State aid from the European Commission, it will continue to be requested only after the third reading has been adopted?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U112	Thank you. First of all, this is not a draft by the Ministry of Finance, it is a draft by the Government of the Republic. Perhaps the Ministry of Economic Affairs, viewed by the Committee on Economic Affairs, is the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. But it is true that there have been many parties involved in this draft process, including several ministries. Really, the Ministry of Finance is one of them, and the Ministry of Social Affairs is the other. But the main challenge has been borne by the Maritime Administration, which has been most involved in this process. As regards the state aid permit, the government also sent information to those members of the Riigikogu who are not as involved in this process as members of the Economic Committee, that a draft was sent to the Riigikogu, where it is foreseen that the draft will pass three readings and that a request for state aid will be submitted as a prior notification between the second and third readings. The Economic Commission examined separately Mr Toomas Kivimägi can confirm that this is not once, but at several meetings, whether it is correct, whether it corresponds to all the nobility of the law, whatever it may be. As chairman of the committee, I raised this issue, if I am not mistaken, at three meetings of the committee in order to make sure that it is correct, that this can be done. A separate analysis was carried out in this regard. And to sum up, you could say yes, you could do that. Examples were also provided from other European countries. By the way, we and, for example, Germany have had a slightly different practice. If we have really done so, as the questioner stated, that there has never been such a practice before, then there is nothing unusual about it in Germany if the draft law passes its three readings and after that comes a state aid permit. It is certainly important, however, that the law cannot apply until the State aid permit has arrived. The questioner wanted to know if this practice would become common practice in the future, whether it would be the case in all subsequent times. That's what I owe the answer to. Life shows whether this practice is an exception or whether there are proportions in the future for example 50:50. Unfortunately, I don't know what to say because I'm not a government representative. But it was political will this time to move at such a pace. It is certainly important for Parliament whether progress in this procedure is correct, in accordance with the law. And I can assure you that it is correct, it is consistent with the law, it is nothing unusual in the context of the European Union. Yes, we have not moved in this way before, but now this situation has arisen.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U113	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U114	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I am talking about Amendment 18, with which we also wanted to make the shore sector more competitive. At first, the great aim was not only to grant a tax credit to seafarers, but also to make our shoreline sector more competitive along the Baltic Sea. I ask this question: if the officials replied in the same way, though the opposite, did they give misleading answers, do you think that the Commission would be of the opinion that we could, by this law, give some kind of signal or create an advantage so that our shore sector could compete better with the shore sectors of the other Baltic Sea countries and bring money to Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U115	Thank you. As I have already stated, if we are to create a situation where seafarers on ships using a special regime have zero income tax, which means that no matter how much this tax has been collected so far, it will no longer be collected in the future, then we must certainly guarantee some other revenues in the future. I also mentioned earlier what potential future sources of revenue are. One is our record keeping, the other is the future tonnage tax that the shipowners could pay, and the third is our shore sector. The shoreline sector should definitely evolve. There have even been estimates of how much a ship could in the future work in the shore sector. This is certainly different for the different registers. I would point out that, according to this draft, we will have a completely new situation. There is currently one ship register in Estonia. If this law is passed, there will be two registers. One register is for those who work here in Estonia and are registered in Estonia and, to some extent, are more related to the shore sector. The second register is where the ship in the list may never come to the port of Estonia. There are big ocean ships. We have two registers with two different fees. If the first registry fees are cost-based, then the second register is more attractive in the eyes of shipowners and these fees are not cost-based, they are agreed fees. Once again, a long answer was received, but I would like to say that Estonia is interested in the development of the shore register.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U116	Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U117	Thank you. This is a long-term draft and, in general, it is moving in the right direction. The Maritime Administration must also be commended for this, despite the fact that we have had a small debate over zero-rate income tax. But I'm asking you this now. After all, this sector itself is very interesting and nuanced. Among other things, driving under the flag of a state does not mean that taxes will be collected there, and the bill does not mean that if Estonian sailors now have a zero tax option, the ship will come to Estonia with its tonnage and registration and shore services fees. And this tax exemption also extends to people who work on a cruise ship in the Caribbean. How do you comment on that? We in the Commission hardly discussed whether tonnage and registration fees are attractive enough for ships to come under the flag of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U118	Thank you. I think our debate in the Commission was very constructive. Many of the questions raised and on which we asked various specialists gave us the opportunity to clarify and supplement the draft. I'm sure you've noticed that there's a lot of clarification in this bill. Perhaps more has been said about the zero-percent income tax rate, but in fact we have also made a number of other changes to the draft. I think it will certainly be a part of our debate in the Commission on a number of issues. But the question really is whether the steps we are taking today will make Estonia attractive. It must not happen as the questioner described in one of the potential scenarios that we are abandoning the current source of tax for this zero percentage and that there is no real revenue. Could such a scenario be triggered? Today, we can base ourselves both on me as chairman of the committee and on those experts who advise us in the public sector. Above all, we look at the Maritime Administration, which communicates most with interest groups and makes plans and analyses of possible changes. These projections say that this legislative change will increase the likelihood of ships coming here. I would point out that the proposal from the government, which provided for EUR 750 and 20%, is also a distinction. However, market participants stated that this distinction is unlikely to be sufficient to attract interest in the Estonian register. Yes, the Estonian register will probably be less bureaucratic, more manageable and better digitized, I expect that this will be the case. But since the entrepreneur counts money, there is still no coming. Now, with these steps, we will increase the likelihood of ships entering this register. If that happens, we'll see about that in the future. As they always say, we would have been so wise when an event happened. But the sense of experts and the will of decision-makers is that ships should come here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U119	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U120	Good manager! Waitress! I will continue on the subject of the previous question. When you and IRL opposed this bill and the party partner Tarmo Kõuts at the time, we had two other cargo ships under the Estonian flag. There aren't any now. Now you've changed your mind, you're positively tuned. But this bill now only concerns merchant ships that we no longer have. At the same time there is a quiet departure from the Estonian flag of passenger ships. Do you think passenger ships should have been included in this bill? Maybe we'll be late again, just like when there were two other cargo ships, but we said no. Now the passenger ships are going away quietly, but we didn't take them into the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U121	Thank you. It's always interesting to debate with EKRE. You're throwing things in the air, and once the fact checks have looked at them, it turns out all these claims have been wrong. In that sense, there's a strange debate going on with you. One of them claims something from a sense of knowledge. I mean, what you just said here is that passenger ships are leaving the register. Perhaps you can specify which passenger ships have left? What is your statement based on? I don't know these facts right now. But if you go to your question and leave your introduction aside, then, true story, we are now focusing specifically on merchant ships and precisely on those merchant ships that sail in so-called international waters. Those merchant ships that carry goods from one port to another in our country are not considered. Cargo ships operating in international waters are covered by the draft and, by the way, passenger ships operating outside the EEA zone. Passenger ships travelling in the so-called European zone are not included here and it has been political will.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U122	Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U123	Thank you. Maybe as chairman of the committee, you're gonna open up a little debate that's been going around this rate of income tax. After all, there was a long search for compromise in the government, and we were told that at that point the representatives of the sector themselves were in agreement that if this tax burden, if the tax burden per employee is 300 euros, then everything will be fine and we will be competitive. Such lower rates and exceptions are also available in other countries. This big picture is important and everything is fine in that sense. Now a different solution was born in the Commission, and you did not open that debate much in your presentation. Why don't you give me a few words of enlightenment for the sake of history?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U124	Thank you. I, of course, can shed the greatest light on the Commission's debate. I'm not a member of the government right now, and I'm having a hard time enlightening the government debate, which I don't have a very good view of. As far as I can tell, I also answered Thomas Kivimäe's question. I have nothing to deny. I honestly said that the zero rate was also discussed in the government and that a compromise was finally reached: EUR 750 and 20%. It finally came to the Riigikogu. Who was in the government arguing about the very probability that there was no vote. As you yourself remember as a former member of the government, there are generally no votes there, but in the end it was a compromise. I will be able to comment on what we have had in the Commission. In the Commission, as you yourself mentioned, it seemed that interest groups might have agreed to move forward with such a position. You have read all the letters that the parties have sent to the Committee on Economic Affairs. And from these letters, we see that this is not the case. It is interesting in this sense that if we read these letters For example, one category has said that the captain should be, say, an Estonian passport, an Estonian citizen or at least a percentage of the captains should be. The other lobby has been fundamentally against it. There are further examples that one category finds one and another category finds another. Why did I give this example? But because, in this 0% part, all interest groups are, then, on the union side or on the owner side, in the same mind. Everyone agrees! At a meeting of the Commission, everyone was at the table, and we really went through absolutely the last amendment, the last letter that had been sent to us. It was a long meeting where all the parties were at the table. And then it was actually clearly stated that the question is what our goal is. A solution of EUR 750 and 20% would, unfortunately, not meet our objective. It was a message coming from behind the desk. We simply would not achieve our goal. We can go on with this, but let's not say afterwards that ships are unlikely to come under the flag of Estonia or not at the rate we expect. These were issues which were discussed by the Commission and which are also reflected in the minutes of the sitting. We recorded this meeting with the interest groups very thoroughly, it is, you could say, almost a verbatim. Well, it's not exactly a verbatim, but it's a very thorough overview of all the sentences and positions you've heard, including counterpositions, in the protocol.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U125	Kristen Michal.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U126	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! We both remember that this project started to move around the time one of us was the Minister of Finance, the other Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. I therefore think that we are both quite happy that it has reached somewhere, despite the fact that there have been debates on certain details. Can you explain two things? Firstly, with the adoption and entry into force of this particular act, we will not achieve the whole expected result. In fact, the wave of change is planned in about three stages. And secondly, do you have any information today that we also dealt with at first reading, and I asked the Minister then whether any further progress on this activity has been financed? Previous activities were partly funded by the EAS and may have ended. The minister said he'd find an answer to that. Just in case, I'm gonna ask you a question, and maybe you're gonna ask me to answer it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U127	Thank you. I'll start from afar again, as usual. First of all, yes, as the question in the introduction sounded, Kristen Michal and I both need not be ashamed of what has been done in history. I remember that was the time when we got together and asked for more top officials from both sides and gave them a clear political task to take this issue forward in depth. Indeed, the Director General of the Maritime Administration, the Director General of the Tax Administration and the Deputy Chancellors are responsible for policy making and for communicating information to politicians. I am very pleased, as you have stated, that this bill, long made and beautiful, is here on the table today. We really are in a situation where there may be a real change. We have very much talked about tax changes today, but I will say once again that, if we look at the various components of this draft, we will certainly make history in this sense that this draft has taken different directions from the previous one. Once again, I stress the same tonnage tax that has never been before. Now the shipowners have the opportunity. Forward, split into two registers that never existed before. We have a register. Plus possible voluntary contracts with the Health Insurance Fund, let alone a special tax regime. Very many changes. I think this is definitely a remarkable moment. As regards the funding that you asked about, whether the Maritime Administration would have funding if the law came into force, we really have to take into account the fact that the Maritime Administration will have a completely new obligation. There will be a single contact point to communicate in Estonian and English 24 hours a day. The Agency shall be given clear guidelines. Unfortunately, I have to admit I owe you an answer. In the Commission's view, this information was not touched separately, and there is no point in me proposing any numbers here if I do not have this information. But we can ask that. I imagine that during the state budget procedure, it may have been difficult to channel additional money into it, but perhaps not. We should look at the budget. But let us not forget that this law was not passed when the budget was processed. But I'm sure there'll be extra costs, mostly for the Maritime Administration. And that money must be found. It would be strange if the law had entered into force, but it could not be implemented because the necessary specialist could not be recruited or the necessary procedural procedures could not be carried out. Ministers will certainly have to redefine their priorities in this case. That is now also for the sake of the verbatim.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U128	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U129	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Committee on Economic Affairs. The draft law states very different dates for entry into force. How have they been reached? And secondly, now that we have two separate registers coming up, are the preparations for the implementation of the two registers on schedule and are this preparation really at such a level that two registers can be used?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U130	Thank you. So let's talk about the deadlines. Once again, to make it a better picture, I will first explain how this bill came to the Riigikogu and how it will potentially exit. He came to the Riigikogu with basically several different implementation times. It was assumed that anything other than the State Aid Guidelines or the State Aid Authorisation could be put into effect on 1 January this year. It was actually, let's be honest, even when the bill came from the government, it was unrealistic. The draft could not have been dealt with in such a short period. All of this related to the State aid authorisation should have entered into force in the same way on 1 January, the law on taxes, which should enter into force on 1 January, but on 1 January 2020. That was the bill when he came to the Riigikogu. We made some changes. That's the deal we made. We took out the dates. I think it's correct. We have written that the law will enter into force on 1 January next year after the granting of the State aid authorisation. I've just been using the spoken language, and the exact formulation is black and white. However, in the language of speech, it could be said that the law will enter into force on 1 January of the year following the authorisation of State aid, but with a small clause. The clause states that if the authorisation of State aid should come after 1 October and if it involves any change, the law will enter into force on 1 January of the following year. Suppose this process takes Europe for some reason, I don't see why, but let's assume it happens for a whole year, that the permit will come to us this year, I'm really just giving this example in November. We have established that the law will enter into force on 1 January next year. But let's assume that with the permit, we have some kind of change to make. If there is no need for change, there is no problem, but if there is a need for change, we still need to be able to deal with it. However, we only have a few working weeks until the end of the year. In such a case, there will be a preconceived possibility to enforce the law on 1 January of the following year. All of this has been reviewed with state aid permission specialists from the Ministry of Finance as well as with the people of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Of course, our committee's hard-working officials have contributed, or indeed one official who deals with it and has been very thorough.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U131	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U132	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! What is the probability that this State aid permit will not come? And could this zero income tax rate put pressure on Parliament and the government in the sense that other sectors will also want a certain degree of differentiation? Do you see this danger and have discussed it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U133	Thank you. You're close to me, but I didn't hear you. Did you mean maybe there's no state aid permit or something? Which one did you mean? [[The gravel answers from the floor.]] Yeah, then I heard right about what happens if it doesn't come. However, I do not understand what is the basis of the assessment that there is a high probability that there will be no State aid authorisation. All the specialists would rather say that the State aid permit will come. This should not take much time, as many other countries in the European Union are now calling for the same. State aid authorisation specialists believe that there should be no major problems. So you're literally the opposite of their opinion. And I really rely on the assessment of state aid authorisation specialists. They think that even a prior notification is more likely to go out than a basic communication, but rather a prior notification, and that there should be no major problems. But life, of course, will show whether it will or will not. As regards the other side of the question, whether or not one or the other can still be requested, whether or not this time it is allowed, it is always possible to apply for differences in the maritime sector as well as in other sectors. For example, long - distance fishermen also wanted a speciality, but it turned out that this was not possible from the point of view of the law. Maybe in some other sector, too. In making the distinctions, as I have already stated, we should be guided by the principle of doing as little as possible and, on the other hand, by as much as is necessary to make a good idea happen. I will give you an example of a speciality that I have already mentioned. It doesn't concern the sea at all. I have been in a coalition with you for a long time before, and I remember that earlier it was about the employer's special advantage, or the employer's ability to pay the employee their health-related costs. God, I don't think we could carry it out for eight years. It is a pure distinction that has now been implemented. They are likely to come in the future. Each request for differentiation must certainly be examined as to whether it has a good purpose and whether the possibility of differentiation clearly fulfils this objective.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U134	Honourable Chairman of the Economic Commission! Thank you very much for the presentation and debate for the debate, which was a formal round of questions and answers! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. As this is a second reading, everyone has the opportunity to speak. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U135	Good President and few other colleagues who are still in the Chamber! During this Riigikogu, I have experienced too often that we are indeed rubber stamps of the government. Bill 722 is an exception. This is a draft, in which we have shown that we are, however, a Riigikogu and we do not blindly endorse the draft sent by the government as it comes to us. That Estonian ships should come under the flag of Estonia has been said for a very long time. Admiral Tarmo Kõuts, a good friend in his time in the Riigikogu, fought for it. At the time, there were two other cargo ships under the Estonian flag. There aren't any now. Tarmo Kõuts, figuratively speaking, ran into a wall, even within his own party. The government has now come up with a bill that has been baked for several years, that we will finally bring cargo ships under the Estonian flag. But the strange thing was that the government was trying to start inventing a bicycle by proposing a 20% tax on EUR 750 instead of a zero-rate income tax, just as all the countries in the world that have wanted to get ships to come under their flag. In short, our government resisted by offering a bicycle that does not need to be invented. Now we come to the fact that I am now referring to the Committee on Economic Affairs, where I work with the unanimous support and position of the sector and said: 'No, government, zero income tax must be imposed. That's the way it is in the world. ' And that's the main argument. Of course, in the meantime, the government even threatened to withdraw the draft if we did not agree with it, but the Committee on Economic Affairs, respect for the Chairman of the Economic Commission, Sven Sester! just said that no, we need to redefine what the shipping sector wants and the rest of the world has approved. Officials said they wouldn't be able to rewrite the bill so quickly, but it was finally done. They didn't make it by Christmas, but at the beginning of the new year, it was on the table. I do not want to talk for a long time, and I am just saying that, in fact, it is probably a working option that has finally been achieved. And I ask you to support it! But it's only part of the topic. This is a means for Estonian cargo ships to come back under the Estonian flag. In fact, the ambition of the draft is much greater. And the far greater goal is that other ships, such as those of the Greeks and many others, come under our flag. The ambition is that it could not make 10 million, 100 million or 200 million, but perhaps even more money. We're talking tonnage tax and registration fee. There is no need to complain about why we are making an exception for seafarers on their income tax. In fact, it is global business and the use of Estonia's opportunities. A few more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U136	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U137	The main argument is that this same income tax of zero percent of seafarers also attracts other ships under the Estonian flag. Otherwise, it's hopeless. When we come back to the last question of the need for a State aid permit from the evil wolf Brussels, it did not occur over the years of the draft, because no distinctions were foreseen. As Mr Sester said, when Admiral Kõuts was in this Chamber, there were no exceptions. You have to strike with one ax, no distinctions. And you don't have to go to Brussels. Then there was nothing else left. In fact, it can be assumed that between today and 12 February, then there should be a third reading of the relevant advance notice to be made. If there's such a jock scheme that we're sending away, the bill can be passed. Let's see what comes later. But the good thing is that the Riigikogu is finally approaching the matter, based on the interests of Estonia and, if necessary, asking permission for exceptions. In this case, it is a State aid authorisation. We do not humbly look at Brussels and say that we are not going to apply for anything; we must not make any distinctions. The Conservative People's Party of Estonia likes it. Differentiations are needed in the interests of their people, be regional, be it in the interests of Estonia as a whole. So that's what I like about the bill, and we like it. At the same time, there are many things that we don't like. Yet, it would be wise and reasonable to support it. Let me remind you, however, that passenger ships are out. Dear Sven Sester asked me what I was saying. Dear Sven, read the report of the Shipmasters' Association, where they confirm that Estonian passenger ships are leaving the Estonian flag. It says black in white, it's not an EKRE or my fantasy. So pay a little attention to what it says! But in the end, we have not, at least, been dealing with this bill with government rubber stamps, and that is something I sincerely welcome. I ask you to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U138	Sven Sester. Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U139	Thank you. I would like to mark out once again some of the important points I have already mentioned in the round of questions and answers, but it would make sense to repeat that again. And I will also talk about a few points that I have not marked, I would like to make clear what we are about to do, why this draft is historic and what a change we are bringing about. The current situation is that there are no merchant ships in Estonia. We're saying that the number of these is going to be 0 around here. I think the Maritime Administration has information that we have one or two cargo ships, but they belong to the state. In essence, we can still talk about the fact that we do not have any merchant ships. And now there is the question of what we have to do, and whether what we are doing will help to ensure that cargo ships come under the flag. And also, what do you need it for? We also discussed in the committee whether we are making these changes for the benefit of the Estonian state or whether we are making these changes for the benefit of one or another interest group. I think it could be handled here. At the meeting of the Commission, the stakeholders stated that they could handle it. There are countries where income tax is 0% already, and they are in their registers. They can do it, they don't have a problem. The Estonian state has a problem. And the problem is, we don't have any cargo ships. We have a problem, not the shipowners! I think that if we proceed from this, we will understand why we need to bring about these changes. We have a problem. We want us to have cargo ships. We want the maritime state to be worthy of its name, so that we are a maritime state with its own ships. If we put this world of thought into place for ourselves, we can make changes with a much lighter heart. As the previous speaker has just said, we want to make changes that strengthen our position as a country. It is in this context that more shipowners and ships could come into our register, which, as I said in the Commission's report, may never come to the port of Estonia. For example, large container ships operating in the oceans. It is important for us to realise that it is with this objective that we are making these changes now. We always confirm that we want to make changes in the interests of businesses. Yes, of course, we are making changes in the interests of entrepreneurs so that they come here. But we are also making these changes in the interests of our Estonian state. Companies currently have the opportunities they want when their ships fly flags from other countries. We want them to come here. One might ask, of course, that if we have 0% income tax on seafarers and in other countries too, why should ships come under our flag? How many countries have zero, why would ships start changing flags? The people of the Maritime Administration stated that not only the income tax on seafarers but also all other fees should be taken into account. The simplicity and speed of services play a role. The global maritime business has become so tense that shipowners are considering changing the register, even if only hundreds of euros are to be won under certain conditions. Especially considering that the ship will never have to travel to our port in particular. A lot of things go digitally to keep a register, and that should be a success for us. We have considerably simpler ways of keeping a register, our knowledge in the digital world is good, we have an e-resident system. If you look at the bill, you will see that it links itself to e-residents. These should be our advantages that are beginning to appear at some point. If we bring the tax to 0%, we'll take the burden off our shoulders, and our advantages will remain. I think it's definitely important. And as I said before when I answered my questions, there are a lot of new nuances. The tonnage tax on a ship is certainly a new nuance that we should mark here. At all, this is a clearly new special income tax regime in Estonia. There has never been a possibility that the shipowner would be able to choose a special regime instead of paying his normal income tax in order to pay a fee on the vessel's tonnage. And when he does, it doesn't matter how much he actually earns. There has never been such a thing in Estonia before; in other parts of the world it is common. In this sense, we are taking steps that have never been taken before. We talked less about social tax today, but there will also be a number of changes to social tax. In principle, a new special social tax scheme will apply to seafarers. The principle of compulsory health insurance is abandoned and the Health Insurance Act gives Estonian seafarers the opportunity to enter into voluntary contracts with the Health Insurance Fund. Once again, a completely new situation. I will now take all this together, as well as being a representative of the Isamaa Group in this panel. Our party strongly supports this bill when it arrives at a third reading at one point. It is nice to note that we are reaching a situation where we can tell shipowners to come under the flag of Estonia, here you have the same fiscal opportunities as in another country, but we can provide you with a better administration, faster, simpler and more comfortable service. I hope we have that opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U140	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U141	Good vice chairman! Good coworkers! I, too, support this draft either way. Whatever happens there, I still support it, because it is a necessary draft. I'm a simple person. Every time we talk about big goals, I immediately believe that these are important things. We in the Committee on Economic Affairs are quite aware of the type of entrepreneurship we are developing and promoting. And for the future, we have quite a lot of plans and ambitions, because we know that Estonia is a very smart country, an e-state. Why, for example, never offer the whole world the service of unmanned cargo ships? If we already have smart education for children in kindergartens, soon our young people will be able to start moving back and forth on their first simple business account, say unmanned cargo ships. But to do so, you need to create a favorable surface. I really believe that we should increase the shore sector. And I have tabled one amendment bearing number 18. It is to be voted on here today and I ask you to support it. This concerns training for seafarers of international standards, which is carried out not only for merchant ships but also for passenger ships. We referred to Lithuania when proposing, but it happened that the ministry officials asked about the matter from Latvia. Well, officials do not know that Lithuania and Latvia are actually two different countries, but they are quite close together. In the Commission, we were told that we were clear, that there were no other arguments. I did, and I asked about it, and it turns out it's not. It is still the case that in Lithuania these services are taxed at 0% of the turnover tax and also in Latvia. Then we received the answer that, obviously, Latvians either give us misinformation or their regulation is contrary to the Euro Directive. You know how many times I've listened to different answers! You don't know what to argue with an official because I'm not that competent in this area. I am not working in a sector where I would be exposed to such legislation. But the fact is, it's a training service. The argument put forward is that, since training is carried out by a private limited company, they may increase the price to recover the so-called lost VAT part, it still seems quite interesting. If you wanted to be competitive in the Baltic Sea region and want to lower prices, it would be as if you were a private limited company and could raise prices so high. This would only be an option if we could ban all other countries in the Baltic Sea region from conducting maritime safety training. In that case, the answer would be as competent. But I am also saying that if we were to provide these services, perhaps in the future, of drones, if any of the services were to be provided there, I think that this would be one of the easiest steps. I do not think that our employees are coming to the employer to explain how things should actually work. I think we can be innovative and look to the future, not a long or short plan, but just looking to the future, so that all this, sorry for the expression, know-how will come to Estonia. Estonia was a sea state, Estonia is a sea state, Estonia remains a sea state. From here all the people who want to go to different languages get the best knowledge and skills to drive safely to the sea. And we're bringing this money to Estonia. I would therefore like to support both the draft and the 18th amendment. I don't know how they're going to read here now, but I'll give you the signal that I'm asking you to vote on this proposal. Thank you very much for your support.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U142	All the amendments will be examined one by one. Arto Aas, please! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U143	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, As I said before, this process has gone in the right direction in itself. The draft is a positive and long step forward. However, the opposition has a moral duty to ask certain questions, and that is what we have done in the Commission. Nothing personal, just for the sake of greater clarity and debate. I'll bring out a few places that have raised questions for us. I'll start with the simple one: the process itself. This complex law in a complex area has been done for several years and, of course, it is understandable that it arrived here in a relatively final phase before the elections, which creates its own tensions. And, unfortunately, for the second reading, nearly one hundred new amendments were brought to our table, plus that we are changing the income tax regime, which has a significant impact on the analysis of the effects of the draft. The explanatory memorandum takes account of the fact that the income tax base is 750 euros, now we changed it quickly in the Riigikogu and this could cause problems in the future. I am not as optimistic or as confident as Sven Sester, who believes that we will definitely get this authorisation for state aid. Firstly, we are taking a relatively unprecedented step towards adopting the law before the State aid permit comes. I recall that, in the case of renewable energy charges, we waited many years for this authorisation and argued with the European Commission about how and whether State aid could be granted at all. Now we are doing something unprecedented, having quite urgently changed the content of the draft. There may be problems and this means legal certainty and legal clarity will suffer. Shipowners may have legitimate expectations that may not be fulfilled. But that's it. I am now going to dwell on the fundamental question that the Commission was discussing: whether zero-rate income tax for seafarers and other crew members is a good and correct solution. It makes perfect sense, in itself, that the sector wants it, who doesn't want it? Surely everyone in this hall would like zero tax, as would anyone competing in the international market in Estonia: the financial sector, the technology sector, pilots, IT specialists. Of course they would like that, and of course it would help to attract jobs to Estonia. Surely all these other people could also say that this will lead to additional services and new jobs. The arguments would certainly be similar, and that is why granting such derogations for specific sectors is well debated, both technically, legally and in terms of fairness. The Reform Party has never loved such exceptions. And we have built up one of the most competitive tax systems in the world. There have been many studies and evaluations to this effect. So our skepticism and the questions about the exception are very logical, justified. I would like to remind people who are not members of the Committee on Economic Affairs that, under the new regime, seafarers do not pay income tax, do not pay health insurance and pay social tax, this pension insurance only amounts to EUR 150 per month. It doesn't matter how much they make. The tax base is EUR 750. The average wage in the sector is 3000 euros, the captains reportedly around 6000 euros. One person in the paper wrote that he even knows Estonian captains, whose salary is 15,000 euros and 18,000 euros per month. They are probably not very many, but in any case they are people with relatively high wages in the Estonian context and their tax burden on both income tax and social tax will be very low. Which in global competition is probably the norm. I understand that in the maritime sector, paying labour taxes is like an anomaly or taboo, but from a national perspective or at individual level, it is extremely strange. And these people are likely to live in Estonia for at least three months or six months and they use all public services. They want their home to be protected by the police so that the roads are smooth so that the street lighting burns so their children can go to school. Probably joint and several funds are paid for their parents' health insurance, their children's treatment, not to mention pension contributions, etc. Such questions arise. How do we lift out of the economy one sector that is exempt from taxes, but the state's obligations are not going anywhere? The country doesn't get any thinner than that. Yes, of course, the other half is saying that we are not currently receiving taxes from this sector. It's true. I don't get much, I think we'll get a few million. Let's see if this is going to increase or decrease. Of course, it is not true that in most countries this income tax is zero. No, it's not! We've been sent tables to that effect. It is still quite zero in very few countries. There are some lower fees, there are deductions, there are minimum fees, etc. And there are countries where they are paid in full, as well as ships flying their flag. So the image that was created for us here, that the only way to survive is to set the tax rate at zero, is not quite right. Yeah, maybe this change would really be kind of distinguished and attractive, but believe me, there are countries that behave differently. I didn't ask by chance about the registration fees. I made sure it was part of the whole package. The explanatory memorandum provides an example of a ship that would have a registration fee of EUR 25000 per year in Estonia, EUR 9200 per year in Madeira. There must be nuances and nuances in the game that ship owners are counting on, and that's the way you can fly one flag, you have employees in another legal body, you pay taxes for another place, and that's the kind of picking. So that's what we were actually arguing about. We understand that global competition is intense. Such flags of convenience are actually fought. These are countries where we do not want to live ourselves, for example, in Liberia. But the big shipping companies have registered there, the taxes are small, we have to compete. But from the level of the individual, as we approach the state, this tax exemption is very unprecedented. Tallink definitely wants that exception. It has passenger ships on distant seas and cargo ships within the European Union, but surely others will come to ask for this exception, and then the same sense of justice, ethics and logic issues will be right on the table. I'm just predicting it right now. These questions will probably be on this table in six months, if not earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U144	Peter Ernits, please! Colleagues confirm what I noticed you went to the remote once, but now you have a completely different thing. You are now taking the floor on behalf of the group, before you took the floor on your own behalf. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U145	Yes! Second reading allows it, older colleagues know better. I wouldn't have spoken, but after what Mr Aasa said, I thought we should come to the remote again. We are talking about the authorisation of state aid and the distinctions that I spoke about in my speech and which my good colleague Sven Sester, as Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, also explained. When Admiral Kõuts was a member of the Riigikogu, and when two cargo ships were still under the Estonian flag, it was not customary to make exceptions and as a result Sven Sester's initiative and draft was sent to the trash bin. As I said, by now all cargo ships have gone out of the Estonian flag and are going quietly also passenger ships. I said it again! If, now, Mr Aas has come up with this saying that there is no need to make exceptions and I wonder if there will be a State aid permit, etc., this is actually a vivid example of the same dogmatic approach. Sven Sester, as the representative of the Fatherland, has now changed his mind, it has become clear that exceptions can be requested if the interests of Estonia are at stake. At the moment, this interest is ships flying the flag of Estonia. But, as I see it, some of the good colleagues in the Reform Party are holding the dogmatic view that there are no exceptions, that we are crouching before Brussels, and that there is no need to ask for State aid, that we should not ask, I wonder whether they do and how many years it will take. But in my opinion and in the opinion of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, we are actually here to stand up for Estonia's interests and do so in the interests of maintaining and building Estonia's status as a maritime state. And that's not what we're talking about right now, but there's also a need for regional tax distinctions. If we have to ask Brussels for permission for this, then we have to do so. I am very pleased that the Fatherland has changed its mind that, indeed, we want blue black and white, we want it to fly on our merchant ships, so it must be done as it is done elsewhere, and, if necessary, ask for this tax distinction, so-called State aid permit, be it in advance, in this case as a prior notification or not as a prior notification. That's how you do it. And I would like the Estonian flag to fly on more merchant ships. There aren't any right now. And it would also wave why not, on Greek ships and on many other ships, who could come to our budget thanks to the new registration system and the tonnage tax. As Mr Sester mentioned, in 2060 it could generate nearly 2 billion tax revenues. Maybe it's really utopian at this point, but these few captains, I know a lot of mysterious salaries, too, and we're crying here, pouring crocodile tears, that we make their differences. Estonia's interests are at stake: whether Estonia is a maritime state or not. It's as simple as that. So please support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U146	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U147	Thank you. As my name has been mentioned, I would like to point out that I really think that, as part of the European Union, we should follow the rules of the Union. These are probably in the interests of the Estonian state, Estonian entrepreneurs and Estonian people. I understand that the EKRE does not want Estonia to belong to the European Union. That, too, is an understandable position, but I'm not a dogmatist. I just like to play by the rules that have been agreed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U148	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U149	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with everything Arto said here, but a little bit more. First of all, I am deeply disgusted by what has been done around this law and what has been expressed here today in the remote. Such a process and such empty talk should not be allowed by a single Parliament. After all, Peter's two words gave nothing but a slogan by EKRE that it is about Estonia's interests. After all, all discussions can be stopped if you refer to Estonia's interest. I say that this is Estonia's interest, and everything is done. I see from the window every morning that Estonia is a sea state, that ships come here. I know the shipmen, too, and I can see that they have a job. But if you think of Estonia's interest, that interest could be to use its natural advantages. Port stations are there, sailors are there. The fact that ships have gone under the flag of another country is unfortunate, but it happens in the world. The flags of convenience are something we have always despised. We do not want to have such risks in the financial sector or in business in general, and we are out of trouble. And we will not race Panama and Cyprus either, because shipping and flags are also associated with the risks I have, unfortunately, felt on the skin of my family. But nationally, yes, the Estonian flag on the ship is not necessarily a dream that we have to pay no matter how much to fulfill. When Sven Sester was released from Estonian finances, I hoped that he would not be able to access the money again. But you see, he got away. The Committee on Economic Affairs will shape our tax system completely independently of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, completely independent of the Ministry of Finance. They're holding their heads there, waiting for what's happening again. But he's got his fingernails in the back and he's walking around. He's got enough complacency and something else that I don't think we can talk about in public. In this whole process, it has been very disgusting that there is unscrupulous talk about the sector, the coordination of the sector. There are no more filters! It is not the Minister that is a partner to Parliament, but the Maritime Administration. One office now represents the entire government. The bill will be presented by the government, but then the Maritime Administration will appear, with other thoughts, and with the help of Sven Sester, all of them can be written into the law. Well, that's ridiculous! There are a hundred amendments to the draft law that has been made for several years, which turn everything upside down and also concern finances, which is certainly not the area of the Committee on Economic Affairs. Things have been done in the process, which I think are fatal mistakes. First of all, this intertwination with the interests of the group and, in addition, the corrupt taste of what's in it. As far as taxes are concerned, there are totally random numbers flying about how ships are going to come to our ports because of this law and how it does not pay anything, only brings in money. Some say billions are coming, and it's only $1 million in budget. In fact, however, if these sailors really become our tax residences, then their income tax, which is written as zero in the draft, will have to be paid by the state to the municipalities, and so will be an indeterminate additional burden on the state budget. We don't know the amount of income, it's all a hypothesis. The fact that we can overplay Cyprus is a pure hypothesis. But the claim that all normal or all countries have introduced zero income tax is simply wrong. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U150	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U151	When we made a request to the Ministry of Finance, we received the answer that there are one such countries and that is Cyprus. And the question is not whether or not one or the other party has ruled out exceptions in history. When we ask for an exception, we are talking about what this exception is, what are the analogues, what are the chances that it will work. So let's not stigmatize it, either as an exception or as an exception. This is a different sector indeed. In this connection, we can discuss things and the government came up with some sort of solution, but now the lobby simply rewrites this bill and the government no longer has any position. That's not how laws are made! And yet Peter Ernits comes to the remote twice in a row and gives a speech about nothing. He knows exactly how things are all over the world! That's no way to make laws, Peter Ernitsa's wisdom. What I want to say in particular, and not only as the Minister for Exhibition, is that this is not only about taxes and budgets, but also about state aid. After all, Estonia's interest was to keep Estonian Air upright. It was then said the same nonsense that the State aid permit would come in any case. We discussed this repeatedly in the government, and I constantly warned the government that State aid authorisation was essential, but unfortunately it is unlikely. I told you many times, there's nothing I can do first. Of course, I didn't have a plan of my own to save Estonian Air, it wasn't even my job, but I made my own criticism of that business plan. At the moment, there is an analogy about state aid: without the authorisation of state aid, you adopt the law, you impose taxes. So what happens now? You're going to apply, but you're told 'no' is this really a very elegant solution? I understand there's some kind of provision written into the law here, but basically, you should sort it out first, whether this whole plan is realistic at all, or whether we're just gonna wag here before the election and buy interest groups one by one. This is not the only law that makes some crazy concession before the elections, in which the government has not actually submitted an analysis, has not been spoken to experts, but with interested people. So I'm really sorry! I can't vote in favour of this bill if it's included in the income tax. Well, let's see what the long-term result is. In fact, at the outset we could say that, in case these ships do not come, we are going to write in the law that then we will restore the income tax on seafarers and the training and treatment of these children will not be covered by taxes on other men and women, but by their own taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U152	Peter Ernits, the line from the scene.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U153	Thank you. My name here was named three or four times. I'm not saying that Jürgen is disgusting, but I've been talking to a lot of so-called sector people and also younger future captains. And by the way, I also spoke to Jaanus Rahumägi, who is known to be Jürgen's party companion, and I was already waiting for dogmatic Jürgen to come out in addition to Arto Asa. So Jürgen's story isn't disgusting. And if you stigmatize that me and the EKRE are in some kind of bullshit, talk to your partymates first and not just sector people. In this period of dogmatism, all cargo ships have actually gone from under the Estonian flag. And if the same dogmatics threatens to continue, well, I don't want to.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U154	Jürgen Ligi, same right, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U155	Yeah, my name was named. I would point out that the previous speaker did not listen to what I was saying. I specifically deplored the worship and slogans of all non-filtered interest groups. But he kept doing it. Secondly, he thought that if any of the interest groups were part of my party, I was part of the interest group. No, I'm not part of this category. I belong to the interest group 'Estonian Republic' and represent it. I would advise the EKRE to represent this as well and, in fact, to resolve the question of whether foreign workers are welcome. This zero-rate income tax will be used, registered here, and perhaps our services will be used here and our families will be brought here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U156	Erki Savisaar. Please, eight minutes in total!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U157	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Estonia is already historically a maritime state when it is located along the Baltic Sea. During the Vikings, Estonian ships dominated the Baltic Sea, four Estonian cities belonged to the Hanseatic Union in the Middle Ages, and before World War II, the total fleet capacity of the Republic of Estonia was the seventh largest population in the world. The Estonian sea coast is 3800 kilometres long with the islands. We have over 2,000 islands and more than 10,000 active sailors out of 1.3 million people in Estonia. Unfortunately, we are in a situation where we are in the leading position in the Baltic Sea for passenger ships, but there are no major cargo ships flying the flag of Estonia. The last cargo ship left the Estonian flag in 2014. In the early 1990s, almost a hundred cargo ships sailed under the flag of Estonia, and today Estonia has more than 10,000 very well-educated and experienced sailors. The shipping sector has great potential to be one of the drivers of growth in the Estonian economy, in terms of the existence of companies in the sector, the quality of education of seafarers, the business environment, public administration and the level of ICT sector. According to a survey covering all European shipping, one job on the ship generates an additional 3.8 jobs on the shore. At the beginning of the 2000s, the sector raised the problem that Estonia is facing unfavourable conditions for the development of the shipping sector and that it is difficult to maintain even existing levels. At national level, flag issues have so far not been discussed and resolved in legislative terms. In 2013, the Maritime Administration presented a proposal to strengthen the competitiveness of Estonian shipping. According to the proposal, in the first stage of the development of shipping, the focus should be on bringing ships under the Estonian flag, which creates the reputation of the sea state for Estonia, and on using the reputation created in the second stage to attract foreign shipping companies to Estonia. The risks arising from the increase in the number of ships were analysed and the advantages of the Estonian flag were highlighted. In 2014, an inter-ministerial working group to strengthen the competitiveness of the Estonian shipping sector was convened under the direction of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, on the basis of a proposal submitted by the Maritime Administration. The working group focused on three main problems that hinder the development of Estonian shipping. These were the tax environment, the use of foreign labour on Estonian ships and the need to modernise Estonian ship registers. At the time, the working group was unable to reach a consensus. Basically, there was a difference of opinion on the issue of tax exemptions for labour. So we are here today, above all, because of the changed attitude of the current government's work. For years, working groups were formed and like a cat around a hot porridge, but the goal could not be achieved because for one party, all kinds of tax exemptions were from the devil. This is a long-awaited draft in the maritime community. I am pleased that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Kadri Simson, also carried it actively in the government and has fought a great deal for the good of this bill. I also thank the officials of the Ministry of Finance, the Maritime Administration and the specialists of the Maritime Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, who have done a great job in drafting the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U158	Jaanus Marrand.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U159	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, There is no doubt that this is a bill that has a very long history. Probably two or three Riigikogu members have discussed how to improve our maritime competitiveness. A good colleague, Erki Savisaar, has just read the timeline here. This may cool down the discussion that we have had here on the speaker's desk, and I find it regrettable that it has happened. In the Committee on Economic Affairs, we did not really discuss these matters that way. The President of the Reform Party Group, speaking very harshly, gave the impression that we were only representatives of the sector in the Committee on Economic Affairs, but that was not the case. We discussed the matter with both the Minister and the Maritime Administration, which is not a sector representative. They are simply experts in the field, specialists in the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. And their views can therefore be trusted. When we had listened to all the parties involved and also discussed with specialists in the field, we reached a fairly clear conclusion in the Commission, and colleagues from the Reform Party also took part in this debate, so that the goal of bringing cargo ships under the Estonian flag will not be fulfilled if the draft does not change. And if we do have that goal, then we must take steps to reach that goal. And from there, the debate went on. Our discussion has been made extremely unpleasant by an elegant, voluntaristic approach to policy making at all. A good colleague of the EKRE, who was here twice, represented just this voluntaristic approach. We had a good sailor, Thunder, who did this thing. The Thunder is certainly a good man and a good sailor, and there were discussions at the Economic Commission, and the captains I knew went to our place in the sauna, and then they said that and the other. I'm sorry, one man in the sauna or a woman in the sauna said that this is not how politics is done in Estonia! Our discussion has never been such a voluntarist. Indeed, we have also had considerations behind us, and this position has actually been represented by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications in the form of its officials and experts for quite a long time, since 2012. There was talk here about Minister Michal and Minister of Finance Sester, so the bill actually has some very clearly behind it. But one thing I want to give the President of the Reform Party Group a little plus for taking his emotional and sudden position. Indeed, the analysis could have been more. If we were to take the 8500 10,000 sailors we have together and subtract Tallink's sailors who would not be affected by this law, but who are probably in their pockets, it would have been possible, in fact, in this long time, to carry out a more precise analysis of how much this loss of tax revenue could be. A little extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U160	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U161	We've been waiting for this analysis quite a few times. We took time off in the Commission and finally this analysis came. According to these estimates, it cannot be put to the heart that it is a hundred percent truth, but it is estimated that it is 1 to 2 million euros that Estonian taxpayers could lose if they base their existing tax receipts on the wages of these seafarers. On the other hand, our IT solutions, our innovative level, could be exploited. I know that the Maritime Administration is working very actively on this right now, namely these IT solutions. Like I said, you can't approach yourself voluntaristically or say that a man here did this thing. It's a national matter, it's a government matter, it's a ministry matter, and it's a long-term process. In fact, this is only the first stage, followed by the second and possibly third stage legislative changes. So, actually, we don't know the end date and the outcome of the whole process today. I wonder how much money could be paid into the state budget, both for these tons of registers and for shore services. Two billion is obviously an overwork. If we look at large sea states, I doubt Estonia's chances of being like Malta or Cyprus, but in any case we have opportunities. So if this isn't two billion, but in any case it's bigger than the couple of million you're missing, we're going to be positive for a couple hundred or a hundred million. Inevitably, we are dealing with a small risk, and we could take these risks as the crown of the long work that has been done today for six or seven years. I don't have very much doubt that it could fail a hundred percent. That is why, in any case, the Socialist Group supports this draft and I call on my colleagues not to go along with this voluntarian, frankly, bullshit. Politics is not made in the style of 'one man in the sauna spoke' and that was once a good man. We are doing the business of the Estonian state here, considering the pros and cons for the Estonian state. Similarly, I think that, when it comes to applying for a State aid permit, I also trust ministerial officials who believe that this process can be completed in this way. It's not that extraordinary. In other countries, for example Lithuania, this process has been completed. We believe in Estonia's maritime and emotionally ending with such a positive note, we hope that the blue black and white flag will fly significantly more than before over the various ships of the Baltic Sea and the world sea. Thank you for your attention. We support this bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U162	There are no more requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. 26 proposals have been made to amend the draft law, and we will examine them together. The first amendment, made by the Committee on Economic Affairs, has been a decision: to take full account. The second amendment is the decision made by the members of the Riigikogu, Krista Aru, Andres Herkel and Külliki Kübarsper, the leading commission: disregard. The proposal is not subject to voting in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act. The third amendment from the same colleagues, including the decision of the commission, is the same: not to be taken into account. The proposal shall not be subject to the vote. The following amendments, which have been tabled by the Economic Commission and which have been fully taken into account: the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth. Amendment 10... Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U163	I would like to ask for the tenth amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U164	The tenth amendment? You got it. Ladies and gentlemen, just in case, I would remind you that we are currently dealing with bill 722 at second reading, and we are currently reviewing the amendments. I shall vote on Amendment 10 taken into account in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Please take a stand and vote. 50 delegates voted in favour, against 7. The tenth amendment was supported. Amendment 11 from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, decision of the commission: consider the substance. Amendment 12 from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, decision of the commission: consider the substance. Amendment 13 from the Committee on Economic Affairs, decision of the commission: take full account, as well as Amendment 14. The 15th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the lead committee decided: disregard. The proposal is not subject to voting in accordance with the relevant section of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act. Amendment 16 is also from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the decision of the commission: disregard. That, too, is not to be voted on. Amendment 17 from the Economic Commission, decision of the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 18 from Tarmo Kruusimäe, member of the Riigikogu, decision of the commission: disregard. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U165	I ask you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U166	Let us vote on Amendment 18! Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 18 tabled by the member of the Riigikogu Tarmo Kruusimäe, decision of the commission: disregard. If you use the green button, yes means no, or you confirm the decision of the commission. Please take a stand and vote. We shall vote on the amendment. I repeat once again: the 18th amendment, made by Tarmo Kruusimäe, is the decision of the commission to disregard it. Now please vote! The proposal was in favour of four, with 44 delegates voting against. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 19, decision of the leading committee by the members of the Riigikogu Krista Aru, Andres Herkel and Külliki Kübarsse: disregard. The proposal is not subject to voting in accordance with the relevant section of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act. Amendment 20 from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, proposed by the commission: disregard. The proposal shall not be subject to the vote. Amendment 21 is also from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, decision of the commission: disregard. The proposal shall not be subject to the vote. Amendment 22 from the Economic Commission, decision of the commission: take full account. The 24th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, the decision of the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 25 is also from the Economic Commission, the decision of the lead committee: take full account. The same goes for Amendment 26 tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs: the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The proposed amendments to draft 722 have thus been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 722. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U167	The next item is the second reading of the draft Water Act 643 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I call Andres Metsoja, member of the Environment Committee, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U168	Yeah. I'll ask for more time, if that's possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U169	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Amendments have also been tabled to this draft, even 118 have been drafted. It is true that most of them are technical in nature or more precise in wording, but there are also substantive proposals, and we must talk about them. Draft Water Act 643 was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 28 May m. a. The first reading was closed on 12 June and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 16 a.m. on 1 August. The members of the Riigikogu, political groups and other committees did not propose amendments to the draft, but the Committee on the Environment decided to make 118 amendments. These amendments were largely due to negotiations with different parties or to improvements and improvements by the Ministry, the author of the draft. Between the first reading and the second reading of the draft proposal, the draft was dealt with even five times at the Commission's meeting. Representatives of Tallinn City Government, Tallinn Environmental Board, Estonian Association of Cities and Municipalities, Harku Municipality and Estonian Association of Water Enterprises, Estonian Nature Foundation, Estonian Agricultural Chamber and Järvamaa Farmers' Association have been present at the meeting of the committee, who have submitted their views on the draft. Representatives of the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Ministry of the Environment have also attended the meeting and have provided further explanations on the draft. At its meeting on 17 December, the Committee on the Environment decided to send the draft to the second reading of the large hall today. If the draft is sent to third reading, it could take place on 30 January 2019. I have reviewed the minutes of all five sittings. To be honest, it is very difficult to report this whole debate during the five sessions, as a number of issues were repeatedly found in the debate, in the meantime taking into account the analysis of the target groups carried out in the ministry or the discussions held. But I decided to give you an overview, within the framework of the summary memo, of precisely the substance of what this draft is going to change specifically. The substantive amendments are set out in 15. I will begin with proposal 54 concerning the accession to the ballast water convention and the resulting requirements. The amendment complements the draft with the provisions of the International Convention on the Control of Ships' Ballast Waters and their Sludges. This is due to the adoption of the Act of Accession on 14 February m. a and the provisions to be included in the draft lay down the conditions for the discharge of ballast water to be pumped out of ships. Ballast water is, in a simple way, ballasted water containing suspended material and may be used to control stability of the ship and the environment may be controlled by ballast water handled on ships which does not contain toxicogenic bacteria that pose a risk to human health. The effects of the introduction of conditions for the discharge of ballast water into the environment have been assessed during the drafting of the Act on the Accession of vessels to the International Convention for the Control and Management of Ballast Waters and their sediments in 2004. These changes have also been made on the basis of a proposal from the Ministry of the Environment. The next amendment is No 55 and concerns forest management in the sanitary reserve. The amendment replaces the words "forest management' in subsection 163 (new numbering 151) (2) (3) with the words "forest maintenance'. The point is, in fact, that it would not be possible to make clear cutting in the sanitary protection area. This limits management in such a way that it is not reasonable to permit clear cutting in a sanitary protected area, but maintenance as such is permitted. The amendment has also been drafted on the basis of a proposal from the Ministry of the Environment. Amendment 59 concerns the granting of more manure nitrogen to certain crops. This is a topic that has actually been topical among farmers for quite a long time. The amendment complements § 173 (new numbering 161) with additional provisions governing nitrogen and phosphorus limits for fertilisers. As a general rule, manure nitrogen is subject to a fertilisation limit of up to 170 kilograms of arable land per hectare per year. In order to ensure that the nitrogen requirements of crops with a higher fertiliser consumption are not necessarily covered by mineral fertilisers, differences have been established, the use of which must comply with the prescribed criteria. The distinction between manure nitrogen and maize and grass and grass-rich grassland applies. However, at the same time, this point deals with autumn and early spring leaching when manure is applied, and it has been pointed out that in the autumn period, 15 August is the date to be observed. The use of phosphorus is also regulated, as the phosphorus content of Estonian soils varies considerably from region to region. In order to facilitate the use of manure for the intended purpose in the vicinity of the site of production, a higher amount of phosphorus is permitted in certain cases than in the case of phosphorus-depleted soils. The amendment was proposed by the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Commerce. Amendment 60 provides for an increase in the threshold for the spreading plan for liquid manure. The amendment increases the number of livestock units (threshold quantity) for which the application of the corresponding amount of manure requires coordination with the Environmental Board on the plan for the application of liquid manure. The current Water Act requires from 300 livestock units, the amendment requires that a plan for spreading liquid manure be drawn up for 400 livestock units. The obligation to plan the application of liquid manure is an important measure to target the use of liquid manure as a significant environmental impact factor. The storage plan and the threshold capacity set are part of the lever to plan the application of liquid manure. As this needs to be coordinated at the Environmental Board, the measure provides an opportunity to avoid the use of manure in unsuitable places. At the same time, there is a need to reduce the administrative burden on businesses and the Environmental Board, so that the spreading plans for liquid manure would, as a general rule, remain the property of the environmental complex permit. By looking at these two interests in a balanced way as a whole, and bearing in mind the principle of simplicity, the number of livestock units to which the corresponding amount of manure is to be spread will be increased to 400, as I have already mentioned. The amendment has also been drafted on the proposal of the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Commerce. Next, the exemption from the obligation to keep a Sewage Sludge Diary. The amendment complements § 186 (new numbering 173) with a new paragraph 2 which exempts a person from the obligation to keep a diary or a farm book when a person uses sewage sludge for his own use. There was also a debate in the Commission on what it still means that sewage sludge is used for its own use. It seemed incomprehensible to the members of the Commission, but it was explained that it would still be done in some cases, even for the purpose of establishing grass or for the purpose of greening. The amendment aims to reduce the administrative burden on individuals. Next, we are talking about granting the right to control the speed of watercraft to the Environmental Inspectorate. Paragraph 197 of the draft law (new numbering 183) adds a paragraph which gives the Minister responsible for the sector the right to impose on watercraft in public and public inland waters, with the exception of navigable waters, requirements for the storage and use of watercraft, including the maximum permitted speed. The amendment places the obligation to impose such requirements on the Minister responsible for the sector. Due to the specificity of the subject matter, it should be considered appropriate for the Minister to establish specific relevant regulations on the basis of the additional paragraph contained in the proposal and paragraph 7. The amendment was drafted on the basis of a proposal from the Ministry of the Environment. Amendment 73 to reduce the threshold for the authorisation of water for the eradication of water bodies or wetlands. This concerns § 200 (new numbering 187) point 16. A water permit shall be required if more than 1 hectare is established or if an inland waterway or wet area with an area exceeding 0,1 hectare is disposed of, except for water from mineral extraction. The amendment has been introduced to ensure that the draft is in line with the idea of the Water Framework Directive and that small wetland areas with a wet area of less than 10 hectares are better protected. The amendment was proposed by the Estonian Foundation for Nature. The next issue is the granting of a water permit for expansion if there is an overriding public interest. The amendment complements the new paragraphs 1 and 2 of § 206 (new numbering 192) with the following wording: 'The Environmental Board refuses to grant a water permit in the cases provided for in clause 52 (1) (1) (1) and (3) (10) of the General Part of the Environmental Code Act or if the applicant for an environmental permit does not have the consent of the owner of the site to use the immovable property owned by the latter or if the consent referred to in paragraph.. of this Act does not exist. ' This topic was also discussed in the Commission, in this way, how it is at one point that the interest of a private owner may be overcome in the context of the public interest. An example was provided that nine out of ten landowners could be willing to expand, one against. This provision shall be used where the expansion of a water body is necessary and there is an overriding public interest. It was also a matter of changing the deadline for the accreditation of water samplers. The amendment replaces the word 'five' in subsection 258 (new numbering 243) by'seven' in paragraph 4. In fact, all those who take water samples will have to carry out an accreditation process and will now be moved from five to seven years. These are persons who attend these assessments. The amendment reduces the workload of both the Ministry of the Environment and the Health Board, as well as reduces the administrative burden on samplers. A specific issue was also the granting of a maritime research permit to a foreign research institution. The definition of marine research was added here, and only foreign researchers wishing to come to the Estonian maritime area to carry out their studies must apply for maritime research permits. This is in accordance with the laws in force and is also stated in the current Economic Zone Act. The amendment removed the obligation to apply for a survey permit for Estonian marine researchers. In particular, because research covers a wide range of fields that have not been regulated by legislation, we consider it unreasonable for Estonian researchers to request permission to carry out marine research. The next issue concerns the granting of the right to supervision of the use of watercraft to the Environmental Inspectorate. The amendment amends paragraph 265 (new numbering 250) (2). The monitoring of the use of watercraft is not only due to the need to comply with environmental requirements, but also to the need to guarantee the rights of landowners and other water bodies and water users, as well as to the need to protect water constructions and utility networks, and is necessary to exercise control over the requirements imposed to prevent the spread of other harmful influences. The amendment was drafted on the basis of a proposal from the Ministry of the Environment. The Commission addressed the issue of reservoirs. In particular, the members of the Commission asked what would happen in reservoirs, such as the Paunküla reservoir or certain section of the Pirita River, which would be used as a water grip. A situation is created in which watercraft with an internal combustion engine does not have the right to navigate on water bodies that play a role in water griping. Amendment 100, non-compliance with the ballast water convention. The amendment complements the new § 268 of the draft. Non-compliance with the requirements for the discharge of ballast water may result in significant environmental degradation, i.e. pollution, which cannot be rectified quickly and easily. Therefore, such acts can cause irreversible damage to the environment. The application of administrative sanctions is not practical in a situation where the result has been and has come to an end and, in most cases, it is impossible or very difficult and costly to remedy the consequences. The amendment was drafted on the basis of a proposal from the Ministry of the Environment. As a topic, there was also a transitional period for the allocation of more manure nitrogen to some crops. I've already talked about it indirectly, but I'll tell you again. The amendment also complements the new paragraph 2 of § 292 (new numbering 278) by laying down in the implementing provisions of the Act that, until 31 December 2020, outside nitrate-sensitive areas, maize, grass grass grass and grass-rich grassland with legumes up to 25% may be granted nitrogen amounts established under the Water Act with manure nitrogen in the amount required to produce up to 6 tonnes per hectare of crop. This proposal has also been finalised on the proposal of the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Commerce. The addition of the General Part of the Environmental Code Act in relation to the liability of the management body of a legal person was also addressed. The decision of the Supreme Court in a misdemeanour case was also pointed out in the committee, where it was actually found that a person, or a member of the board of directors of a certain organisation, could not be punished because the law did not contain a point to that effect. This particular move will still give the members of the board the opportunity to be punished.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U170	Dear waitress, it is possible to have more time by agreement. As manager, I realized it was necessary, even though you didn't ask. So hopefully in a few minutes, you'll be finished with the subject. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U171	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U172	That is, in principle, the last point, Amendment 115, amendment of the Land Tax Act as regards the amendment of the principles of exemption in the Water Protection Zone and the Sanitary Protection Area. The addition to subsection 4 (1) of the Land Tax Act, which was designed by the original draft, would leave the exemption for land in the sanitary area of the groundwater cover, i.e. in private use in the land surrounding the well. However, this exemption from land tax has been applied in individual cases. The landowner receives a benefit from the well and by building the facility he has made an informed choice that he will have to withstand the constraints associated with it. In addition, the landowner is able to make a profit from the sale of water to the well. In such a situation, the exemption of 50% is not justified by the fact that the purpose of the exemption is to compensate for the loss of benefit or income in a situation where, due to external factors beyond the control of the landowner, it is prohibited to engage in an economic activity on its land and otherwise significantly restricted. The second part of the proposal concerns an amendment to the exemption for water protection zones. The draft Water Act does not completely prohibit economic activities in the shore or beach water protection zone. Instead of a total ban on the current economic activity, the draft provides for restrictions aimed in particular at preventing contamination of water and erosion on shore. According to current practice, land tax exemptions are, for example, in the land of the destination protection zone of the nature reserve, where economic activity and, to a large extent, other human activities are completely prohibited. It is therefore more logical to apply a 50% tax credit in a water protection zone. Such a proposal has been made. Today, however, I have made clear what the position of the Ministry of Finance is precisely on this issue, which I also raised in the Commission, that if additional land tax incentives are granted, i.e. such a legal possibility, how the loss of income will still be compensated for in the local government's budget. I received the answer that if the draft passes through second reading and goes to third reading, this issue will be taken to the government office for discussion. Unfortunately, there is no concrete model for the government today. With this, I have gone through this very detailed subject of amendments. I would also like to mention that the deadlines for taking effect are also different. The amendments to § 41 (1) (1), 42 (7) and 53 (3) of the General Part of the Environmental Code Act will enter into force on 1 July 2019 in order to ensure the procedure of environmental permits in the information system of environmental decisions that have passed IT development. The amendment to the Land Tax Act should enter into force on 1 January 2021, should an addition to the information system be completed. The crop-specific nutrient accounting requirement shall apply from 2021. I'm sorry! I tried to make the report as clear as possible. I'm ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U173	Please! Krista Aru opens the round of questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U174	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Really, there are many details, many differences, but my question is more general. 118 amendments to the draft law were drawn up. What is the reason that so many of them came? Was the draft law incomplete when the Commission arrived? Were some things completely disregarded? All right, among these 118 are linguistic clarifications and redeployments, but there are also very fundamental proposals. Where was the mistake made? Was this bill presented in too incomplete form?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U175	Thank you. I really thank the Commission's good officials, who had a lot of work to do to make this draft better. There were many linguistic and actually technical improvements to be made here, as I read out, to be renumbered and renumbered. But, as you have heard from my presentation, in fact, very many times these topics were discussed with various parties and target groups. It could be said that when the draft came to Parliament, its quality would probably have been better. The next law, which is pending in the Committee on the Environment, is the Waste Act, and I think there are already more than 200 amendments. It is very difficult to finally understand them and understand the whole and purposeful direction of the law. But this time, we've been chewing it all out. Indeed, questions of a formal nature were considerably more than substantive.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U176	Krista Aru, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U177	Mr President! Honourable waitress! I will now come to the final part of your report. You yourself also mentioned that there are very different dates of entry into force here. Did the Commission also consider how to inform those who will have to comply with this law, when some part will come into force and what will have to be monitored? It's hard to understand even here. How can these units and people who have to comply with the Water Law with great accuracy be informed in the best possible way? Did the Commission even raise such a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U178	Thank you. There were certainly five Commission meetings in the Commission, five times we discussed the issue of water law in the Commission in one way or another. But over and over again we received the answer that we are building an e-state and that very many points relate to data environments that are simultaneously being launched or developed. For example, the environmental permit procedure is behind IT developments in the environmental decision-making information system, and what concerns all land tax issues is again behind the development of the information system. From these aspects, it can be clearly stated that the main difficulty remains for the Ministry of Industry, which must keep the parties constantly informed and, if necessary, undertake further training in its sub-organisations so that compliance with the law can still be fully implemented. Not knowing the law doesn't relieve you of responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U179	Dear waitress, thank you very much for your presentation. No further questions. I am opening negotiations where everyone can participate, because this is a second reading of the draft. There's no call. As has already been mentioned some times, 118 amendments have been tabled to this draft law, and we will review them at a rather swift pace. Everyone can also request or ask for a vote. Amendment Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 have all been tabled by the Committee on the Environment and the decision is fully taken into account. Amendment 11, Amendment 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 100, 101, 102, 103, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 111, 113, 114, 116, 117 and 118. All amendments have been tabled by the Committee on the Environment and have all been fully taken into account. The amendments to the draft 643 have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U180	The seventh item is the second reading of the draft Act amending § 11 of the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Priit Sibula, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U181	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft I introduce is simple, short and good. Good because he's cutting a little red tape. I would like to remind you that the point of its § 11 and of the amendments that are the second reading today is that we are losing the list of income tax incentives on a rolling and faster basis between the Committee of Experts and the organisations in the third sector that operate in the charitable and public interest. If, so far, this Committee of Experts has proposed to the Tax and Customs Board and amended this list twice a year, when we review these amendments today and approve the draft law at third reading next Wednesday, the Tax and Customs Board will continue to examine the applications on an ongoing basis. If a positive decision is taken, from the first day of the following month after the decision is taken, the company is already on the list of beneficiaries of the income tax benefit. For the record, there are 2478 associations on the list today. Last time, I mentioned that the Commission is still asking different organisations for their attitude, just in case, and we sent letters to ten representative organisations. The Commission received three responses, all of which were supportive. The Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry was answered by the Association of Free Associations, and the Estonian Council of Churches. The latter had drawn attention to an issue which they had pointed out earlier, namely how the Tax and Customs Board would resolve these specific issues, whether to consider it reasonable to put one or the other firm on that list or not. The Tax and Customs Board has also said in the past that it will continue to communicate with their umbrella organisations and associations when it makes its decisions if necessary. No amendments were received by the Commission by the deadline for submitting amendments. However, I do want to resolve one question that was left in the air last time, when our good colleague, Krista Aru, who, in my opinion, is the most industrious and dedicated member of this composition, asked me that the draft referred to that in the future private individuals could direct their excess income to one or another of the companies on the list of beneficiaries of the income tax credit, but for some reason the date of its entry into force was later, and that is a technical issue and that we did not actually make a legislative amendment to it. It is true that since this is a technical change, there is no need to amend any section to that effect, but there is a need to ensure this possibility technically. Since we are not able to do this on a rolling basis and so quickly, because a little bit of this will also require money of 2 000, it is not a large amount of money to ensure that this technical solution works properly, so that it will work normally, the deadline for implementing this technical change will be 1 January 2020. So hopefully this problem will also be solved. As I mentioned in my speech, if we approve this draft today, the third reading will take place next Wednesday. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U182	Priit Sibul, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, you have at least one question from the best member of the Riigikogu. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U183	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for this brief and concrete presentation. The amendment is absolutely reasonable and necessary. However, my point of clarification concerns what is promised that the Minister responsible for the field will establish a procedure by means of a regulation. When, then, can we expect this procedure to be put in place? The law should be in force as early as 1 July.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U184	I hope that as soon as we adopt this draft as a law here next week, the Minister will also introduce this regulation as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U185	Thank you. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. No amendments to the draft were tabled and the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 770. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U186	Let's go to the eighth item. Second reading of the Act amending the Insurance Activities Act and the Law of Obligations Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please speak to Dmitri Dmitriyev, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U187	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the draft law amending the Insurance Act and the Law of Obligations Act is to create a legal framework for the establishment of an insurance company operating in the form of a cooperative cooperative. Under the current Act on Insurance Activities, an insurance undertaking may only be established as a public limited liability company or a European company. At the same time, the Solvency II Directive does not restrict the form in which an insurer can actually be set up. The first reading took place in this Chamber on 19 December. No proposals from the Riigikogu were received by the deadline for submitting amendments, which was set for 9 January. Professor Rando Värnik of the Estonian University of Life Sciences, Society of Academic Cooperatives, Estonian Acordion Association, Estonian Hunters' Society, NGO Estonian Association of Children's Rich Families, Estonian Agricultural Chamber, Estonian Rendžulite, Dairy Association E-Piim, NPO of the Network of Social Enterprises and Tuutunduskondus Tueva of the Estonian University of Life Sciences. The Committee on Finance discussed the draft at the meeting of the Commission on 15 January and took the following decisions: It was decided, in consensus, to propose that the second reading be stopped, and when the second reading is closed, we will be proposing that the same draft be placed on the plenary agenda for the third reading by 30 January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U188	Thank you, Mr Dmitri Dmitriev, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. No questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. No amendments were tabled to the draft, and the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 769. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U189	Let's go to item nine on the agenda. Second reading of Bill 719 of the Law on the Amendment of the Evidence Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Mrs Urve Tiidus, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs of the Speaker's Committee on Legal Affairs, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U190	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The deadline for proposing amendments to the Proof Act and other related amendments to the draft Law was 19 December. No amendments were tabled in the Riigikogu, although the Ministry of Justice, which drafted the draft on 11 December, submitted four proposals to complete the draft. Before I go to the proposals that the Committee on Legal Affairs was dealing with on 14 December, I will say very briefly to remind you why this draft law is needed. A new form of notarial proof is being created, for example by means of a video bridge. This will make it easier to deal with e-residents and Estonian citizens living abroad. The right to confirm the validity of digital signatures shall also be granted to notaries. The Committee on Legal Affairs dealt with the draft proposals on 14 December and, on this basis, the Committee on Legal Affairs unanimously initiated four amendments. The purpose of the first proposal is to provide that the original digital copy is in circulation in the case of a proxy. If it cannot be used, a copy may be made in paper form. The second amendment was due to the need to create a speciality for certified credentials. Where, in the case of certified paper credentials, two originals are still drawn up, in the case of a far-provinced proxy, the paper copy shall replace the original. There is another nuance: unlike what was planned in the design of the draft, the pilot project can only be implemented in three foreign missions, as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not have sufficient resources. However, in order for the pilot project to provide sufficient information for future steps, a parallel project will also be implemented to allow for remote evidence at home. It's about the parties to the deal that the notary already knows. The third and fourth amendments aim to harmonise the practice of providing data to the actual beneficiary, i.e. to use the help of a notary operating in Estonia in the future. It is used by those who cannot provide information via digital channels. In particular, data are provided through Notar by foreigners who do not have an ID card and do not have access to the portal to provide such data, and who also need comprehensive explanations on the regulation of the beneficial owner when submitting the data. The lead committee took procedural decisions and they were all supported by consensus. The Committee on Legal Affairs decided to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 23 January, i.e. today. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of the draft, and when the second reading of the draft is completed, we will have a proposal to refer the draft to the third reading by 30 January and then a final vote. A majority of the votes in favour is sufficient for the draft to be adopted as a law. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U191	Thank you, Honourable Urve Tiidus. No questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has tabled four amendments to the draft. We are going to review them: the first, the second, the third and the fourth. All of these are fully accounted for. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 719. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U192	Let's go to item ten on the agenda. Second reading of Bill 737 of the Law on the amendment of the Code of Enforcement Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws (pressurisation of the debtors of the livelihood). Please speak to Mrs Urve Tiidus, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U193	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Code of Enforcement Procedure and related amendments to other laws was, I remember, launched last November. To remind you that this bill provides for additional measures to be taken against child-residence evaders. To put it plainly, as it already sounded here, it is a draft of pressure on maintenance debtors. By the deadline for tabling amendments19. By 31 December, no amendments were tabled to the draft of the Riigikogu. In November, the Estonian Banking Association proposed not to impose an obligation on Estonian credit institutions to control maintenance debts. No other opinions or suggestions on the draft were received. The Committee on Legal Affairs prepared a second reading in two sittings on 14 and 17 January. On 14 January, representatives of the Ministry of Justice and the Estonian Banking Association took part in the meeting and on 17 January, Andra Olm, adviser to the private law department of the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice. I don't read all the names, they're in the draft documents. The proposal was discussed in substance at the first session and approved at the second session. There was a consensus on the draft amendment, which was prompted by the Eesti Pank Association's appeal. A little longer than that. I would simply point out, for example, that if this amendment, which was initiated by the banking union, was not taken into account, credit institutions would be obliged, under the preliminary draft, to monitor all cash withdrawals from private accounts of more than EUR 5000, as well as cash deposits, i.e. the credit institution should look at, or maybe you are not in the register of maintenance debtors. However, this is not proportionate, as the representatives of Swedbank and SEB Bank confirmed, since the attachment of maintenance debtors' current accounts already ensures that maintenance debtors cannot make payments from the frozen accounts and cash deposits need not be limited. Of course, this requires that bailiffs have done their job properly. As has already been said here, credit institutions do not consider it reasonable that increasing their administrative burden is intended to prevent transactions with those maintenance debtors whose accounts have not been seized by bailiffs for any reason. I will give an example of the minutes of the sitting, which will explain the debate on this issue. It asked what would change if the Commission did not take account of the Banking Union proposal. The answer was that in such a case the credit institution would have to carry out additional checks for each cash payment exceeding the limit, regardless of whether or not the account has been seized. The bank has no information about maintenance debtors. There was also a question of the motivation the Ministry of Justice decided that credit institutions should carry out additional checks on all persons wishing to withdraw cash from their accounts. The representative of the Ministry explained that the reason is that there are very many maintenance creditors in Estonia who actually have funds but who do not want to pay the living. Therefore, measures were developed, one of which is the measure in question. It was also mentioned that the flow of information between bailiffs and credit institutions should be accelerated. In this way, the bank could be more effective in preventing a maintenance debtor from using the money, inter alia, from withdrawing money from an ATM. The debate was a little longer, but here I'm just gonna stop at it. Finally, procedural decisions were taken, in particular at the meeting on 17 January. The credit institutions were unanimously excluded from the scope of § 117 of the Code of Enforcement Procedure. The decision was also to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 23 January, the second reading to be closed and the second reading to be sent to third reading when the second one is closed by 20 February, the final vote on the draft will be held. Thank you again for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U194	Thank you, dear waitress, Mrs Urve Tiidus. No questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has tabled one amendment to the draft, which has been fully taken into account. We have examined the amendment. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 737. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U195	The 11th item is the first reading of the Trademark Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Law on the Foundations of Industrial Property Law and the Act amending other laws. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice of the Chair, for presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U196	Honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable representative of the people! The Government has submitted to Parliament a draft law amending the Trade Mark Act, the Industrial Property Law Act and other laws aimed, in short, at encouraging civil turnover containing creative solutions. This should be achieved in the government's vision by means of two ways. We are transposing into Estonian law the European Union directive on trade mark legislation in the Member States in order, therefore, to ensure, in a broader sense, an effective and rapid organisation of the appeal committee for industrial property. To briefly mark the possible changes introduced by the transposition of the Trade Marks Directive in the Trade Marks Act and proposed in this draft, these are the following: Firstly, the draft removes the requirement in current law that a mark protected as a trade mark must be graphically depicted. Secondly, the draft abolishes the examination of so-called relative grounds preventing the registration of a trade mark in the Patent Office. Thirdly, in future proceedings before the appeal committee, only the existence of an earlier right can be relied upon. It is important to extend the competence of the Board of Appeal in accordance with the requirements of the Directive. As the directive requires clearer institutional independence in the appeal committee, the draft directive should lead the appeal committee from the Ministry of Justice to the Patent Office. The draft also clarifies and shortens the time limits for the parties to proceedings in the appeal proceedings and provides for a number of further ways to improve the efficiency of the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U197	Thank you, Minister of Justice. You have at least one question. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U198	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. This draft law replaces the guarantee mark with a certification mark. What is the reason for this change? I read in the coordination table that the Chamber of Commerce has also expressed its insistence on why such a substitution is needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U199	Thank you for this very appropriate problem. This draft has been carried out in depth and has sought to involve stakeholders as far as possible. It must now be acknowledged that as regards the possibility of replacing the registration of warranty marks with the possibility of registering certification marks, the government has presented this draft in the presumption that it should be expected to better meet the needs of Estonian entrepreneurs, on the basis that until now the possibility of registration of guarantee marks has been significantly unpopular among users.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U200	Krista Aru, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U201	Mr President! Minister, thank you very much. I'll come back to the last question. If the registration of the warranty mark has been unpopular, then perhaps there are other reasons. Should it be replaced by a second mark, hopefully, that certification and labelling should be boosted? I don't understand what the point is right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U202	The substantive justification is that, if one method of intellectual property protection has not been realised in practice, it is intended to replace it by an option or method which would be expected to be more extensive in the light of the practical needs of economic operators. That's the starting point.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U203	Mr. Minister, there are no further questions for you. Please speak to Tarmo Kruusimäe, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U204	A good vice-chairman, ladies and gentlemen in this hall and also in the offices, and everyone interested in the citizens of the Republic of Estonia who follow me through the Internet! The Economic Commission met at 14 p.m. on 22 January. I will read the minutes for the benefit of those present at the meeting. Juhatas Sven Sester, the reporter was Annaliisa Jäme and took part in Tarmo Kruusimäe, Toomas Kivimägi, Arto Aas, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Marrandi, Märt Sults, Peeter Ernits, Elis Themas (He is our consultant), Kaido Rosin (Head of Adviser-Secretariat) and Marin Daniel ( Advisor). Mr Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, and Mr Gea Lepik, Adviser to the Department of Private Law in the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice, were invited. We heard the Minister, we asked very good questions, we got even better answers. To save your time, I won't read them, you can all look at them in the record. Of course, after that, it was decided, firstly, to propose the termination of the first reading (there was a consensus), and, secondly, to propose a deadline of 28 January 2019 at 10 a.m. (there was another consensus). So I'm waiting for your questions. Thank you. Please support the bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U205	Dear waitress Tarmo Kruusimäe, there are no questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U206	Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U207	I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 793. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 793 amendments, including 28 January at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U208	We are going to the 12th item on today's agenda. First reading of draft law 771 on audit activities initiated by the Government of the Republic, the prevention and resolution of the financial crisis and other amendments to laws (reform of financial misdemeanours, penalties under EU law). Please speak to Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U209	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Today, at first reading, there is a draft setting out the higher ceiling for misdemeanours in the specific laws of the financial sector. This is the second stage of the amendments to financial sanctions, which provides for the possibility of imposing administrative penalties under European Union law in misdemeanour proceedings. The second draft pending before the Riigikogu which amends the Penal Code provides the basis for the application of high administrative fines. This draft will transpose into national law the maximum financial penalties laid down in European Union law relating to the financial sector and the basis for their calculation. It will also provide for the possibility of applying high financial penalties where the existing maximum financial penalties do not allow the objectives set out in European Union legislation to be met. Financial penalties with a high ceiling ensure the possibility of imposing penalties that are correlated with the activities and risks of the financial institution, are effective and the preventive effects of the infringements are effective. The changes are part of the creation of a stable and reliable financial service environment, as well as the protection of the rights of consumers of services. The draft has been submitted to the first reading as amended by the decision of the Committee on Legal Affairs. The amendments to the AML/CFT Act concerning the proof of the legal origin of property and the ownership of property by the State have been deleted. As the measure not included in the draft is considered effective and effective in preventing money laundering and terrorist financing, work is still ongoing in the framework of this procedure. In developing the burden of proof of suspected money laundering assets and the regulation of state ownership, it is important to strike a balance between the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing and the measures taken to mitigate them and the violation of the freedom to conduct a business and the fundamental rights of a person. The draft also strengthens the requirements for the authorisation of the virtual currency service provider and the wallet service provider in order to reduce the associated risks of money laundering and terrorist financing and other criminal offences. Until now, the obligations under European Union law to apply higher-rate financial sanctions in the event of certain infringements have been implemented through the enforcement of forced money into Estonian law, which may not, however, ensure the fulfilment of the obligations to the required extent. Therefore, the rates of fines in force in the specific financial legislation are amended. The existing criminal fines ceilings for both natural and legal persons are not comparable to those of the financial sector. The draft provides for a specific sanction ceiling for both natural and legal persons, i.e. a fixed financial penalty. Secondly, different relative criminal sanctions ceilings have been set. Thus, the calculation of the financial penalty may also be based on the benefits of a double or triple infringement or the avoided loss or a certain percentage of the turnover of the legal person. Financial penalties and procedures for the calculation of turnover under the increased ceiling provided for in the Charter are the result of European Union legislation and are somewhat different. For example, in the event of an infringement, a credit institution may be fined up to 10% of its or its group's net turnover, up to 5% of the total turnover in the insurance sector. The principle applies that the financial penalty calculated on the basis of turnover may be higher than the fixed penalty ceiling and higher penalties should be preferred according to the logic of the ceilings. In processing the authorisation of a virtual currency, the FIU will further check the background and suitability of the members of the management body of the undertaking. In addition, the condition is that the company's seat and head office or branch must be located in Estonia. The law is intended to enter into force in the normal course of the first half of 2019, provided that the amendments to the Penal Code allowing the application of financial penalties with an increased ceiling have also entered into force. Thank you and please support the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U210	Thank you, Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste. You don't seem to have any questions. Please speak to Jüri Saare, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U211	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me introduce this draft law, number 771, to the proceedings of the Legal Committee of the Riigikogu. The Government of the Republic initiated this draft on 3 December 2018 and the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the draft for the first time on 17 December. In addition to members of the Legal Affairs Committee, representatives of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Interior, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Financial Intelligence Unit, the Ministry of Justice, the Estonian Bar Association and the Office of the Chancellor of Justice participated in the discussion. During this debate, the Minister of Finance and the representative of the Financial Intelligence Unit supported the draft as presented, as they considered that it significantly improves the possibilities of combating money laundering and terrorist financing and significantly reduces the attractiveness of Estonia as a country of destination for money laundering. A representative of the FIU highly appreciated the burden of proof of the legal origin of the proposed asset, as there is often no possibility of identifying the relationship with pre-crime when money moves. The Ministry of Justice pointed out the advantages of administrative confiscation as compared to confiscation on the basis of a conviction, since in the first case, it is sufficient to indicate the illegal origin of the property without absconding a particular person. The representatives of the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice presented the main points of the written opinion of the Chancellor of Justice. Raivo Aeg, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, stressed the need to set out the focus of the draft and to think about the limit of application. He also acknowledged the fact that Parliament's current composition would not be able to adopt the draft as a law, but the direction was the right one. This was agreed by the members of the committee from Vilja Toomas and Külliki Kübarsepp. Jaanus Karilaid, Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, proposed that the draft be continued in January 2019 and hoped that the text of the draft could be better formulated in order to find a larger joint section and put the focus in place. He stressed the need to ensure the objective of the draft, i.e. to combat money laundering and terrorist financing more effectively, without seriously damaging the business environment. The draft criticism submitted by the Chancellor of Justice should also be examined. Now for the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice. In its opinion of 14 December 2018, the Chancellor of Justice identified important issues in the draft law, as it gives the State free rein to the administrative seizure and subsequent administrative confiscation of sums of money of unknown origin, whatever their size. Thus, there may be significant interference with the privileges of self-incrimination (Article 22 of the Constitution) and the fundamental right to property (Article 32 of the Constitution). The aim of anti-money laundering measures is to increase the credibility and transparency of the business environment. In order to avoid disproportionate use of the measure, a more precise targeting of the measure would be limited to the introduction of an asset limit to the fight against international money laundering. In addition, the Chancellor of Justice stated that the amendments proposed by the draft act are of a fundamental nature and have an impact on fundamental rights, values protected by the Constitution as well as the business environment, which is why these changes need to be considered. The Bar Association delivered an opinion on this draft to the Committee on Legal Affairs on 8 January 2019. The Attorney General found that the proposed draft removed the rule of law and recommended that amendments to the AML/CFT Act be deleted from the draft as regards the burden of proof. The new anti-money laundering law has already tightened the rules, but has also led to problems, such as the requirement to identify the beneficial owner for legal persons. At the same time, the advocacy urged not to rush the draft as it would lead to a substantial increase in the obligations of private parties and a reduction in fundamental rights for the sake of the country's procedural convenience. On 17 January, including the debate on this matter, the Committee on Legal Affairs held the following debate. The Minister of Finance, the Minister of the Interior and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Estonian Bar Association and the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice also participated. In particular, the debate took place on the burden of proof of the legal origin of property, which had been criticised in the past. The Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Jaanus Karilaid, suggested in one way that the part concerning the burden of proof should be deleted from the text of the first reading and added to the text of the second reading as specified. The specifications would relate in particular to the use of the measure only in the case of international transfers of funds. Representatives of the FIU pointed out that the Bureau already has strict rules on which the restriction can be invoked. The Ministry of Finance considered that the burden of proof put forward improves the business environment and harms it only in so far as it concerns companies that are suspected of money laundering. The lawyer's representative considered the turned proof procedure to be fundamentally inappropriate and detrimental to the investment climate in Estonia. According to him, the Anti-Money Laundering Act, which entered into force in November 2017, has already had a significant impact and several investments have not been made in Estonia. The Chancellor of Justice had no objection to the reverse of the burden of proof. The Committee on Legal Affairs made consensual proposals to close the first reading and to set the deadline of 6 February 2019 for the submission of amendments. At the meeting of 17 January 2019, the Legal Affairs Committee decided to submit a draft law 771 as amended to the Riigikogu for the first reading. The change was the removal and recasting of the provisions on the burden of proof of the legal origin of the property. The title of the draft law was also changed, and the expression "the burden of proof of the legal origin of the property' was removed. The decision was made in a consensual manner. The Ministry of Finance also agreed to refer the draft as amended to first reading. On 21 January 2019 the Legal Affairs Committee presented this bill to the Riigikogu for first reading as amended. The deadline for submitting amendments is still 6 February 2019 at 4 p.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U212	Thank you, dear waitress Jüri Saar. You have questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U213	Good manager! Good waitress! Interesting bill. I hope you've read all this. My first question, however, is this. Look at how much the FIU has dealt with these accounts and seized them: 80 in 2015, it has fallen to about 50 in 2015, but the columns of sums are getting longer and longer. Did 2015, when these famous things took place here, the FIU dealt with such garbage fish, small accounts with little money on them, and after that has suddenly started dealing with so-called larger fish or accounts with more money on them? Is that true or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U214	You're absolutely right. Penalty rates will be tightened, such as increasing administrative fines from EUR 32000 to EUR 5 million, and the time for the FIU to be processed will be extended in case of suspicion of money laundering, currently up to a maximum of 90 days, planned to be extended over a year. So it is quite the right observation that major and serious money laundering cases have to be dealt with, as was the case of Danske, which seriously harmed Estonia's reputation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U215	Peter Ernits, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U216	Good manager! Good waitress! It would be a lot to ask, but I'm going to follow up on the previous question: why, when Danske was here so-called booming, did our Financial Intelligence Bureau deal with the garbage accounts, if you could say so, with small things, and didn't touch the bigger ones? Secondly, it has been said here that terminology is confusing, there is no common terminology in this area, yet a draft has been tabled. Will you shed some light on that last side?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U217	Now, if you look at where the winds are blowing internationally, it turns out that such large-scale money laundering has been viewed in a very different way in the last few years. Earlier, when money came to the Western countries, the background of which may not have been very clean, but it did a lot of good, it provided work and bread and added value on the ground, it was thought that what was there. But in time, it turned out that these things weren't so simple that this black money problem would pay off more seriously later. This is such a relatively new issue at this level. What else can I draw attention to? During the discussions in the Committee on Legal Affairs, there was also talk about the fact that the representatives of the Bar Association stressed in particular that we have criminal proceedings with all our guarantees. Unfortunately, in this new world, where things are happening more quickly and on larger scale, criminal proceedings may not be able to keep up at all with the speed of these 'criminals'. So there is no doubt about the imposition of administrative fines in misdemeanour proceedings as much as we speak according to the theory of the classical rule of law, it is very questionable to speak of the pain caused by the sanction. For Mastercard, I think the European Commission is making this kind of news yesterday, EUR 700 million in fines for breach of competition law. All these sanctions have already moved into the administrative sphere and we are moving in the same direction as the entire Western world.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U218	Dear waitress Jüri Saar, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 771. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 771 amendments, including 6 February at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U219	Let's go to item 13. First reading of the draft law amending the State Statistics Act and the Public Information Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please speak to Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U220	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The first reading is the draft law amending the State Statistics Act and the Public Information Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The aim of the amendments is to make more efficient use of the data collected by the State. With amendments to the National Statistics Act, we want to allow data to be used more widely than in a single institution, i.e. to provide a basis for data sharing services. The amendment to the Public Information Act provides for the coordination of data management to the Statistical Office and introduces a mandate rule to establish more precise data management requirements and conditions. Data science is an area where the next major leap of development is expected to benefit the entire society. They say the data is new oil. Data, and in particular the use of data, relate to the quality of decision-making both in society and in politics. In the light of economic innovation or lasting development, data usage itself stimulates economic development. Innovative data use takes place in a wide range of areas of life, from medicine to creative industries and from digitalisation of industry to environmental issues. In view of the future, the most important thing is to make more extensive use of data so that data is not limited to the area where they have been collected and used for their own use. It is important to view data in national databases as national data. This is precisely the aim of the legislative changes to be made to the first reading today, so that the problems facing society do not get caught up in the sectoral constraints. To this end, a data-sharing service will be included in the National Statistics Act, which will allow the linking of different data sources in the future. The processing of data shall also be limited. To date, it has not been possible to share data between public authorities because there has been no legal basis for this. This Riigikogu has the opportunity to contribute to this. The Data Sharing Service will enable Statistics Estonia to better target the data already available to the country to other public authorities. There is an opportunity to cross-use data between public authorities and thereby reduce duplication of data. The two most important changes concern how data protection can be ensured during data sharing. First of all, the draft clearly states that the provision of data-sharing services will be subject to the monitoring of the rules and principles relating to the protection of personal data and the protection of business, tax and banking secrecy. It is also foreseen that the data to be disseminated shall not be used for any purpose other than statistical and scientific. The use of non-ruled data may infringe the rights of data subjects and, therefore, their protection is provided for in the provision of data sharing services. According to the draft, the Statistical Office is required to coordinate data management at national level, which means that the Statistical Office will become a data competence centre. Extending the rights of Statistics Estonia increases Estonia's ability to use data effectively across the country. The Agency shall be empowered to exercise administrative supervision over compliance with data management requirements. It is also necessary to ensure that data are not collected more than once and that data quality is improved. The draft also allows Eesti Pank to collect data in an integrated manner and share these data. In addition to its other tasks, Eesti Pank collects data for national statistics; the same data is often collected by the Financial Supervision Authority. At the moment, these two institutions are not in a position to collect the same data in a single report. The aim is to reduce the workload of reporting agents in reporting, which will lead to an integrated collection of data from a single report, but for different purposes, i.e. merely once. This principle, that 'we ask once, we use it several times', has been proposed by the Committee on Economic Affairs that the public information law should also be registered in cooperation with the Commission. Implementation of the amendments will ensure that data from the databases can be linked to each other by the Statistical Office. Data owners can provide better services, reduce administrative burden and carry out a more diverse analysis on the basis of data already collected. The implementation of the new regime will allow Estonia to obtain a better overview of the data we collect, assess the need to collect them and complete the multiple collection of data where this is possible. On the other hand, the use of data in real decision-making is promoted. Thank you for your attention and I would like to ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U221	Thank you. Good Minister, there are questions for you. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U222	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! You mentioned it briefly. Am I right to understand that this proposal, which we made on behalf of the Reform Party in the Commission, and which you took a favourable view of, the same one-only principle of one-off data provision, that the state is given data only once, could receive a law-level letter so that it would not remain in the government's regulation but come into the law? Do you agree to support it and will you make a full contribution to the implementation of this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U223	Thank you. We agree with the introduction of the wording of this principle into the law. This can be done in the Public Information Act. We can agree on that. Certainly, some part of the regulation must also be regulated.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U224	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U225	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In data management, we're talking machine-readable metadata. However, by reviewing both the draft law and its explanatory memorandum, I did not find any unambiguous wording that we are talking about machine-readable data. Is this standard agreed by default then, or is it assumed that all data are machine-readable and that all law enforcement will understand this unambiguously?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U226	Thank you. Indeed, we are currently collecting many different data, these data are collected by different authorities and there is actually no cross-use, or there is a great deal of duplication. Simply put, the idea of this draft is to address this problem, which is often referred to by the demandsers and critics of state reform. If you ask where this problem is or where it would be necessary for the so-called state reform, I dare say that eight out of ten are starting to say that you see, I had a desire from Statistics Estonia to get this information, that is bureaucracy, why the data that I have already published, etc. is not being used. This is actually a large part of the state reform that we are always talking about, so we will have the opportunity to use the data at our disposal as effectively as possible and ask for as little information as possible. In return, we will return this information. Perhaps in a few years' time, I hope very much, there will be a chance with some clicks to get information on how someone's company will position among other similar companies or other companies located in the same region. It will certainly also have an effect on the work of companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U227	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U228	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. A nice bill. You said the data was new oil. We have 2038 databases, i.e. boreholes, and Statistics Estonia draws oil from only 106 wells. So is most of these wells or databases running empty? The Statistical Office, I understand, doesn't use them. Or does he? Explain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U229	Thank you. This is the same problem that I explained earlier that there has been a question, and there will be a lot of different data being asked for in the future. Their real need and importance must now be assessed. It has often been the case that some agencies wish to receive information and have submitted their wish to Statistics Estonia, this example is like taking a history check it out, and so it is in some polls. The point is that we will continue to use these data held by public authorities, which have already been collected from people, by means of cross-use, which, as a result of data sharing, will become possible, as effectively as possible, and we will actually review the data we collect.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U230	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U231	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. This draft gives Statistics Estonia the opportunity to offer new services. They do not have to comply with international statistical work rules, etc. Do you have any idea, or do you know, what kind of services the Statistical Office might be offering?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U232	Thank you. One of the most important things, perhaps when we look at politics or government, is that the more accurate the data, the more precise and better the decisions we can make, the more accurate the picture of life itself. The other side is that it can also offer a completely new level to companies and people who fill out these questionnaires. They receive answers to many of their questions through the information they collect, which will help them make forward-looking and hopefully business decisions in business.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U233	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U234	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I still couldn't answer the question that if Statistics Estonia didn't use a well or a database in 1932 and they worked empty, whether they had to be "sealed" by the state, there would no longer be such data. However, on the other hand, there are 40,000 as I read here the reporting agent for business purposes and you want to shut down 4,000 oil rigs every year. Explain it a little bit. Are they working empty, or are such a serious siege planned? Of course, it's nice in itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U235	Thank you. Yeah, to a large extent, they work empty. This is the inefficiency, this duplication, that data cannot be cross-used and that national authorities ask for different data and have different data. Thanks to the creation of a data-sharing service, the possibility of interoperability of data, there will certainly be a huge number of wells closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U236	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U237	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! It is a really nice thing, but the question is, who now thought that such good changes would need to be implemented, pooled databases and reduced the number of staff involved in all of this. Where did that come from? Was it that kind of look at Statistics, or has it come from the ministry you run, and not during the last minister's time? Who thought of that now?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U238	Thank you. This agenda and this desire has been, I dare say, the last 15 to 20 years of the year up all the time. I don't understand why they didn't do it before. In fact, it needs a change of law and a clear understanding of what you want to do and where you want to go. I am very pleased that Statistics Estonia has a very strong leader, Mart Mägi, who has had as long experience as I have for two years. There are very strong specialists in the Ministry of Finance, somehow they try to disparagingly make it look like they're some kind of bad people who don't want or don't want to work. I commend them. I also applaud such a political order as a whole. If there is a problem, it must be solved. This whole thing is right here in front of you today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U239	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U240	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm relentlessly coming back to that machine readability. Is it not precisely because we do not have a machine-readable list of all data that has not yet been cross-used? However, I do not find in the explanatory memorandum or in the draft itself a place where it is clearly stated that machine-readable must be guaranteed for metadata. Is there another data description agreement coming up if it is not fixed here?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U241	Thank you. The topic of "cooperation" between machines or reading data is what I intend to do at the next point where e-invoicing is concerned. The principle is correct. But the problem is a little more prosaic. Different public authorities have different IT systems that do not run into each other. It is often the case that everyone has been picking on their own. The result is that the compilation of data, their common description, so that they can be used machine-readablely, must be done first, these common standards must be implemented. This is the job that's going on today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U242	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U243	Thank you, Mr President. Like my colleague, I will return to a previous issue. You mentioned that the data is new oil. Indeed, some 15 years ago it was said that the data were new gold and new oil, bearing in mind commercial profitability. Can you tell us, please, how can this possession of data be transformed into some sort of financially measurable benefit?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U244	Thank you. The financial benefits are when the information is much more accurate, better targeted and we can all make better and more precise decisions. It is priceless in financial terms: the right decisions are the new oil. The other side is that you can also share certain data with the private sector, with companies that can pull together a number of jobs because it is possible to get the data from Statistics Estonia with a few clicks.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U245	Mr Finance Minister, there are no further questions for you. Please speak to Mr Sults, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U246	Honourable manager! Colleagues! The Economic Commission discussed draft law 784 on 21 January including. The meeting was chaired by Sven Sester, Annalisa Jame, the members of the committee were Toomas Kivimägi, Arto Aas, Eevi Paasmäe, who was Erki Savisaar's alternate, Jaanus Marrandi, Kristen Michal, Märt Sults, Peeter Ernits, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Adviser-Secretary General Kaido Rosin, advisor Marin Daniel and advisor Piia Schults. Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste, Deputy Secretary General of Administrative Policy of the Ministry of Finance Raigo Uukkivi, Head Specialist of the Department of Public Administration and Public Service Keir Pool and Director General of Statistics Estonia Mart Mägi were invited. The second item on the agenda was the draft law amending the State Statistics Act and the Public Information Act, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic, to send the debate to the first reading. In principle, the Minister presented a very thorough review. Mr Michal also asked the minister in the Commission about the question he was asking here. So basically, it was a good emotional thing. I asked this question, because there is cross-use, but the level of information technology in the various agencies is not comparable, how compatible different wired languages, i.e. IT languages, whether the machines are not collapsing. It's just a silly example that a person may have multiple residence addresses and in different polls he's given different addresses and then running into four or five addresses on the machine, basically the machine says suddenly 'Error! 'and that's the whole one-time entry in the woods. But I got the exhaustive answers. Decisions were made. The decisions were such: to propose that the first reading be stopped (consensual or unanimous, no one opposed), and the second was to propose that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 25 January (this decision was also consensual or unanimous). Given that, in addition to this week, there are three more working weeks in plenary during which the draft procedure could be closed, the time limit for proposing amendments is so short, as in principle the time for its membership will be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U247	Thank you. Dear waitress, March Sults, you have at least one question. George Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U248	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Municipalities must have a person in charge of data management. This is likely due to this law. Are these data managers going to be trained somewhere? Who's training them? Was this also the subject of the debate in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U249	Thank you for your question. This was not directly mentioned in the Commission, but I can tell you from my experience, since I have long been the headmaster of school, there is a special person responsible for the accuracy and confidentiality of data. That's what a man is meant to be. I think that if the municipality transfers data to Statistics Estonia, for example, then there must certainly be someone in charge who is also accountable to the law, not that we are responsible, but, oh, a mistake happened. I'm very skeptical about the Internet and about the clouds at all, there are extremely many crash sites. Smart boys-girls who start to learn from kindergarten after programming try the strength of all firewalls at some point.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U250	Mr Sults, thank you for your answer to the question and your report. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 794. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 794 amendments, including on 25 January at 16 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U251	We have come to the last item on today's agenda. First reading of Bill 795 amending the Accounting Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please speak to Finance Minister Toomas Tõniste.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U252	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! You have before you a draft law amending the Accounting Act. With this draft, we want to change the accounting arrangements so that only e-invoices can be submitted to the public sector institutions of the central government, local authorities with their sub-offices and other public sector in the future. There has been talk of modernising the accounts of public sector institutions for years. Modern technological solutions allow accounting to be carried out much faster and easier than has been the case so far. We spend unnecessary time entering paper and PDF accounts into economic software, because the bills are not machine-readable. These problems have been highlighted by the National Centre for Support Services and the Centre for Registers and Information Systems, with whom there has been close cooperation in drafting the draft. Deficiencies in current settlement have also been highlighted by the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association together with its members. The transition to e-invoicing will reduce the administrative burden and the time needed to process invoices. Public authorities already have an obligation to accept e-invoices if a private service provider wishes to submit them. This obligation was imposed on public authorities in 2017 and the necessary investments have been made. However, as private service providers are not obliged to send e-invoices, only 20% of all invoices sent to the public sector are e-invoices. We believe that now is the time to take the next step. To this end, the state has to switch completely to e-invoices in accounting and refrain from accepting invoices on paper and in PDF form. Dear Riigikogu, the bill before you will do so. The purpose of the draft is to establish a regulation that supports and boosts the use of machine-processing invoices in national accounts in order to reduce the time, amount of work and costs involved in processing invoices. Information technology is today one of the main tools for increasing the competitiveness of any economic and life sector. Therefore, the regulation of the accounting area must take into account the current and future possibilities of information technology. The draft law amending the Accounting Act creates prerequisites for the general spread of machine-processing invoices and for improving the administrative capacity of the state. The changes set out in the draft act create opportunities for promoting innovation both in the public sector and in the private sector. The introduction of e-invoices in the public sector is particularly concerned with the adoption of purchase invoices as e-invoices. However, public authorities will also be obliged to send e-invoices if the recipient is another public entity. For example, Austria, Italy, Lithuania, France, Sweden, Finland, Denmark and a number of other European countries have made e-invoicing compulsory for the public sector. Of course, the question arises of the readiness of the private sector for such a change. I can assure you that most of the major billers have the capacity to do so. For those whose accounting system does not allow it to do so automatically, the state has created a free e-solution. All you need to use it is a computer or a smartphone. The draft has been dealt with publicly, stakeholders have been given the opportunity to comment on the draft and comments received have been taken into account in the draft. This is a natural step in modernising accounting, which helps to save accounting spending in the public sector. This step is certainly one of the catalysts for the wider spread of e-invoicing in the private sector as well. This is how Estonia's e-state expands, and as a society we save time and money, which is now spent on accounting. I would ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U253	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U254	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Indeed, to public authorities, this bill is no surprise. You yourself mentioned that small private companies could, if necessary, start using an e-invoicing provider. Do you need any prior application to use this e-invoicer, it has some form? How do you want to join this e-invoice?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U255	Thank you. Go to an entrepreneur's portal with the link 'E-dealer', and that's where you can make your own invoice. If something gets unclear, it can happen the first time, it can also provide information. As I said, in most accounting programmes this possibility has already been created, in fact, many have in some respects submitted e-invoices. At the moment, it may simply be 'directed' to those who think that the PDF account is also an e-invoice, who do not understand that it works as a photo transmission, in the right direction to reduce everyone's work capacity, the possibility of error and manual work. In short, as was the case with the ID-card, it also seemed very difficult to see how people have to use it and so on, but today it is self-evident to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U256	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U257	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister of Finance! The compulsory use of e-invoicing for the public sector has actually been in work for a few years. I remember that a few years ago, when there was an idea on the table to make it an obligation for private operators, one topic was still the lack of such programmes and some additional costs for private operators. Now let me get this straight. One way is for this e-environment, where it can be formalized? You also referred to certain accounting programmes that maybe larger private operators have been able to acquire, and this is also possible. Is it possible to help the state in the form of the same programme if it is another and perhaps easier and convenient way to submit these e-invoicing? Does this, in your opinion, mean extra financial costs for a private operator, provided that he has a computer?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U258	Thank you. Yeah, I guess it was about 2016 and it was stuck because it was found that if a small company had to settle like this, it could cost it. At the time, there really was a situation where a small cost would have arisen. The development of information technology has now also contributed to this. On the one hand, many accounting programmes already take this opportunity into account so that there is no additional cost. On the other hand, in response to this concern or criticism, the state has created an e-interviewer where it can be done free of charge. So the troubles that were up at the time are, as far as I know, down today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U259	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U260	Good waitress! Good manager! I am surprised to see that 40% of companies send only one bill a year. Can you tell me what kind of bill it is only comes once a year? Nearly half of the companies send only one invoice per year. What's the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U261	Thank you. In so much detail, I can't tell you what the bill is. I believe these are very different accounts. But really, if we're talking about micro-enterprises who may have to send one or two bills a year, for example, they sell some amount of carrots or strawberries once or twice a year, then really, this one bill can be done nicely by the e-invoice provider and doesn't have to get any accounting program or join the e-operator.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U262	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U263	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. A very brief question. This draft will transpose the corresponding EU Directive on e-invoicing. I think you mentioned these more advanced countries, but how is this generally the situation in the Member States of the European Union? However, how quickly can we switch to e-payment?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U264	Thank you. It is a little awkward, yes, that as our e-state, with a very good image in this field, we are left behind in the ranks. I think we are behind the average for e-invoicing among the members of the European Union. So it's high time. This is also important financially. It is estimated that there are very different estimates, but, for example, a calculation has been made that the cost of processing a single invoice is about EUR 2.5 and that if the public sector has to process more than 2 million a year, the revenue that we gain from it is estimated to be in millions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U265	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U266	Yeah, the numbers are mysterious. You mentioned nearly 2 million public accounts. I looked at the blueprint, it turned out Rakvere City Hall alone has 12,000 accounts. A small adjustment and it turns out that there would be only 160 such public institutions in Estonia. How's that gonna work out? Actually, there's a lot more of them. Or is Rakvere City Government particularly eager to make such accounts? It doesn't add up, I guess.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U267	Thank you. I don't have such a detailed calculation of which municipality sent or received the number of bills. But on the one hand, it shows that the work is on and that there is a lot of resources going on. Only 20% are e-invoices that machines count; processing the rest is actually a pure bureaucratic cost. So there's a lot of places to save.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U268	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U269	Thank you, Mr President, for the second time. Dear Minister, Does this draft concern only companies, or is there an obligation to submit e-invoices when communicating with the public sector, for example, for NGOs and natural persons? Is this an obligation for all individuals?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U270	Yes, now everyone who bills the public sector has to do it as an e-invoice. That's the principle. The public sector here is meant in the broadest sense, including national companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U271	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U272	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! First of all, I have to say that I think this is a very sensible proposal and it is very good that you brought this draft here. We are trying to make the most of ourselves to deal with this draft during its membership. I am simply asking that during the round of coordination, you certainly had contact with all the parties involved, I presume, both with the Information Technology Association and with business organisations. What feedback came and did this draft find support or no support?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U273	Yes, the procedure for this draft has been public. In 2016, business organisations were asked for more detailed feedback. According to today's information, only positive feedback has been heard that there was a time when it had not been done before, etc. Really. I have not heard any reproach, rather it has been asked why so late. All these proposals, which have come, have also been taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U274	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U275	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Based on your last reply, I also wondered why this was not done earlier. Why are we doing this at the last minute?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U276	Thank you. There was one possibility in 2016, when he was at the end of the line, but I realized that there was a discussion in the Riigikogu that this service should still be free of charge for everyone when there is an obligation to settle with the public sector. That was one of the reasons I've figured out why he got stuck. Today, this problem has been solved. I really have a request for you to deal with this quickly. I am pleased if you can process this, because it is a very important draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U277	Mr. Minister, there are no further questions for you. Thank you. Please speak to the Chair of the Economic Commission, Mr Sester.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U278	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, it is an important draft, of course, why it should not be if it makes it cheaper for the taxpayer first and, on the other hand, it will also make it easier for everyone in the future. As an e-state, I think that sooner or later, we should adopt this law as much sooner as possible. I will give an overview of what took place at the Commission meeting during the debate on this particular item on the agenda. At its meeting on 21 January, the Commission held a debate on this specific draft bill of amendment to the Accounting Act, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic, with a view to sending this draft to its first reading. A number of people from outside the Commission had come to present this draft to us. The Minister of Finance, Toomas Tõniste, was the so-called "stopper," was given a second in the debate at the Commission by Deputy Secretary General Raigo Uukkivi, Deputy Chancellor of Administrative Policy of the Ministry of Finance, and Keir Pool, Head Specialist of the Department of Public Administration and Public Service, as well as Mart Mägi, Director General of Statistics Estonia. Toomas Tõniste introduced the draft, just as he introduced it in this Chamber, and pointed out all the objectives why this draft is here in the Riigikogu today. It is worth repeating, however, that the purpose of the draft is to transfer state accounts to fully machine-operated invoices, i.e. e-invoices. Just as the Minister mentioned here before, when someone sends someone a PDF invoice, it's not an e-invoice, it's a common picture sent in an attachment. E-invoices are still machine-processing. In the Commission, Toomas Tõniste also stated that, in the event that the draft Act enters into force, we will certainly win real time in the future when dealing with these invoices and reduce the financial cost. All of this makes sense in terms of the so-called state budget. The Minister also stated today in this Chamber that, in essence, a fifth of the companies deal with such settlement that they pass on e-invoices in the public sector. At this point, I asked for it to be made clear that if a country already has an obligation to accept e-invoices, but their submission has been voluntary, whether the purpose of the draft is specifically to ensure that, in future, there would be not only an obligation to accept e-invoices but also an obligation for both the public and private sectors to submit e-invoices for goods and services to the state. Raigo Uukkivi confirmed that the bill really has this purpose. Today, I would like to point out that the state has an obligation to accept e-invoices, if anyone wants to send them, now there is a situation where there is also an obligation to send them. That is the difference: today there is an obligation to accept; in the future there will also be an obligation to send. Toomas Kivimägi was interested in the Commission (the same question) specifically about the interest groups in how they have been interacted with whether they have been coordinated. Vice Chancellor Uukkivi confirmed that stakeholders have been involved and their comments have been taken into account. The last round of coordination received further comments from the Association for Information Technology and Telecommunications and this comment has also been taken into account in the explanatory memorandum. It was clear to the Members of the Commission that there was no longer any need to discuss this issue at length. The decisions were reached and these were: to send the draft to the first reading in the hall today, so I am here in front of you, and to finish the first reading (the decision was consensual), and we are proposing to set the deadline for the submission of amendments on 25 January. 4 p.m. (this decision was also consensual). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-23_U279	Mr Sven Sester, President of the Committee on Economic Affairs, thank you very much for your presentation. No questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Since there are no callers, I will close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 795. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 795 amendments, including on 25 January at 16 a.m. We have finished processing the items on today's agenda. Have a good night, all of you! The sitting is adjourned. Have a nice winter night! Closure of the sitting at 6.32 p.m.
