ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We are in a position to start our work. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. Thank you very much. Our agenda consists of three points. The first point concerns the reading of the message of the President of the Republic on the non-promulgation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 127 / XV — establishes the legal framework for the issue of administrative measures to be adopted by schools for the implementation of Law No 38 / 2018 of 7 August 2018 and is amended accordingly. I shall now read the message from Mr President of the Republic : Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, 1. I address your Excellency in accordance with Article 136 ( 1 ). that of the Constitution, transmitting this message to the Assembly of the Republic on the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 127 / XV, received in Bethlehem on 10 January, which raises questions that invite to its remuneration. 2. In fact, the application in schools of the measures recommended in the diploma must necessarily be adjusted to the various situations and, in particular, to the age of children and adolescents. Directly linked to the need to define and adapt the measures to be taken, in particular according to age, is the role of the parents. It follows, however, that the decree sins by the almost total absence of this role of parents, those responsible for education, legal representatives and associations trained by them in the implementation of the legal regime, in particular in the definition and adaptation of the measures contained in the diploma to the different situations. 3. It is known that children and adolescents under the age of 16 have no autonomy to make certain decisions on their own, even requiring the authorization of parents or legal guardians to perform any medical act. However, the type of measures to be applied must be adapted to various ages, including the legal capacity to make decisions, and parents or legal guardians have an essential intervention. 4. But much more important is the fact that the measures provided for in this diploma apply to both 5 / 6-year-olds and adolescents 13 or 14-year-olds. And, in this plan, it is not only the abstract question of legal capacity that counts, it is that of psychosociological capacity and its conjugation with the role of parents, education officers or legal representatives. Being concerned such simple but so significant realities for day-to-day children and adolescents, such as activities to be carried out in school, clothing or access to bathing or bathing homes, dealing with 5 / 6-year-olds in the same way as with 13 / 14-year-olds, without even providing for the consultative participation, even non-binding, of parents or education officers in the definition of measures and their adequacy to each school situation, seems to be a theoretical volunteerism that risks, in practice, emptying the realization of the most generous ideal. It is also noted that one cannot forget today the multicultural nature of the school in Portugal and the cultural incidence of themes and situations such as the versadas. At the very least, an increased role of parents, education officials and legal representatives or their associations could introduce realism in a matter where it is hardly worth affirming principles that clash, by their abstract geometry, with people, families, schools, rather than conquer them for their cause. in this regard, I decided to return to the Assembly of the Republic, without promulgation, in accordance with Article 136. the, paragraph 1 of the Constitution, the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 127 / XV ( Establishs the legal framework for the issue of administrative measures to be adopted by schools for the implementation of Law No 38 / 2018 of 7 August, and proceeds to its amendment ). I present to you my respectful compliments. The President of the Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Pause.]] I now turn to item 2 of our agenda, which consists in reading the message of the President of the Republic on the non-promulgation return of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 132 / XV — Amends the arrangements for the allocation of the name and of endorsements to birth and marriage seats, amending the Civil Register Code. I read: « His Excellency the President of the Assembly of the Republic, 1. This diploma tries, in its version of commitment, received for promulgation, to ensure a balance in respect of the essential principle of freedom of persons. 2. Thus, it happens in the non-imposition, but also not prohibition, of the parents indicate the sex of their minor descendants in their birth register. 3. Less achieved are, however, two other sensitive points in the view of the effective guarantee of people's freedom. On the one hand, the underlining given to the so-called “neutral name”, this name which is legitimate as the choice of parents, but should not prevent the option by non-neutral name if that is the will of those who had that decision. The same shall be said when the diploma in question allows a person who decides to change gender unilaterally to register this change in the marriage seat of that person or the birth seat of children, in particular minors, without the person with whom he or she is married being consulted or even informed, such as without the other parent or older child being able to pronounce or be informed. 4. These two points justify the return without promulgation in accordance with Article 136. the, paragraph 1 of the Constitution, of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 132 / XV, which amends the system of awarding the proper name and of endorsements to birth and marriage seats, amending the Civil Registry Code, so that in future the Assembly of the Republic may consider material that is relevant to the effective guarantee of the freedom of persons. I present to you my respectful compliments, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Pause.]] As there is no file, we turn to item three on the agenda on political declarations. To make the political statement on behalf of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : « Tremendous increase» was the way in which social communication, still a few days ago, was talking about bank profits— « Tremendous increase ». And it is enough to see, for example, the largest Portuguese banks — the main ones already presented their 2023 accounts — to understand what this « tremendous increase » means in practice. Santander Totta had a profit — profit — of EUR 1030 million in 2023, an increase of 70 % of its profits compared to the previous year, which had already been good. The New Bank had a profit of EUR 743 million in 2023, an increase of 83 % compared to the previous year. The BPI had an increase of EUR 524 million of its profits, an increase of 42 % compared to the previous year. There are three of the five largest banks, two still present their accounts of 2023. But the evidence shows that they all go in the same way: the General Deposit Box, in the last known numbers up to September last year, already showed a profit of EUR 987 million ; and the BCP ( Portuguese Commercial Bank ), in the same period until September last year, showed a profit of EUR 651 million. It is therefore expected that as a result of the activity of 2023, the Portuguese bank will have more than EUR 5000 million of profits, about 2 % of national GDP ( gross domestic product ), i.e. 2 % of national wealth of 2023. And we can ask: but is there any innovation that represents this dynamic, these extraordinary profits? Was there any increase in efficiency that explains why they now started winning so many banks in our country? Is there any creative idea that justifies why they rightly have the right to these profits? No, none of that. And even its social responsibility was smaller because, during the year 2023 — the year of the bank's extraordinary profits — these large banks cut off hundreds of jobs. So, what is the explanation for these numbers? How did these banks make so much money? The explanation is simple, called « financial margin ». What's this for who doesn't know about the bank? It's a very simple thing, it's the difference between the interest charged for the loans and the interest paid for the deposits. And then we started to realize that when the Portuguese bank actually pays much less for deposits than the European bank, it is part of the equation that is explained. The Portuguese bank pays 70 % — I will repeat: 70 % — below what, on the European average, the banks of other countries pay for deposits; it pays less for deposits. And now, for the charges, that is, for the loans, in particular the loans to housing? The bank is already charged more than the European average. That is why it is easy to see why the provision of housing credit has risen so much in Portugal. Banks will say « The blame is on the European Central Bank. » But they say the accounts that is the abuse, wear, of the national bank that caused the payment of benefits to the bank to rise 40, 5 %. For example, a loan of €150 000 to the bank for a period of 30 years had an increase in the last year and a half of €265 per month. And everything for what? For these extraordinary profits that the bank is presenting. It's abuse! It is an insult to the country and it is the wedding of millionaire bankers at the expense of the impoverishment of families, who have difficulty paying their housing credit. The question is what the State has done, what the Portuguese Government has done on this matter. Is the General Deposit Box, fully owned by the Portuguese State, different from the rest of the banks? The answer is « no, it is exactly the same », and here it proves not only the social insensitivity of the national bank but also the social insensitivity of the Socialist Party Government. Not by chance, PS, Arrival, PSD, Liberal Initiative rejected the Left Block proposal to tax these extraordinary profits from the bank and direct the result of this taxing to help the payment of credits to housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u3	I was wrong! You can't make proposals. You have to go to school!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u4	Arrived, Liberal Initiative, PSD and PS joined together to defend the bankers, joined together to defend the profits made at the expense of Portuguese families. But today we have a more direct, simpler proposal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u5	What's...?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u6	...and that's what we do the challenge to see who comes forward to defend people and attack the bank. Yesterday, Mariana Mortágua made the direct proposal to the PSD leader, Luís Montenegro. She said: «If we use the margin that the General Deposit Box has to lower the interest rate charged at 1, 5 percentage points, a credit of such €150,000 to 30 years may have a reduction in charges of € 1600 per year» — i.e. lower the family accounts, allowing savings in payment to the bank of € 1600 per year. This would also allow people to change to the Box if the other banks did not offer the same conditions. And what did the PSD say? « Oh, that will call into question banking activity! » And the very direct answer is: it is false. What this will call into question is this speculative financial margin of banks, which charge more than the European average for credits and pay less than the European average for deposits. Therefore, there is the courage to use the General Deposit Box to force the entire national bank to defend families. Have the courage to give 1600 € per month on average at such a difficult time in this country. This is the courage that goes, on March 10, to the polls and that people can choose, to tell who defends people and who defends bankers, as they did here, Liberal Initiative, PSD and PS. Now, the Left Block defends people against them all. I said.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u7	So, no one hits? Oh, no one's there!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u8	To make the political statement on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Sá Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u9	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This year we celebrate the 50 years of the conquest of freedom and democracy. One of the achievements of April is freedom of expression and manifestation; any citizen who disagrees with the options of the State has the right to publicly express his discontent. But another of April's achievements is the rule of law and everyone's submission to the law. The laws adopted by this Assembly of the Republic bind us all. Therefore, the rights of demonstration must be exercised in accordance with the law. We collectively build a country based on respect and solidarity for each other, where the problems of each one are the problems of everyone and where we know that collectively we have more strength to face the challenges and the problems. Portugal is today 7. the most peaceful country in the world, in 163 countries. In 2014 our country occupied 18. the place. It is the result of years of construction of a society based on mutual respect and mutual understanding. We know that, in order to be strong and cohesive, our community needs each one of us to feel respected and recognized. This is what we have been trying to do since 2015, respecting the inspectors of the PJ ( Judicial Police ), the PSP ( Public Security Police ) and the GNR ( Republican National Guard ).
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u10	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u11	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u12	With respect to PSP agents and GNR military, the remuneration budget increased between 2015 and 2024 by more than EUR 426 million,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u13	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u14	...and I'm going to give two examples. First example: an early career guard in 2015 had a gross salary of 1117 € ; in 2024, he took 1453 €,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u15	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u16	... an increase of more than 275 €. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u17	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u18	An agent at the beginning of his career, in 2015, had a gross salary of about 1192 €; in 2024, he took 1457 €,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u19	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u20	... an increase of more than 275 €. In 2023, there was also an increase in two levels of remuneration for 1. the scale of the professionals of GNR and PSP instead of one, as happened in the other employees of the Public Administration. But we are not here and we are committed to increasing, on average, the salaries of these professionals between 2022 and 2026.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u22	Only last year has there been the promotion of 2000 elements of the PSP and the GNR, to which investment in infrastructure and equipment and the acquisition of houses for displaced persons, rehabilitation works and construction of new housing responses for these professionals, whose investment is already carried out amounts to more than 6 million euros. But we also respected the inspectors of the PJ: what was already foreseen in the organic law of the Judicial Police for 23 years has now been fulfilled. For 23 years the law has imposed the definition and regulation in its own diploma of the graduation of the risk supplement for PJ inspectors. As we all know, the criminal investigation career of the Judicial Police is of high degree of functional complexity, with specific and demanding access requirements. The PJ has reserved competence for the investigation of the most serious and complex crime, in accordance with the Criminal Investigation Organization Act. We recall that, in other criminal police bodies, functions with a similar degree of complexity are, as a rule, exercised by officers whose sum of all the allowances taken exceeds, in most cases, the value of the risk supplement that was previously assigned to the PJ. We are therefore aware of what we have done, of the increase in wages, of the increase in pensions, of the growth of our economy and of what we still have to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u24	The difference between who governs and who has never ruled is that who governs knows that he cannot promise everything to everyone, as he does who never had to decide,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u26	...because you want to have a relationship of trust and real trust with people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Responsibility is to tell people the truth and not deceive them with promises that they know are not concrete; promises that are made only by those who know that they will never have to make decisions or by those who do not appreciate the truth and respect for the word given. [[Congrats from PS Member Eurico Brilliant Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u27	Eurico, you're alone!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u28	With this we do not want to devalue the demands of PSP agents and GNR military, these claims that should be heard and weighed. In fact, they're being listened to and they're being weighed.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u29	Yeah, yeah...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u30	But we have a dissolved Parliament and a government in management, and a government in management cannot take on permanent charges to prevent the following management. And we therefore have some questions: what is the point of threatening and conditioning, at a time when we cannot decide what is intended to be decided, about a month of legislative elections, with the dissolved Parliament and the government in management? Who serves the spread of an image of social disorder and chaos on the streets at this very moment? We're right—but we're right! — that the vast majority of PSP and GNR military agents want to defend their rights, but with respect to the law. We therefore leave here an appeal to all of them not to let themselves be instrumentalized, so that they defend their rights in the right time and with respect to the Constitution and the law; the same Constitution and the same law that they defend, every day, in the exercise of their noble missions. The strategy of instrumentalization of security forces is known and the script was followed to the line in the United States and Brazil, as someone recalled:...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u31	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u32	... create and sow chaos to then demand order.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u33	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u34	These professionals are used exclusively for political use and to impose another country model, which sows fear and cultivates the use of force for social peace. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] And that's why, no, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot allow the agendas of some to question the brightness and professionalism of so many. Security forces deserve our deepest respect. One thing is the legitimate right to manifestation, another is behaviors that address constitutional values and essential duties of the security forces. In democracy, there are lines that can never be surpassed, and any democrat should stand out when some attack on the realization of democracy. Finally, Mr President, in a « whole Portugal » all are valued and respected. We want to continue this path, which we started in 2015, of sustained appreciation of all Public Administration careers, of respect for security forces, and we are available to negotiate and listen to the concerns of the representative entities of these professionals. As Manuel Alegre wrote, in our hands « begins freedom». With these hands, we will celebrate April and democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u35	Who is Manuel Alegre? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u36	To give the political statement on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Joaquim Miranda Sarmento has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Two days ago, in a debate of the legislative elections, the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party said, at some point, about the state and public services, with a certain height and arrogance: "But what doesn't work? » — an expression that can only result from a total alienation of reality and an easy electoralism. We could list how much, after eight years of PS government in Portugal, does not work or works badly; and it has not only been for the last eight years! of the last 28 years, the Socialist Party ruled in 21 and the PSD in 7, but always in financial emergency: left in 2002 by António Guterres and in 2011 by José Socrates. from health to education, as well as in transport, justice and defence, public services in general are in collapse, although Portuguese pay more and more taxes, taxes and taxes. Maximum taxes for minimum services, the impoverishment: the brand of the Government of Antonio Costa and Pedro Nuno Santos. But what doesn't work? », we could almost say that if there is something that works is the bias of the Socialist Government in charging taxes to families and businesses. [[PSD applause.]] Adding to this chaos in public services, we have several sectors of society on the street, in protest, in conflict, with farmers blocking communication routes and security forces in demonstrations — farmers who are victims of this government's irresponsible policy and the incompetence of this Minister for Agriculture. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what happens in the security forces is very serious; it can neither be silenced nor ignored. There is a lack of State authority on the part of this government and the Socialist Party. The Government is the first and greatest responsible for this discontent of the security forces. On the one hand, for eight years, it has allowed the material, remuneration and authority conditions of the security forces to be degraded. On the other hand, inexplicably, it created a huge inequality with the increase in the mission supplement of the Judicial Police in the face of the situation of the PSP and the GNR — an error that did not explain and did not justify it. And, yes, the Prime Minister still has to explain why this differentiated treatment is in a decision that has not been passed by the Council of Ministers. If António Costa does not explain why this decision, then he will have to be Pedro Nuno Santos, as Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, the party that still supports this government, to clarify this measure. Another position of arrogance, silence and indifference of the Socialist Party! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the reaction of security forces to inequality is legitimate, but this unforgivable error of the government does not give security forces officials the right to violate the law, create indiscipline and cause a feeling of insecurity in the population. Much less it is acceptable to make boycott threats to the 10 March elections. In a rule of law, no one—no one! - is above the law. We all comply with the law and, above all, those who enforce the law must be the first to show that they comply. Security forces officers, who have as their primary task to comply with the law, to make it respect and ensure the safety of citizens, cannot lose their reason even when they are right about what they are demanding. There can be no threats and there must be good sense. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there can also be no extremist and populist political forces involved in this dissatisfaction of security forces by promoting chaos and demagogy. [[PSD applause.]] The safety of citizens is too important for them to play with fire.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u38	It's true! Zero votes!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u39	The Government and the Socialist Party have once again shown their governance matrix: irresponsibility in decisions that take, bad governance and bad public policy decisions, lack of reformist capacity, lack of courage in political action, lack of transparency and scrutiny; in short, lack of sense of state. [[PSD applause.]] Back to Pedro Nuno Santos' question: "But what doesn't work? Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u40	PSD! PSD doesn't work!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u41	A lot! But, first of all, the Socialist Government, that it was part of, that it is today the main face and that it wants to continue. If the Prime Minister and the Government no longer send anything, the Portuguese will be able to choose a new course for Portugal. We were able to recover the authority of the State, give conditions to the security forces and guarantee the safety of people and goods to the Portuguese. The Portuguese know that it is in the hands of each one the change, with a sense of responsibility, with ambition and with moderation. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u42	To give the political statement on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This should be the last Standing Committee before the elections on 10 March, and it is important to remember why we arrived here. We had a socialist government with an absolute majority, but it was never a credible government; cases and homes, messed up behind scams, with ministers and state secretaries leaving, many involved in cases of corruption, as was the case of the former State Secretary Miguel Alves, who disappeared, as by magic, 300 000 € of the City Hall of Way. It turns out that it was a weakened, long-term government that never gave guarantees of stability. And how did this government end? He ended up involved in a corruption debate, with the name of the Prime Minister involved and with the Chief of Staff with notes inside the books. Looks like everyone's forgotten, social communication's trying to bleach, but we're here to remember. Then came the corruption scheme in Madeira : autoarchs, President of the Regional Government, all of them involved in a web of promiscuity and corruption — proof that, in 50 years of democracy, it has always been involved in political powers where friendship, nepotism and corruption reign. PS and PSD are the same! We arrived at the elections and the PS tries to forget the past of Pedro Nuno Santos, who left the weakened government, without explaining the mess at TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ) or whether or not he knew about the termination agreement with the former administrator. Today, he is a socialist leader and speaks as if he had nothing to do with this government or with the past; he voted against the end of the tolls in the former SCUT (without cost for the user) inside and in the Algarve and, three months later, he presented a great measure in his electoral programme: pure demagogy! But I have a novelty: no one believes in the socialist promises, because Antonio Costa also said in 2015 that he ended the tolls on the Way of the Child, but they continue. In a television debate, Pedro Nuno Santos can ask, without laughing, "What's wrong in Portugal? Do not keep on seeking. ” Dear Pedro Nuno Santos: what's wrong? Ask the Portuguese people to go to the health centres at two and three o'clock in the morning to get a password for consultation; ask 1 million and 700 thousand Portuguese people who do not have a family doctor; ask the 4 million Portuguese that the socialist government has left at the threshold of poverty. Ask the Portuguese people who have to choose to put food on the table or fuel to go to work; ask the displaced teachers who have to sleep in cars, because they have no money to rent a house; ask the farmers who have invested and to whom production support has been cut and to whom the aids to combat drought have not yet arrived; ask our young people who are forced to emigrate to search for a better life; ask the justice officers who work in almost inhuman conditions and without career progression; ask the security forces abused and forgotten by successive governments; ask our elderly people who have worked a lifetime and who now receive 200 € or 300 €. So many questions we could ask. But Pedro Nuno Santos does not know the Real Country. Being a net shoemaker does not make it known to the common Portuguese, those who work, who struggle to survive without the party card, but with the will to change their future and improve their country. Regarding the security forces, the PS adopted the discourse of the extreme left. at a difficult time, at a time when men and women went out on the street to claim their rights, Minister José Luís Carneiro came to fire even more when he spoke in extremist movements that are part of the security forces. No, Mr Minister, they are not extremist movements, they are professionals who have been assigned to the Judicial Police the mission supplement, just as we have already said, but which would have to be attributed to all security forces. This government wanted to put cops on the police instead of solving the problems. Extremeism is what the PS does with lies behind lies, as we heard recently from Mrs Joana Sá Pereira. Mrs. Member, I have here a receipt of a PSP agent due from December 2023 : €1068! It is €1068 and not €1400 or €1600, as Mrs Deputy said here. I also have a GNR military salary of December 2023 : 962 €! It's $962! Say, once and for all, the truth to the Portuguese, something the Socialist Party is not capable of!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u44	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u45	It is still curious that in Lisbon 15 000 security forces professionals went to the street and in port there were 20,000, but the government remained silent. Here's what a football game was postponed for lack of police. Oh, a football! They played football! They can increase taxes and tolls, but don't touch football. The cops are extremists. Have you seen it? Oh, my God! You missed a football game! If it wasn't so serious, I'd laugh. José Luís Carneiro came here to accuse the police of acts of indiscipline and insubordination, i.e., the fire was starting to burn and the minister threw more thought into the fire. Later on, Antonio Costa came to say that it would be a great act of treason and serious treason to our democracy if the elections were to be missed. Acts of treason to democracy are what the Socialist Party has done in recent years. I have never seen the outrage of Minister José Luís Carneiro and Prime Minister António Costa when the police are attacked daily or when they are shot by minorities or in neighborhoods where they cannot enter. There was no treason or extremism there! Today the news is that many cops will be suspended, investigated, as if they were criminals. What country is this where criminals are treated as princes in our prisons because of human dignity, but nobody cares about the human dignity of security forces? Oh, my God! What was not in this government was ashamed to solve the problem of our security forces, our firefighters, justice officers, doctors and nurses or teachers. Portugal has to change and it will change on March 10th! The left will be absorbed by the extremism of the new PS and the right will have to be strong. The Azores gave a sign: only the Arrival has grown. Only arriving is essential for a right-wing government. The IL is doomed to irrelevance, whether to lie with everyone, but has no power to do so. He says it has nothing to do with who saved the bank. My dear Rui Rocha, who saved the bank were the taxpayers and it's time to help whoever needs it. It is this social insensitivity that makes IL irrelevant, because it does not know the Real Country. Luís Montenegro and PSD things don't work either.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u46	But we won!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u47	It was to Madeira and Miguel Albuquerque did not win with an absolute majority, being now involved in a shameful scandal of corruption, with Montenegro maintaining political confidence in someone who was no longer trustworthy; it was to the Azores and Bolliero did not win with an absolute majority, requiring the Arrival to govern or, then, has to turn himself over to the Socialist Party; then, he saw the CDS, his coalition partner, say that it enables a PS government, if the PS wins; and finally, he disappeared with the leader of the PPM, not inviting him to the presentation of the Electoral Programme. The people have already understood and on March 10 will vote in the Arrival. In the polls we've already exceeded 20%. We are those who know the real country, we are the voice of the workers, of the young people who want a future in our country, we are the common Portuguese. I shall end, Mr President, today which must be my last speech in this Legislative Session, addressing you: I regret that you have not been a President at the time of democracy that should prevail in this House. It was not free, it was not impartial, as it should have been, it cut the floor to several Members of the Arrival, when it should not have done so, and did not use the same criterion with other benches. He never undressed the socialist shirt and wore the PS parliamentary leader's shirt, this in addition to having protected deputies who systematically doubled their intervention time. I'm sorry, but we can't just walk around the chest talking about democracy and the 50 years of April, when we think that freedom is just a few. I regret that, for the first time in history, this House did not allow the election of a Vice-President of the Assembly of the Republic of the third party most voted by the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u48	For us never!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u49	It was disrespectful not to arrive, but to the 400 000 Portuguese who gave us their vote. The red lines, my friends, did not go to us, but, yes, to the Portuguese and they are the ones who, on the next day of March 10, will give that answer. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u50	To give a political statement on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Joana Cordeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For a future Portugal, on the Liberal Initiative, we want Portugal to grow, Portugal to function and Portugal to be more liberal. We want to unlock the country's potential with measures that simplify people's lives, decentralize power and contribute to disbursing the economy and the state. at the same time, we want to increase freedom of choice so that the competitiveness gives the Portuguese better public services, with higher quality and the lowest cost.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u53	For Portugal to grow, the State must let the market function and fully fulfil its role as regulator. For Portugal to function, the State must guarantee public services to all, without having to prevent the rest of the society from providing them. In fact, we have said it many times here, but I repeat: services do not cease to be public if they are provided by private people. For a more liberal Portugal, the State must perform the functions of sovereignty with quality and efficiency, ensure the regular functioning of the institutions, with information, transparency and scrutiny. « But what doesn’t work? « Question Pedro Nuno Santos. The disqualification is in sight. Public services are failing. And Pedro Nuno Santos asks: "What doesn't work? Do not keep on seeking. ” In health, today we have more than 1 million and 700 000 people without a family doctor, we have people in the morning at the door of health centres to get a password for a consultation, we have pregnant women today who do not know where their children will be going. And Pedro Nuno Santos asks: "What doesn't work? Do not keep on seeking. ” In education, we have schools without teachers and without conditions, we have late learning, we have free day care centers, but without breaks. And Pedro Nuno Santos asks: "What doesn't work? Do not keep on seeking. ” In the housing, much less houses are built and the promise of all people to have a decent home in 2024 failed. And Pedro Nuno Santos asks: "What doesn't work? Do not keep on seeking. ” And the promise to retain talent in Portugal, preventing the better-prepared generation from ever leaving abroad? Today, 30 % of young people born in Portugal live outside the country, i.e. one in every three. What about the promise to reduce the tax burden? For, this has always increased and Portugal is today the fourth country in the European Union where taxpayers' tax effort is greater. Never spent so much on such bad public services. And Pedro Nuno Santos asks: "What doesn't work? Do not keep on seeking. ” Every week there are professionals on the street in protest. They are farmers, police, firemen, doctors, nurses, teachers, and Pedro Nuno Santos asks: what doesn't work? All this as if the Socialist Party had not been in power for 21 of the last 28 years, as if the Socialist Party in the last two years had not had an absolute majority in the Assembly of the Republic, which ultimately did not serve anything. Two more years of lost time for all of us! Two more years to step! Two more years to push all problems with the belly, which is a sort of identity of António Costa, the ruler who has always escaped from all reforms. The more the country needed them, the more Antonio Costa made it clear that he did not want to do any and, therefore, he left a stagnant country, a deferred country, where there are more and more people losing hope. Those who come after solving the problems, and so many have to be solved. « What doesn’t work? Peter Nuno Santos asked. Because the question should have been asked the contrary. What Pedro Nuno Santos should have asked was: after all, what did the Socialist Party make work? Because it was easier to find the answer: nothing! We are talking about the areas that Pedro Nuno Santos has guarded: in the housing area, I have mentioned here, it has been a total failure; in the question of the airport, there have been so many scams that he has been disallowed by the Prime Minister; in the management of the TAP, with the future of the firm still uncertain and after the government has already defended everything and its opposite, the only certainty that there have been expenditure 3200 million euros of the taxpayers, without any prospect of return of that value; in the railway, let us be fair, Pedro Nuno Santos can show work, because when he left the functions of Minister, the railway network had more than one kilometre than when he entered. Another rather emblematic proof that the Socialist Party leaves the country stagnant. So, yes, we need to change and, yes, we need to get back the wasted time. That is why we work on the Liberal Initiative. We want a country where economic growth is a reality. We want a country with less taxes and more money in the Portuguese pocket and more liquidity in companies so they can make investments and create jobs. We want a country with less bureaucracy, in which it is easier to open a business, build a house or have an initiative in so many other areas. We want a country with greater simplification of processes, with efficient justice and ability to attract foreign capital. We want a country in which the State is part of the solution rather than the problem. While others talk about the minimum wage, we point to the average wage and we want the Portuguese in the next legislature to have an average net salary of 1500 €. In health, we want more choice and less hope, we defend the new health system that integrates the public and the private, we want a waiting list reduction program and we guarantee a family doctor to all, with priority for pregnant women, children and the elderly. In education, we propose an emergency program for the recovery of learning, with the use of teachers already reformed, who can accumulate wages and pensions. In the housing, we provide for 250 000 new houses, built or ready to build, and we want to reduce VAT (value added tax) of the construction to the minimum rate. Housing is an essential good and therefore cannot be taxed as a luxury good. In justice, we propose a drastic reduction in the average times of decisions of 1. the instance in administrative courts, through the increasing recourse to arbitration. These are just a few examples of the proposals that the Liberal Initiative advocates. The Liberal Initiative refuses to believe that Portugal is doomed to stagnation and mediocrity and the Portuguese do not have to comply either. The Portuguese deserve to have hope again and there is hope that Portugal will choose a more liberal path. For a future Portugal, the solution is the Liberal Initiative. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u54	For a political statement on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This country really needs to change policy. We heard that longing everywhere. When life gets complicated, when injustices get worse, we hear that requirement — changing politics! But not everyone really wants to change policy, because there are those who are being greatly benefited from this situation. They are those who earn 12 million a day at the cost of benefits and interest borne by families or economic groups that amount to 25 million profits a day. Changing policy is a necessity for the overwhelming majority of the working population, who lives through their efforts, who needs public services in conditions, for those who have worked their entire lives and do not have a reform to live, for the hundreds of thousands of children at risk of poverty in Portugal, but it is not a need for the richest 5% that concentrate on their hands 42% of all national wealth. For these, right-wing policy is good for them. It comes from where it comes from, a PS without hindrance, as one of its deputies called it, or by the hand of the PSD, the CDS, the Liberal Initiative or the Arrival, as long as it continues in the same. They say that everything must change so that everything is as it is, you know the owners of all this, and that is why they started to finance and promote new protagonists to practice the same right-wing policy. They bet on new faces, new representatives for their interests, ensuring that everything will remain and everything will remain in it. The top one goes up and the bottom one goes down! A minority with everything and a majority with almost nothing! This explains that in the most difficult years for the Portuguese people, record profits are announced. The country does not need more right-wing politics of pink or orange, more familiar or stricter; the country needs a true safan who rests justice in our lives, needs real changes, needs a policy that solves problems, and that is in the hands of most people who fight for a dignified life every day. Workers in companies and workplaces throughout the country struggle for the increase of their wages, against the precariousness and deregulation of their schedules, for their rights. Thousands leave the street for the right to have a roof, for the basic right to have a house to live. The rental law at the service of market liberalisation raises prices and clears families. The PS could have repealed the law of the PSD government / CDS, but he wanted to keep it. The PS could have put a brake on the increase in income this year, as proposed by the PCP. You chose not to. to the PS and parties on their right is more than it unites them than it separates them. Also in favour of banks, with interest rates increasing benefits in hundreds of euros, PS, PSD, Arrival and Liberal Initiative had the opportunity to vote on the PCP proposal to sacrifice profits, but they preferred to sacrifice families. The National Health Service strives to continue to care for the population, while the government uses half the health budget to deliver to the private groups of the disease. It is EUR 8 billion that needed to dignify careers of doctors, nurses, technicians and assistants, to pay conditionally. But the strategy is to allow it to degrade, so that it will gain the strength of the privatization of health. What explains, after all, that the SNS (National Health Service) only pays about €6, €7 or €8 per hour to a nurse, for example, at the same time that they are being hired jobs, exactly for the same service, for €16 per hour. Farmers remain crushed: crushed by the common agricultural policy and the dictatorship of large distribution. It is not enough to pay what is missing, it is necessary to create conditions for it to be worth producing, for fair prices to be paid. It is not to concentrate 80 % of support in the agribusiness and to continue subservience to large distribution. They gain less from producers and pay more from consumers, who are getting less and less from the shopping bag. Security forces have not been properly considered for years in their requirements. Requirements for a decent wage, real recognition and compensation of the risk to which they are exposed. Even at the end of last year, when the PCP here brought the increase in the risk supplement, they said there was no money, but they lied. There's, and it's not much. The Government entered the State budget from 2023 to 2024 with tax benefits for large economic groups amounting to EUR 1600 million. And here it is also important to ask: with so many problems, with so many people receiving little, so many abusive professional sectors, among them the police, why do we not hear the PSD, the Liberal Initiative or even the Reach to whisper about this scandal?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u56	You were distracted!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u57	It is because in this, my lords, they are all together, all on the same side, all dependents and all serving the same. Again in 2024 prices in telecommunications and mail were increased which were already the highest in Europe. And here is the practical demonstration of neoliberal fallacy: sectors fully liberalized, thanks to the privatizations of CTT ( Correios de Portugal ) and PT ( Portugal Telecom ), work of PSD / CDS and PS. When the CFP called into question these options, once again it was the chorus of right-wing policy in unison to defend the delivery of the strategic sectors to economic groups, however this would harm the service and the people. The country can't stand it anymore. They also cannot stand the professionals of justice, education, firefighters, the elderly, the young people who want to make their lives in this country. We will soon have an opportunity to change not only by face but by policy. Many have already realized that for profits to rise in this way it is necessary to maintain the policy of low wages. Someone is winning with that, but it is certainly not the workers, most of us. Many have already realized that destroying public services gives good reason to those who want to privatize them. Many have already realized that the promiscuity between economic power and political power reveals itself in these options that are taken. Many will cease to comply and work against the increasing injustices and inequalities between those who produce wealth and those who are appropriate and know that another policy is necessary to respond to the problems that persist and to the worsening of the structural deficits resulting from decades of right-wing policy, practiced by all these protagonists. In the face of increasing uncertainties and challenges in a country increasingly subject to interests that are not their own and economic models that do not serve it, it is time to use vote as a weapon to defend the values of justice and solidarity, give a clear message of change and actually build it, with more force to the CDU (Unitarian Democratic Coalition ). [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-02-07.u58	So we finish our third item on the agenda. The next meeting of the Standing Committee is scheduled for 13 March, consisting of the preparatory debate of the European Council on 21 March. I wish everyone a good afternoon. The meeting is closed. [[It was 15 hours and 54 minutes.]]
