ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late for everyone. Let's start our work. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the gallery to the public. Thank you very much. [[Pause.]] The first item on our agenda is a preparatory debate by the European Council under Article 4 ( 1 ( a ). that of the law of monitoring, evaluation and pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the process of building the European Union, a preparatory debate was held by the European Council. To open the debate, on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for European Affairs, Mr. Tiago Antunes.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. The last European Council, which we discussed here on 14 and 15 December, was marked by a great advance and a great impasse. The big advance was the decision... don't you hear? Aren't you listening? Is that better? All right. Then I can talk about sitting down. Is that better?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u3	Unfortunately, Mr Secretary of State, the Rules of Procedure do not allow him to speak in plenary sessions, so he must do his best to stand up. You can come here to the rostrum, if you do the favor, with all care, since the stairway is very slippery, and we do not want the government to fall before the scheduled time. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President, I believe that the sound conditions are already in place. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I was saying that the last European Council was marked by a great advance and a great impasse. The great advance was the decision to open negotiations with Ukraine and Moldova as well as the decision to award the status of the candidate country to Georgia. However, there was a great impasse concerning the mid-term review of the Plurianual Financial Framework, in particular in this context, with the decision to allocate extraordinary funding to Ukraine in the amount of EUR 50 billion for the coming years. This midterm review of the Plurianual Financial Framework was one of the themes on the agenda of this December European Council, however, it was not possible to conclude it with the unanimous agreement of 27. There was, however, a firm agreement to 26 around this mid-term review of the Union's multiannual budget for the coming years, which, however, was not approved, given Hungary's blockade, a decision which has to be taken unanimously. I believe that it is appropriate to recapitulate what is contained in this agreement to 26 as regards the midterm review of the Plurianual Financial Framework, starting with what this agreement, or this revision, does not provide for. And it does not, of course, foresee three things — one of them is good news, the other two are news that we regret. The first good news is that it does not provide for any allocation, any modification, any cuts in national financial envelopes, particularly within the framework of the Common Agricultural Policy and Cohesion Policy. This is very good news, because this was Portugal's main point in the negotiations of this mid-term review, was our red line. Our main negotiating interest was that this review was not made at the cost or sacrifice of the financial envelopes allocated to each Member State, particularly within the framework of the Common Agricultural Policy and under the Cohesion Policy. That is absolutely guaranteed, therefore, that primary interest we had is assured. Unfortunately, this review does not include the creation of a European sovereignty fund, which has been proposed by the European Commission — last year as a compensation for the flexibility of State aid — the European Commission announced the creation of a European sovereignty fund, which, however, has failed to avenge — and this review does not show the creation of new Union own resources. In this respect there has been a proposal which the European Commission has come forward, but for which it has not yet been possible to reach consensus among the Member States, which we regret because we believe it is really essential to move forward in the creation of new Union own resources to finance the responsibilities that we have increasingly been allocating to the European Union ( EU ). What does this agreement provide for, then? It provides stable, predictable financial support for Ukraine in the total amount of EUR 50 billion for the coming years — EUR 33 billion in loans and EUR 17 billion in grants. It provides for increased funding on the subject of migration, which is essential, in particular in the context of the agreement reached, also at the end of last year, on the new pact for migration and asylum. It provides for a strengthening of funding for the Union's external action, in particular within the framework of the southern neighbourhood and within our relations with the Western Balkan countries. It provides, as an alternative to the so-called European Sovereignty Fund, for the creation of a platform for strategic technologies, however, very decapitalised in view of what was the Commission's original proposal and summarized practically already to invest in strategic defence sectors. It provides for a strengthening of funding to ensure the increase in interest rates that have occurred and also a strengthening of mechanisms for solidarity and emergency aid, particularly in the context of natural disasters and the multiplication of extreme weather events that have occurred as a result of climate change. Together, we have also discounted some reallocations of funds that have been made, we are faced with a package that provides for EUR 21 billion of additional fresh money compared to the one that was the multiannual financial framework originally approved in the context of the European Union to deal with a set of priorities that have arisen in the meantime, or with unnecessary developments that need a corresponding budget strengthening. These are subjects that have always had our support, insofar as there is indeed a set of priorities that have been reinforced since we closed the Plurianual Financial Framework and that they lacked this adjustment. However, as is known, and as I began to point out, there was a Member State, Hungary, which opposed this review of the Plurianual Financial Framework, in particular with regard to support for Ukraine, and also questioning the mechanism found for the payment of interest added. therefore the need for an extraordinary additional European Council, which will take place next week on 1 February, which has a very focused agenda and which is intended essentially to overcome the blockade on this subject, which was to be resolved by the last European Council. There is a firm understanding among the 26 that the terms of the agreement that was found in 26 on the mid-term review of the Plurianual Financial Framework will not be reopened, so this agreement is closed and will not be reopened. However, it will seek to find solutions that allow Hungary now to make it possible, therefore, an agreement finally at 27, which was not possible to find in December. Hungary has been saying that it believes that it is possible to find a solution to 27, however, to this day there is not yet a closed understanding as to the terms of that agreement. Finally, I should like to say that if it is not possible — as it is desirable — to find a unanimous understanding within the European Council, there will surely be a solution to 26 which will enable Ukraine to provide much-needed financial support. So this is the guarantee I want to leave you, gentlemen. Members, with the assurance that whatever the outcome of the European Council next week, support for Ukraine is unquestionable and will not be called into question. It will certainly be a solution, preferably 27, but 26, to ensure that Ukraine is not alone, handed over to itself, and that it will continue to have the support it deserves and that it has been constantly affirmed by the Portuguese Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u5	To put questions on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rosário Gambôa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, we are indeed living very difficult times, where uncertainty reigns, and when uncertainty reigns, security and defence issues end up having a prominent place — not only security and defence, but the necessary conditions, their costs, to have good security and good defence. We are referring to some of the points that Mr. Secretary of State has just listed, and even if we can and will express our sympathy with the successive positions of the Portuguese Government, there are some concerns regarding Mr. Secretary of State's speech that it is inevitable that we should place. Indeed, following the development of Russia's recent war of aggression against Ukraine and the necessary continuation of the European Union's support for Ukraine and its people, we have successively here to mix with this already difficult situation, the emergence of war in the Middle East, an emergency where, after so many attacks on international law, a pilgrimage island destined for the Palestinians has become equated, which is certainly not the position of the European Union. But when we talk about consequences in defence, we also talk about the enlargement of the EU and the budget necessary for all this. Now, as the Secretary of State has said, at the meeting of the European Council of 15 and 16 there was once again an incident in the room — an incident that has to do with unanimity. Hungary, with regard to Ukraine's accession, made that fantastic exit from the room, which is something that greatly honors the way we are and we conclude positions, and then, with regard to the necessary support for the war in Ukraine — because there are not enough proclamations, it is necessary that the war in Ukraine be won,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u8	...and this is a European project—in this sequence, Hungary once again boycotted. That is, the unanimity rule is becoming a blocking power for many EU decisions. I recall, as the Secretary of State has just mentioned, that not only the necessary support for the war in Ukraine, but also funds relating to migration, the solidarity fund, as well as interest payments related to the European Union's recovery instruments. Now, here, I would like to draw our attention to something that concerns us: the architecture of the European Union is a unique, rich, versatile, plastic architecture and has been this architecture that has allowed us to reach here, with this plasticity, in a rule of progressive consensus, which is being extended and which has allowed Europe to consolidate itself in a very sui generis way, in its own institutional architecture; but also, at the same time, as I have mentioned earlier, this progressive consensus has presented some erosion—erosion because the consensus reached is thus already diluted, which does not respect what was the dominant position within the Member States. The second question is that this blockade is exercised under the sign of blackmail, and the sign of blackmail is not exactly something we can accept. Mr Secretary of State, the concern I leave here today is just one: the commitments which today bring us, such as enlargement, cohesion funds and funding, this policy that will be reviewed, put on the table the revision of treaties. The revision of the treaties at this time is no longer that interesting and voluntary thing that the Conference on the Future of Europe brought. The revision of treaties begins to show a great predominance, not only because of enlargement, but also because of the successive blockades we are experiencing, asking whether this is the way in which Europe can continue to face future challenges, not only with regard to foreign policy, security and defence policy, but also with regard to the necessary financing for crisis situations and situations that have to do with what our common life is and the projects we have for the future. So, Mr Secretary of State, my question is this: how does the Secretary of State understand this blockade, the review of treaties, the necessary conciliation, balance and prudence so that this is done with some care? Some guides have to be placed on the table. How does the Secretary of State see this issue? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u9	In reply, the Government has the floor of Mr. Secretary of State for European Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Rosário Gambôa, thank you very much for the questions you have asked me. In fact, a constant of the last few months — I would say almost the last two years — has been the need to ensure support for Ukraine in the face of the situation after the invasion and military attack by the Russian Federation. This support for Ukraine has manifested itself in many ways and has been systematically reaffirmed and strengthened by the European Union and bilaterally also in the relationship between Ukraine and the various Member States that make up the Union, in particular in our case Portugal. The dimensions are multiple: in the first phase, the essentially humanitarian dimension and reception of refugees who have fled the conflict; of course, diplomatic support and political support; but also, with great importance, financial support for the most pressing needs of the day, for maintaining the functioning of the Ukrainian State, and military support for Ukraine to continue to ensure its legitimate defence in the face of this aggression. That is also what has been at stake now, recently, in these discussions. In the framework of the discussion on the mid-term review of the Plurianual Financial Framework, which started in December and will continue at the next European Council next week, it is precisely to find a stable, predictable mechanism to ensure financial aid to Ukraine. Last year it was possible by means of a set of loans in the context of macro-financial support to Ukraine to provide support of EUR 18 billion, but a more stable solution needs to be found, and that is what the Commission has proposed around EUR 50 billion. I sincerely hope that next week we can find such an agreement to 27 which will fit this financial aid into what is the budget of the Union, with its rules, with its institutions, with its monitoring and monitoring mechanisms, etc. because it would be the best way to guarantee this continued support to Ukraine, especially when we see that, from other latitudes, this support is beginning to be called into question, delayed or difficult. The European Union cannot fail in this dimension and it will certainly not fail. That is why I say that if it is not possible to find a solution within the framework of the Union — a truly European solution, 27 — there will certainly be a solution that brings together the 26 Member States that are in agreement, that will guarantee that support and that will not call into question the financial support to Ukraine over the next few years, and that guarantee is very important if it is given. In addition, military support is also essential, and it is a dimension that has been under discussion and that will, in particular, be on the agenda of the next informal Council on Foreign Affairs and Defence, which will take place next week. On this basis, I believe that it will be possible to take some important decisions, which may also eventually end up on the agenda of the European Council on 1 February, so that either through the bilateral contributions of the various countries forming the European Union, or through truly European mechanisms, as has been the case so far of the European Peace Support Mechanism, will continue to ensure that Ukraine has the necessary conditions to ensure its legitimate defence. Then, of course, there are other dimensions. As is known, Russian aggression has turned everything into weapons: it has used energy, with attacks on the Ukrainian energy system; it has used the typical cold of winter to cause suffering to the Ukrainian people, too; and it has used the food and the drain of cereals, which are the main agricultural production of Ukrainian. All of this has been turned into weapons in this conflict, and at all this the European Union has been able to respond, in addition to the size of support for Ukraine, with a successive set of sanctions packages to the aggressor—in this case. Let's get to the 12th. the package of sanctions, and I believe that until the second anniversary of the invasion, until 24 February, it will be possible to come to pass a 13. the sanctions package to Russia. All of these are very important elements, which are, of course, added to the discussion that has been taking place around enlargement and a future accession not only from Ukraine but also from other candidate countries to the east and the Balkans. As we have often discussed here, in fact, the issue of enlargement and accession has been gaining a new momentum and a new speed, and it is something that, for geopolitical reasons, inter alia, is necessary and must be prepared in joint work with the candidate countries. For this reason, shortly after Ukraine's application for membership, Portugal offered technical assistance in preparing its accession process to the European Union, and we have been working with Ukraine in this area as well as with other candidate countries. Therefore, either in terms of the size of support for candidate countries to meet the criteria that allow them to come to access, either in terms of the European Union's own preparation and how it operates — its budget, its institutional rules and policies — so that we can work, one day, not to 27, but to 30 and anything else, this is also a very important discussion that is under way, always with a very strong message as a background, which is that we will not leave Ukraine alone in the difficult situation that has been going on. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u11	To put questions, I now have the floor of Mr Paulo Moniz of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, our meeting today is of particular importance because, indeed, the extraordinary European Council of 1 February will seek to resolve what should have been resolved in December. We are at a crucial moment of war in Ukraine, with a daily escalation, growing, with heavy casualties on the Ukrainian front that defends the country, and we see a Europe that is not united and that is able to use subterfuges such as leaving the room so that we can have decisions that concern all Member States. We have seen the European Parliament discussing this extraordinary Council on 1 February, and there was also a two-point resolution, which I would like to highlight: firstly, that of not giving in to the blackmails which Hungary somehow makes; and secondly, that of some discomfort with the fact that the Commission has transferred some money from European funds to Hungary, although it has retained EUR 20 billion. And the first question that I would like to clarify is this: if on 1 February there are no conditions for a 27 decision, unanimously the Portuguese Government will be, in its opinion and in the way it will express its position, willing to open a procedure under Article 7. in order to prevent Hungary from having the right to vote, in violation of the fundamental and nuclear aspects of the Union, what is respect for the rule of law and the principle of solidarity, and also the defence of the values of freedom, which is currently being waged on our behalf by the Ukrainians? We would like to know what the position of force is and to what extent the Portuguese State is committed to a decision at this level. I would also like to hear about another issue, which deals with the EUR 50 billion in the support package for Ukraine at the moment. There is the circumstance — which, moreover, the Secretary of State has already gone through — that we do not want this to be a circumstantial support and to see how it can be extended over time, which is foreseeable, because for all that is to be done in the defence of Ukraine and Europe, these 50 billion will surely have to be strengthened. Here comes the second question, about this part, which I would like to ask you. We are very afraid that when we hear about strengthening the Union's own resources, this can mean more taxes for European citizens. And the question I ask you is: are these additional own resources, this budgetary reinforcement, where are they from? Where do you come from? Are there more taxes on European citizens or any other tax mechanisms to increase revenue? The second part of my speech is a reflection that is related to the time and the moment in which we live. We must be aware that if we lose our eastern border — that is, in other words, if the Russian Federation wins the war and conquers Ukraine — we lose the defense of our eastern border. And we are convinced that Putin's intention is to pursue this incursion; moreover, if in 2014 Crimea had not been annexed, with the passivity of the Western world and of the civilized world, perhaps this adventure would not have happened on 24 February. Mr Chancellor German, Olaf Scholz, has already given a great warning: Europe has to prepare itself finely, it has to have a defence industry, it has to produce weapons. Minister João Gomes Cravinho said that we will fail to deliver 1 million ammunition to Ukraine in March. This is dramatic! Many European countries only have war reserves to maintain a battle for half a dozen days. Europe is no longer fully prepared, and Mr Chancellor German, reinforced by the German Minister for Defence, has said that now is the time for Europe to strengthen itself by its own defence industry, until the global geopolitical framework has changed. The United States has difficulty speaking with one voice and joining Europe in aid to Ukraine, as we are seeing now, regardless of who the next American President is ; Europe, with these indecisions that Hungary is leading within the 27th century, is a Europe that is weak, not cohesive ; and we walk to a scenario that in everything reminds us of the fateful years 36 to 39th century. Today we must be aware that we must prepare ourselves seriously for war in order to achieve peace, because, if we fail, we will surely, beyond the eastern border, have a change from those of the Axis countries. And this change will pass through Moscow, Tehran, Pionguiangue, Beijing and perhaps possibly Caracas, and this new order is the greatest attack on the values of our European Union, on the values we believe in and on our future. Today, and in this extraordinary European Council of 1 February, that is what we are going to be dealing with. I believe that there has been no precise awareness that we are at a time and in a world war framework that can precede what we have already lived twice in the past century. On this subject, Mr Chancellor German asked the Commission to lead a relationship with all the countries of the Union to provide an effective list of military contributions at the next meeting on 1 February so that it could assess what is in 2024 the concrete military aid to Ukraine. The question I ask you is did Portugal respond to this challenge? Did you make this list? Take this list? And if you do, tell us what the real contribution Portugal will make in aid to Ukraine. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u13	To reply on behalf of the Government, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u14	Mr President, Mr. Paulo Moniz, raises the question of what will happen if a unanimous solution is not found next February 1st. As I have already had the opportunity to mention in my initial speech, I believe that we can make sure that there will be a solution to continue ensuring financial support for Ukraine, ideally unanimously at 27, but, if not possible, among the 26 who have already agreed to that solution. Then, in this context, he asked: but then, if Hungary maintained its veto, its blockade, a procedure under Article 7 should be opened. or against Hungary? As to this, Mr, what I can tell you is that there is already an open procedure under Article 7. the fact that on the initiative of the European Parliament, on behalf of Hungary, Mr Rui Tavares knows well because he was involved in this matter when he was a Euro MP, who has been running his terms. In any case, I would say that we must not mix the two things in the sense that the procedure of Article 7. it is not, nor should it be, a revenge for the lack of agreement of a particular Member State in respect of a particular matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u15	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u16	As we do not appreciate that certain Member States use the veto power they have in some matters as a blackmail weapon to obtain gains or benefits in other different matters, we should also not manipulate or use such a sensitive and as important procedure as Article 7. as a blackmail weapon, shot or revenge because no agreement has been found on another subject. They are, therefore, two different subjects, but both very important. One of the issues is the absolutely imperative need to find an agreement to ensure financial support for Ukraine — we hope that Hungary will join the consensus that already exists in 26, and it is very important that it will do so ; another issue is the equally important need to respect the rule of law within the framework of the European Union and those Member States which may not do so, possibly, be punished under the sanctions mechanism provided for in the Treaties, which is Article 7. o. Such analysis and verification shall necessarily take place in accordance with Article 7. the other mechanisms that exist to safeguard the rule of law within the framework of the European Union. Article 7. it is not the only mechanism: there is a conditionality mechanism, under which, in fact, there are currently a number of frozen funds for Ukraine, precisely for matters relating to the rule of law, etc. Next, as regards the need to ensure that 50 billion give Ukraine a prospect of security and stability in the medium term, these 50 billion are calculated for the time horizon from 2024 to 2027. In any case, we must, of course, continue to assess the situation on the ground and, at a later stage, at a phase of reconstruction of Ukraine, the values that will be concerned will certainly be of another magnitude. But finally, the needs will have to be evaluated and, if there are added needs, we will see how they respond to them. Surely the European Union must assume its responsibilities, but it must also not be alone, and there are other international partners who must also contribute to this common effort. As regards the issue of own resources which you have raised, we believe that it is quite obvious today that it is necessary to move forward with the creation of new Union own resources, i.e. new sources of direct funding from the Union. Why? Because we have come to demand more and more things from the European Union. In the face of each new challenge, each new problem we will see - for the European Union - and indeed well - looking for solutions, and we have come to assign increasing responsibilities to the European Union, some of them even in areas which were not evident under the Treaties, which were the responsibility of the European Union. We cannot expect that, in order to respond to more and more challenges, the European Union will always do so with the same sources of funding. In the face of the refusal of many Member States to increase their national contributions to the budget of the European Union, as it is known, the only square of the possible circle seems to me - in fact, to strengthen the direct sources of financing of the European Union, that is, the Union's own resources. However, it is not a question of creating new taxes on European citizens; at the moment, the three hypotheses of new own resources that are on the table — but we can always consider others, so imagination brings us other solutions to be able to discuss — on a proposal from the Commission, relate to a number of issues, such as the sources arising from the operation of the European carbon market, which has been extending its scope. So it is about charging a price for carbon emissions, and that is what is at stake. There is another mechanism that also has to do with carbon emissions, but with respect to products imported from outside the European Union. It is a carbon-adjustment mechanism at the border and is therefore basically a customs duty on imports from outside the European Union. Then there is a third mechanism, which is a statistical mechanism, calculated on the basis of company revenue. No, it is not, therefore, new taxes on European citizens. As regards the need for the European Union to strengthen the conditions of its own security and defence in the future, I have no doubt that this strengthening of the security and defence dimension within the framework of the European Union will be a major challenge for the next European political cycle, which will result from the forthcoming European elections. in an international context characterized by increasing instability, increasingly hostile powers and a very adverse geopolitical situation — above all, if a scenario is confirmed, following the American presidential elections, with a lower American commitment to NATO (North Atlantic Treaty Organization ) — surely the European Union will have to strengthen this dimension and the conditions by which it will ensure its strategic autonomy, also in the context of defence in the face of external threats.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u17	Mr. Secretary of State, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u18	Finally, as regards our military contributions to Ukraine, they are known and have been systematically made a public report of this constant military support. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u19	To put questions to the Government, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European Union, Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u20	Mr. President of a few benches, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, when I hear these interventions by the Socialist Party as a government at home and then when I see some attitudes by the Socialist Party in external relations, I always remember by Ivone Silva and by « Olivia Patroa, Olivia Costureira », when, on that long night of fascism, he felt bad to wake up from the CDS when he had resigned from the CDU (Unitarian Democratic Coalition ) — in this case, from the PCP. We have seen here the issue of the anti-Hungary procedure, and one of the issues that arises is the fact that Hungary is not a fully-fledged State, because it has great interference in the media. But then we look at the debate over the past few weeks and we see the whole left claim that there must be interference by the Portuguese Government in supporting the media bodies, limiting what freedom of the press would be. Mr. Secretary of State, I would like to ask you a very direct question. Mr. Secretary of State came here with a whole rhetoric and made the claim that Hungary had this behavior for a blackmail logic. But I wanted to go further, go up to the issue, and ask whether or not it considers that blackmail began because it was made by the European Union itself, when it kept EUR 10 billion in Hungary and did not want to pay it.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u21	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u22	I wonder if the question comes or doesn't come back. We put here the question as if it were merely related to Mr. Viktor Orbán, but then we also realize that, throughout this year, the position of Portugal out there is one and, when it comes in here, it is another, everything strongly against Hungary. But we all attended the football game where Mr. Prime Minister, now a resignation, was next to Viktor Orbán — in fact, sitting even further to the right, but it was only a question of positioning the chair. So this is one of the issues. Then we try to realize the importance of this open strategic autonomy that they now come to talk about. As for the issue of open strategic autonomy, we feel the concern, which we have already raised at various meetings, about what they are doing with China, which does not respect human rights. But we still feel a lot of concern when they talk about all those who then support Russia, even though they say no internally. You are desperate to praise in Europe, without any protective measures for European companies, a pact with Mercosur ( Southern Common Market ). This will enable the entry into the market of countries such as the one led by Lula da Silva, who is an unequivocal supporter of Russia. Venezuela is now out, but sooner or later it will be back in Mercosur. We continue with a big problem: to have competitiveness in a cheap and low-quality labour market with Portugal, including being able to be the gateway to these products, without any protectionist measures for the European market being safeguarded. This can, of course, enable European companies to have to lower wages, to increase the flow of cheap labour and to allow exploitation of those which have been exploited throughout Europe. You say it is a human issue; we say it is, yes, a human issue that does not treat them as they are being treated. We have also talked about the issue of defence. In fact, it is a pride for Portugal: the largest mission currently under way has 37 Portuguese military troops. Repeat : 37. For years we have not been able to meet the 2% of GDP that should be invested in defence. We have poorly paid military; we have scrap metal inside the barracks; there is no investment here. We went out there, open-breasted, as « Olivia Patroa, Olivia Costureira », saying that we are, in a very acrecious way, defenders of these interventions, but then we send 37 soldiers. But even I ask you one more question: from the last meetings of the Defence Commission, we realized that our effectiveness, those that were even operational to intervene, if Portugal needed to make an intervention, would be less than 500. Can you always paint the figures in socialist fashion and say that Portugal sent 10 % of its national quota for this mission, but don't you think this is a shame? Do you not think it is a shame to come here with this history of support for Ukraine, without military terms, without weapons, without anything at all, when we are not even concerned about the Portuguese military, Portuguese police, security and national defence?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u24	And don't you think that this government, which is now on its way, the only thing you've done, has been to stain the burden of these men? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u25	To reply, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u26	Mr President, Mr Bruno Nunes, in his speech, referred to Hungary for a long time, but I did not hear him at some point regretting the blockade or impasse that Hungary caused at the last European Council in relation to the approval of EUR 50 billion in aid to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u27	All right! [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u28	With regard to this, Mr President, you are not agreed to say anything. Then ask me directly if I don't think it was the European Union that started blackmailing Hungary. Let me be absolutely clear: no, Mr, I do not think so. What the European Union has decided on funds for Hungary concerns the application of rules and regimes that are in force within the framework of respect for the rule of law and the protection of the Union's financial interests, and that has been done. This is not blackmail, it is a question of applying the disbursement of funds in accordance with the rules laid down for this disbursement, which is conditional on compliance with the rules relating to the rule of law, the fight against corruption, respect for public procurement and other financial rules of the European Union. Mr President, on defence, as you know, there is a multi-annual plan for convergence with the objective of the 2 % which has been scrupulously fulfilled in the terms in which it has been established for many years. Therefore, it is not worth imagining difficulties in this regard, too, because what is planned has been fulfilled, and the convergence plan with this objective is known to all and is being implemented. He then referred to open strategic autonomy. It invokes it as open, but then, by its words, anything less than open; it even wants it to be closed, because, with regard to the trade agreement with Mercosur, it is a priority for Portugal and it is a geostrategic priority for the European Union —... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... what you have to say is that you regret that no protectionist measures are guaranteed for the European market. So what you want is protectionism. Is that it? What you want is the European Union closed on itself. What you want is the « proudly alone».
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u29	No, it's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u30	Is that it, sir? That's what it looks like. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u31	You couldn't answer a question!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u32	To put questions to the Government, on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, I find it shocking the difference between the placidity with which this debate has been held here and the real horror and anguish that the Ukrainians suffer in their territory, under attack from the 1st day of the war until the 700th day of the war, which passes exactly today. In each of these 700 days there was risk, there was fear, there was terror, there were families destroyed. And there were, yesterday, more than 50 bombs and missiles that attacked cities far from the front line, such as Lviv, Kharkiv or Kiev. The provisional balance sheet is 18 dead and 130 injured, macabre statistics contributing to the even more macabre accumulation of more than 100 000 Ukrainians killed since the beginning of the war, including more than 20 000 civilians and more than 1500 children, and more than 150 000 injured, of which more than 25 000 civilians. And together with the Russian lows, which are difficult to estimate, but which have certainly exceeded the 300 000. This macabre balance will continue, until a decisive effort is made to end the war and defeat Putin. In view of this, what does the free world do? Hesita! Hesit in the United States, hesitates at Congress, hesitates in Europe and wraps himself at the European Council. That is what happened at the December meeting: there is a communiqué, with beautiful words, of political support, of diplomatic support to Ukraine, finally establishes the formal opening of the accession process, but then, as Mr Secretary of State said, agreement cannot be reached on financial support and even less on military support to Ukraine. Even what was nice and what was passed was only done because Chancellor Olaf Scholz convinced Mr Orbán to go to the bathroom, and thus the unanimity of those who were present was achieved. It must have been the most expensive relief of needs in history, because a few days later they were released 10, 2 billion euros of what was retained under the conditionality mechanism that Prime Minister Antonio Costa said should not apply to Hungary. But it was! It may have been a coincidence, but I don't think it was. Therefore, this meeting on 1 February is the second hypothesis of dealing with financial matters and it is important that the conclusions be clear and that no longer resort to files like those used in December. in this sense, I want to ask you very directly what the Portuguese Government will defend, what alternative to the December solution will defend. It shall invoke the emergency clause provided for in Article 15. that of the European Convention on Human Rights, which provides that, in the case of war and in the case of force majeure, the rules of operation and decision may be breached? Will you recommend the enhanced recovery mechanism to 26 rather than 27, passing control of Ukraine's support measures to the European Parliament and not to the Council? This has already been done about the European Public Prosecutor's Office, as you know, and has worked with a good reason. It will propose the acceleration of the process, which I have already said here that it has been opened in good time, in relation to Article 7 (2). that of the Treaty on European Union, for failure to respect human rights by Hungary, and thus withdraw its right to vote in this matter? Is it perhaps going to circumvent European rules by making European support not decided in the context of the European Union, but in the context of 26 bilateral agreements between each of the Member States directly with Ukraine? Or — perhaps this is the least humiliating way of resolving the issue — will it propose the extension of the deadlines for applying the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ), which is delayed in many European countries, including Portugal? the country has already requested the same extension, and this may satisfy Mr Orbán, without having to go to the bathroom again. The Ukrainians, in fact, deserve more: they deserve much more support, more solidarity, much more determination on the part of the free world and above all more clarity. That is what I ask you to do, Mr Secretary of State: of course, say exactly what the Portuguese Government is going to propose, because the Ukrainians deserve more. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u34	To reply, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u35	Mr President, Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, his initial words of shock to the situation in Ukraine and the absolutely dramatic situation that the Ukrainians have been living for almost two years, I share - I fully endorse them in all. It is not worth making a serious voice here to present itself as a champion of solidarity, or we will do here a championship of those who are most shocked with the situation in Ukraine, because I believe that, in this field,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u36	We're all here!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u37	...we're all,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u39	... or almost all, willing to share exactly that same basis of understanding. That is why I said, in my initial speech, that unfortunately at the December European Council it was not possible to find a unanimous 27 solution to ensure this stable and predictable financial support for Ukraine amounting to EUR 50 billion. That is why there will be this new European Council on 1 February to conclude this matter. But at the same time I also said that this European Council will come out of a solution for Ukraine, whether it is unanimous, which is ideal, it is 26, among those who have already supported this solution. The solution will exist! Therefore, the guarantee that we can give, as a Portuguese Government, is that, ideally, in a 27 solution — otherwise, in a 26 solution — we will be next to Ukraine, ensuring the support that Ukraine needs. at this moment, it is not yet clear what the final outcome of the European Council will be. Hungary, this time, contrary to what happened in the days prior to the December European Council, has given indications that it is seeking a solution that can also be understood as part of the table and has put some hypotheses on the table: some of them may seem viable to us, others may not. For example, one of the issues which Hungary has raised concerns the approval of EUR 50 billion, but according to the annual review mechanism. We can live with this solution, if this annual review is decided by a qualified majority; we cannot live with that solution, if it is a way of multiplying the veto hypotheses and a repetition of the scene that we saw in December. Another issue that Hungary has put on the table is an extension of the RPP application period for another two years, beyond 2026. As is known, the Portuguese State has already defended this position in the past. It did not do so because of any delay, but it has already defended this solution in the past, so, of course, this is a solution with which we could live well, although it is known that it has very strong objections from other Member States. I repeat, it is ideal for a 27 solution, even for another reason: that the 26 solutions are more time-consuming, implies parliamentary ratifications in many Member States, which will probably mean that the realisation of financial support for Ukraine will end in time. Therefore, it would be beneficial or preferential a 27 solution — that is where we are working. The day we are today, I don't know what the solution will be yet, but I am confident it will be possible. In any case, I believe that the most important thing is my initial point: whether this is the way, or on the other hand, we will certainly not let Ukraine fall, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u40	To put questions to the Government, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : When the current Plurianual Financial Framework, now in force, began to be discussed in the institutions of the European Union, the European Commission presented a framework report on this discussion, in which this chart could be found. The speaker displayed the chart he referred to. This graph, which has been presented by the European Commission itself, shows the benefits of integration of the single market, due to income gains in billions of euros. Without any surprise, Germany is here at the top, and we, Portugal, are here in the group of the least won, of the latter, to deepen the inequalities in this European Union. This chart is an irrefutable and enlightening evidence of this reality, which has been worsening over decades in the Community frameworks. We never had any news of having been reviewed or updated this comparative analysis, we never saw a chart like this again. by the way, it's a danger that you know and that you see something like this. So the first question we are asking is whether the Government has put this question on this approach by the countries benefiting from the single market in the context of the debate on the review of the multiannual financial framework, because this is what we are talking about and not less than that, although it does not seem. The Community budget, the multiannual financial framework, with the redistributive role it should have, would serve to counteract these inequalities. But the question is, is that what's happening? Has the Government challenged the European Commission to present these elements? No more graphic reports from these guys have been resubmitted? When Mr Secretary of State tells us that the only good news, in fact, very good news, in his words, is that there are no new cuts in national envelopes—and we realize that he says so—that tells us a lot about the point that has come about in terms of cohesion and justice of the so-called values of solidarity in the European Union. If that is the good news and the rest are bad news, then this review of the Plurianual Financial Framework is itself bad news for Portugal and for the peoples and workers of Europe. These political options to further divert these tens of billions of euros into arms, to a war that seems to have no end, as has been said, and the necessary support for the war in Ukraine are clearly majority political options in this Chamber. We do not follow that policy. We do not agree that this tragedy, which has lasted for almost 10 years and has worsened strongly in the last two years, can come to an end if we send more missiles, more bombs, more weapons, because that is not how peace will be achieved. It is imperative to put an end to this war, but this war has no end to the sight of it, and it seems that there are those who want this war to continue and that the war business continues to advance. Mrs. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, it is imperative and urgent that this European Union and these policies, also in the context of the Plurianual Financial Framework, should, as an objective, be to build ways for peace, for development and for respect for the rights of peoples and workers. This is not the result of this QFP review, and it is certainly not the result of these war drums that continue to be heard about what is happening in Europe and in the world. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u42	To reply, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u43	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, I sincerely thank you for showing us from time to time that this graph is very relevant and that it only helps the argument that we systematically make in the discussion forums at European level as to the need to have another understanding of the dichotomy that is usually handled between net contributors and net beneficiaries and that actually only serves the strictly monetary, financial and financial element. In fact, we should see the beneficiaries of European integration, the beneficiaries of the single market and the taxpayers not only in the direct financial contribution, but in everything we contribute to the European project and everything we benefit from and withdraw from it. Of course, I have no doubt that, at this wider reading, the result is very different, and the Member States that are in their position as net contributors actually take very strong advantages from participation in the internal market. These advantages are, too, not unique, not uniform, not equal to all and obviously very unequal. This is an element for which Portugal constantly draws attention and is a discussion that has several refractions. I must tell you, Mr President, that, as you know, what is now on the table is not the negotiation of the Plurianual Financial Framework, it is a review, which is necessarily surgical, directed and limited. Therefore, it is not a question of recasting all the terms and assumptions with which the Community budget is established; we will have this discussion in a few years and it will be very difficult. Then again, this chart will certainly be very useful. Now there was a more limited exercise involved. Even in the context of this more limited exercise, we have continued to draw attention to the fact that a promise from the European Commission, which was then on its way, was that of the so-called European sovereignty fund. The European Sovereignty Fund was just as much to treat the European companies of the most technologically advanced cutting-edge sectors, linked to digital transition, green transition, etc. , irrespective of the Member State in which they were located, what does not happen when these companies and those vanguard sectors are supported through State aid, because there are Member States that are able to give much more aid in the context of State aid than others. Depending on the budgetary strike they have, depending on the financial margin they have, there is a treatment that can be very asymmetric and that can even lead to fragmentation within the internal market, if companies in certain Member States receive large aid and the European Commission allows such aid to a large extent and if others, because they are in other Member States which do not have the same conditions, do not receive the same aid. We must therefore draw attention to the fact that the policy that has been followed in recent years is that the flexibility of State aid has also had a very uneven effect and the effect of affecting the so-called level playing field within the internal market. Therefore, rather than national solutions, which the European Commission allows, or lets go, what we need is European solutions that all of us are dealing with at the same time, which support sectors that need to be supported and which, in particular, prevent them from fleeing to other places and that there is outsourcing to other parts of the globe that are significantly subsidizing these types of industries, such as China and, in the context of inflation ReductionAct, the United States of America. Therefore, what we have to do in support of the most advanced technological sectors must be in a European framework, fully European, which ensures uniform treatment, ideally until convergence, and which fights and does not promote this differentiation or fragmentation within the single European market.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u44	Mr. Secretary of State, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u45	I will now finish, Mr President. This is a demonstration, in a very small area which was now on the table, of the most general subject that Mr has come to bring. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u46	To speak on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: With regard to the impasse of the previous European Council, Mr President-in-Office of the Council presented, as a possible solution to respond to the circumstances of a people being attacked, the possibility that, in the absence of an agreement in the European area - of all those present in the European Council - of action, let us say, of varying geometry at European level. I wanted to grasp this idea because it seems to me that it should be applied, in the exact measures and in the same terms, to what we have seen today in Palestine, but we do not see this coherence to be applied by the Portuguese Government. We see an ongoing genocide in Palestine. South Africa has called into question Israel at the International Criminal Tribunal ( ICC ), Slovenia has already followed this claim from South Africa. I wonder what the position of the Government of Portugal is, whether or not it considers that we are witnessing a genocide and whether or not we are going — as the most basic rules of human rights rule dictate — to accompany South Africa in this complaint to the International Criminal Court. Israel has come to say that it rejects established international law, the two-State solution, for the resolution of the Middle East problem between Israel and Palestine. Second question: how does Portugal stand on this subject, knowing that there is no single voice within the European Council, in the European area, but that, on behalf of a variable geometry, it is possible to place a set of support to safeguard the interests of international law and this legitimate claim of the solution of the two States — the only possible solution to implement and respect the Palestinian people? The Portuguese Parliament, twice, has already urged the Portuguese Government to recognize the State of Palestine. I ask you once again: why does the Portuguese Government — as in other countries in the European area and on behalf of such a variable geometry that overlaps with the obstacles to solving problems — not recognize, on its own initiative, without third parties' dependence, the State of Palestine — a very important act to safeguard the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people and to take a stand, at the moment when the genocide is under way? On these matters, Mr Secretary of State, there can be no two pesos and two measures: or there is consistency, and they respect and safeguard human rights and Portugal has a coherent voice that is respected in the international space; or they end up playing human rights as if it were a game of chess, Monopolie, of such geopolitics that always questions the interests of peoples, human interests, to the detriment of any interest, often imperialist. These are the questions I leave you with, very direct. One last question, on the position of the Portuguese State, the Portuguese Government, regarding the new rules of economic governance that are being decided. They are neither a solution to the previous impasses, nor an extension of the possibilities for States to be less pressured by austerity policies, are a discretionary choice given to the European Commission, in order to be able to attack legitimately elected governments on their democratic choices. When the Socialist Party has said several times that these unjust rules, which are currently in force, should be reviewed, I wonder if this revision is accepted by the worst of its criteria, which is, in an authoritative way, to deliver everything to the European Commission. In the past, we have seen that for the European Commission not all countries are equal, there are countries of first and second countries, and Portugal is always in the group of the second countries.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u48	To reply, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u49	Mr President, the theme of Palestine, the absolutely dramatic situation in the Gaza Strip, is not on the agenda of the next European Council. In any case, I am very pleased to answer the questions you are asking you to say that, with regard to the position which Portugal has taken on this matter, there are no two weights and two measures. Portugal has been very coherent in terms of its work both within the European Union and within the United Nations. We have consistently defended that there is a cease-fire, we have done it within the European Union and we have voted in favour of resolutions that have been put to the vote in the framework of the United Nations, defending that ceasefire. We have come to defend systematically, and on this aspect there is unanimity between the 27, the solution of the two States as a long-term structural solution for this conflict. Furthermore, the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, yesterday, was quite clear in defending this solution from both States and in presenting the terms of a European Union plan for this conflict, which is precisely focused on discussing the long-term solution of coexistence between two different States. So this is the position that Portugal has always taken on and is absolutely clear about this, with a huge — huge! — concern about the humanitarian situation in the Gaza Strip. As for the European Union's economic governance rules, I do not agree with the description of the new rules, which were the subject of the agreement at the European Council level at the end of last year in December, and which are currently also under discussion with the European Parliament. It was very good that this agreement had been reached with regard to the revision of the rules of economic governance, so that the previous rules, which had been suspended during the cod and its economic consequences, could be avoided. If the previous rules were now taken back, this would be quite bad for the European Union as a whole, since they are manifestly inadequate and inadequate to the public finances situation in most Member States, especially at the level of debt resulting from the ensuing economic crisis and cowardice. It is therefore very important that there be a review of these rules. We would like to see the revision closer to the original Commission proposal, based on principles with which we agree, of greater autonomy of the Member States in defining their adjustment and differentiation paths — rather than applying blind rules — depending on the situation in each Member State. The terms in which the negotiation took place ended up introducing some elements that "hardened" more than we would like. In any case, I must say that we have been very willing throughout this debate, because the good situation of our public finances, the famous « certain accounts», allowed it, since we would comply with any of the rules that were discussed in any of its formulations. It is therefore good that there is a review of these rules. We would also have liked this review to be slightly different and, above all, closer to what was the Commission's original proposal. In any case, it is a positive development, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u50	To speak on behalf of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u51	Mr. President, I welcome you and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys, also pleased to see the Secretary of State restored here: On this subject which brings us to this day, we must not fail to ask a previous question which is related to the fact that the European Union is currently in the impasse imposed by the blackmails of Orbán, which have demonstrated well why democracies — whether in the European Union or Portugal — cannot in any way vacillate in the face of the extreme right, populist and anti-democratic attempts to undermine and destroy democracy itself. These songs show, in the view of the NAP, how wrong it was to close your eyes to violations of the principles of the democratic rule of law and also to unlock in December funds of the European Union for Hungary. They also show that progress should have been made with the procedure provided for in Article 7. the Treaty on European Union. With the presence of Mr. There are two questions that we would like to see clarified here today. One is related to a context that is being lived in Portugal, but also affecting the law of the European Union. I am talking about what is happening with the Global Media Group, which is affecting not only the rights of workers, but also the principles of European law because, in a blatant way, we are seeing rules of European law, on the independence of social communication and transparency of companies, to be called into question. The Government — I know it is not about your protections, but especially about the Ministry of Culture — has somehow passed responsibility only to the ERC ( Regulatory Entity for Social Communication ), but, given that it may be here that the violation of European law may be concerned, I wonder whether the Government does not fear that this complacency is brought to the European Commission, which can in turn be regarded as violating the law of the European Union. Another issue that we would like to see also clarified, to conclude, has to do with Erasmus and Erasmus + scholarships, which have only reached about 2.5% of Portuguese higher education students who have participated in Erasmus. This is too low a value to face the burden students have to face. [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]] I therefore ask whether Portugal will be struck by an extension of the funds provided for in the Erasmus programme at the level of European Union law so that school action — at national level, but also at European level — can see its robust funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u52	To reply, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u53	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, the situation in the Global Media Group is, in several respects, very worrying. Unfortunately, I do not believe that the solution to this issue will be found at the next European Council and, therefore, I do not have an answer right here to give to the issue in this context. With regard to the Erasmus + programme, it is well known that it is one of the most successful programmes of the European Union and that it helps to create, feed, encourage the European spirit, especially in the youth of our Member States, and, of course, any reinforcement would be always welcome. However, we know the difficult context of the financial negotiations — that is exactly what was on the table at the last European Council and will be back at the European Council on 1 February. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u54	There is a significant reinforcement of funds for very important objectives, in particular — I believe it will be pleasant for you — a strengthening for solidarity mechanisms, which aim to respond to the increase in natural disasters, which are becoming more frequent and increasingly intense, which are the result of climate change. Of course it would be good if we managed to strengthen such an interesting programme—one more of Jacques Delors' legacys, recently party—such as Erasmus +, however, we know how financial discussions in the European Union are divided by multiple objectives and are particularly difficult. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u55	To speak on behalf of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u56	Mr. President, Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State : I have only one and a half minutes, but I should like to thank all previous speakers who have spoken on the subject of Hungary — Mrs Rosário Gambôa, Mr Paulo Moniz, João Cotrim de Figueiredo. They all mentioned the problem of the degradation of the rule of law and democracy in a country which is a Member State of the European Union and which then serves as a submarine for Putin, within the European Councils, and thus undermines the European Union. Justice is done, Mr Bruno Nunes also spoke of Hungary, but no word was heard about corruption in Hungary, nor was there any wonder that the father of Orbán, the brother of Orbán, the son-in-law of Orbán, the childhood friends of Orbán, the children of Orbán, were all the richest men of Hungary, as if by magic. [[CH protests.]] If it were only in the family, we would say it was a genetic propensity, but apparently it is also in the village's friends. But that doesn't impress anything, it doesn't impress anything with the fight against corruption. [[CH protests.]] Several of you mentioned Article 7 ( 2 ). the, which States may initiate at the European Council so as to punish these violations of the rule of law. Mr. Secretary of State was sympathetic to saying... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u57	...that this process was already under way in the European Parliament, but 10 years ago, Dear Colleagues, 10 years ago! Already after my report, there were two more, of the Dutch Member of DOS Verdes, Judith Sargentini, and of the French Member of DOS Verdes, Gwendoline Delbos — so it is not for the Council that we are going there. Let me present another article to you, which has not been mentioned so far,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u58	Time's up!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u59	... Article 259. that of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which is solely for our country to use. Mr Secretary of State, it is very simple: in order to send a complaint to the Court of Justice of the European Union there is no need for unanimity, there is no need for a majority, Portugal has to make a complaint, Luxembourg judges need to determine whether or not there is a breach of treaties. It has already been used several times; if the Commission considers it makes sense, it can join this case in court, and the big question is: why does Portugal not do what must be done?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u60	To reply, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u61	Mr President, Mr Rui Tavares, Portugal has spoken in different contexts about the situation of the rule of law in Hungary. I speak in the Council on a regular basis - in fact, personally in the General Affairs Council, in the successive dialogues we have - both the horizontal dialogues, and the country-specific dialogues, and the specific hearings we have just had in the context of the Article 7 mechanism. — and in that plan, moreover, I have systematically questioned Hungary justly about the non-execution of sentences already passed on trial, which condemned Hungary for direct violation of the European Union, either by the Court of Justice of the European Union or by the European Court of Human Rights. Therefore, I have based my interventions precisely on the non-execution of judicial decisions so that there are no more or less subjective discussions about who is being unfair, whether the Commission is pursuing Hungary, whether Hungary is doing this or doing that or not. I have consistently referred to the judicial decisions of these two bodies, of these two courts, which have already condemned Hungary, decisions which continue to be executed, either in the field of asylum rules or in the field of freedom of universities, or in the field of a judge who has been dismissed from his office. Recently, as I think you will know, there has been a trial in the Court of Justice of the European Union, initiated by the European Commission, which Portugal has expressly acceded to, being part of that procedure before the Court of Justice of the European Union, with regard to a supposed protective law of the family, but which is in fact a law which discriminates citizens according to their sexual orientation, considering that there is a gross violation of the values of Article 2. that of the Treaty on European Union in relation to that law of Hungary. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u62	So we end the first item on our agenda. We move on to the second point, which consists of political statements, having the floor to speak on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Paula Santos. I recommend that you take care of the stairwell, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Recent developments in the Global Media Group are extremely serious and raise the issue of State intervention more prominently. You cannot wait until the investment of the Assembly of the Republic and there is a new government. The situation is of concern to the workers of the JN (Jornal of News), the DN ( Diary of News ), the newspaper The Game, the Living Money, the TSF ( Wireless Telephony ) and other titles of the same Group. The attitude of the current administration, blackmailing workers and the ERC is unacceptable. And to confirm what has come to the public, it is even more incomprehensible that the administration does not pay wages to all workers, but makes several transfers of money to the administrators, when the priority should be to respect and comply with the rights of workers. Despite the necessary clarification of the responsibilities of shareholders and of the various administrations of the group, and despite uncertainties and manoeuvres of use, the current situation requires a determined and clarifying intervention at the political level, including a State intervention, ensuring that it assumes an actionist position necessary to protect jobs and defend securities, with its integration into the public sector of social communication, including the preservation of DN and JN archives, refusing any prospect, in the future, of surrender to the private sector. The situation of the group is the reflection of the process of concentration of the property of the media. The CFP has long been alerting for the consequences of this process, in the loss of plurality and independence, in the loss of quality and rigor of information, in which it is the private interests of those who hold the media groups that determine the information rather than the public interest. It is proven that this path does not serve workers, affected by low wages, precariousness and high working rates with the progressive reduction of editorials, nor does it serve freedom of the press, a fundamental element of our democratic regime. It is necessary to go to the root of the problem and to stop and reverse the concentration of ownership in the media, to ensure the independence of the media in relation to economic power and political power and to defend the country of control, taxation and tax evasion of technology companies and digital and multinational platforms. Effective and timely intervention is needed in monitoring the obligations resulting from the law: ensuring the transparency and suitability of the owners of the media bodies. The question is who knows who is in the same or who, like the CFP, is free of social communication from interferences of economic power, a plural and independent social communication in which workers' rights are guaranteed. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as much as the PS says, sometimes without account, that the country is better, that is not the reality of people's lives. Life is worse. This is what workers, pensioners and young people feel every day, when they have been over months for the salary and pension they take; when they have to go early in the morning to get a consultation; when they seek and find no home they can afford. in the last two years, despite the PS having all the conditions, it has been more entertaining to favour the economic groups, the speculators funds—and to that end it counted with the consistency of the PSD, the CDS, the IL and the Arrival, rather than solving the problems that affect people's lives. Workers struggle for higher wages, against higher cost of living, appreciation of careers and pensions. The workers of EDP (Energy of Portugal) are struggling for better wages and careers. Education and health professionals claim better careers, progressions, wages, guarantees of working conditions. The security forces professionals claim the valorization of careers, due recognition of the risk of their mission and the equalization, among all forces, of the value of the mission supplement. Judicial officials claim a decent professional status, including in terms of remuneration, working conditions and career progression. Young people are forced to emigrate. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] In Portugal they do not find a life perspective, they are not guaranteed decent wages, job stability and access to a decent housing. This does not resolve with the propaganda of tax reduction, as the PSD, CDS, the Liberal Initiative or the Arrival, which immediately leaves out those who receive low wages and do not pay IRS ( income tax of natural persons ).
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u64	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u65	We also know well for those who want to reduce taxes, for those to whom they submit themselves: the economic groups whose interests here defend.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u66	Cuba!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u67	The solution is the increase in wages—and yes, there is money, it is poorly distributed—; it is the fight against precariousness; it is the provision of public housing. It was never so hard to find a house and the costs with the house were never so high. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] It is unacceptable that incomes have had the greatest increase in the last 30 years or that families are facing the increase in interest rates, not the bank, which earns EUR 12 million per day. There are responsible, and those responsible are the political forces that have prevented the updating of the value of income and put the profits of the bank to support the increase of interest rates: PS, PSD, Liberal Initiative and Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u68	Always the same tape!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u69	These parties have shown that families can lose their home; the bank, the fund, the great owners is that they cannot lose their profits. Tomorrow the ECB ( European Central Bank ) will meet, and the prospect is that interest rates will remain high, which means that house benefits will be irreparable. It means that asphyxiation will continue when there are families that no longer have to cut and do not know how they will fulfill their responsibilities. from here we welcome the actions in several cities of the country, on the next day of January 27, demanding a condigna housing, a « House for Living. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, enough injustice, enough right-wing policy played by the PS or PSD and the CDS and their successors — the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival, in which some of the prominent leaders came from the PSD and the CDS — who agreed with cuts in wages, pensions, with the withdrawal of the Christmas allowance they wanted to make and that the Constitution prevented, and with the law of evictions, which dismissed many families. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] Workers and the people aspire to an alternative policy, which elevates their living conditions, guarantees their rights and resumes the values of April in the future of Portugal. This is the compromise that the CFP undertakes, the commitment of a better life. [[PCP applause.]] [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u70	To give the political statement on behalf of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Cantava La Garota Not that « housing is an exposed fracture » in Portugal. This phrase, in a song that shares with rapper Chullage and is called I don't know what's left, is an example of the housing crisis that is currently sweeping our country. The housing crisis is summarized in the line of those who « only came to talk about love», she said, but who ends up facing despair at the door next door. A house falls, « falls a family, the tile remains». Gandim, a rapper who likes humor too, was accompanied by Ana Bacalhau to narrate his search for home, and the title of music says almost everything: High rents. The feeling of him is that of many of us when we are confronted by prices in the current market jungle. « With the prices that I saw, even spit on me», he said. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] It is a shock to look at the receipt of maturity and compare with the lease ads. There's no wage to resist. At the end of the month the « poles» only give to a cabin, not to a worthy house. « With these high rents no one can hold, leave the fathers' house neither at 40 », he also sings, summarizing, Ana Bacalhau. With another rhythm, but with the same feeling, EU.CLIDES sings urban brutality. « Has two, has one, has zero, plus one, minus one». « Desaring, going out, going out. » It is the harsh news that many people have of their masters, eager in speculation, and denying them the right to housing. These are three examples, three examples of songs about the scourge of the housing market in our country, which shows how the generation of the younger, but not only, is confronted with a market that denies them the right to housing. These are three examples of intervention songs in this 21st century, which expose the popular feeling: the house is being used for speculation and not for housing, as should be. What has the government done about this over the time it has been ruling? He promised, promised, and even more promised, but little did. Whoever hits the PS government is the market, always eager for policies for speculation and, as a matter of fact, could always speculate. He did not put a ceiling on income, did not guarantee that there was a public investment capable of being quick to respond to people's needs. He threw the stone at the vissgolds, but it was soon to hide his hand.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u72	But it was you who gave your hand in 2015! Have shame on your face!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u73	He said until he wanted to put an end to the regime of non-standard residents, to come to say the opposite, which eventually extends until it lasts another year. All these are policies that do not play essentially. Speculation is green and the right to housing is at stake with this PS government. In 2024 there was a decision to allow so many families to pay for their homes, the biggest increase in the last 30 years in renting shows the lack of humanity in this policy of the Socialist Party for housing. Not by chance, arrive, Liberal Initiative, PSD, all of them beat palms to a measure. Large PS supporters in terms of increasing rent to 2024, the largest in the last 30 years. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] And it's good enough to make a lot of noise, but everyone remembers that, when it's to be next to speculation, when it's even to support the PS government for the biggest ever increase in renting, the Arrival, the Liberal Initiative and the PSD supported.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u74	What about Robles? Oh, my God! Or Robles? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u75	And the PS says: "No, no! We are against the market, we do not have the same policies on the right. » But the right is one who recognizes himself in the policies of the PS. And whoever rejects them, who attacks them, is the generation that has denied their right to housing; whoever wants a house and does not have wages for a house because the “kings” do not give to a decent house, because the month is too large for such a small wage and because the houses are too expensive because they are not for Portuguese wages, they are for wages out there, because the market is not made for those who work here. And whoever lets the market rule in everything denies the right to housing. That is why, on the next Saturday, again, on the streets of our country, there will be a tide of people who will say that the houses are to live, not to speculate; that the house is a right and that the State has to have a role to guarantee it as constitutional value that must be respected; that the younger generations are not obliged to live in the home of the parents until 40, or that it is known there until when, and that the wages must be valued and that the decent houses must be available to the middle classes, to the lower classes. A housing policy is done to ensure the right of everyone to housing. It's not for a few, it's not for a few, it's not for the speculating market. It's the right to live. And that is why, on the next Saturday, on the streets of our country, there will be a tide of people — young people, the least young people — who say: "against the market, in defense of housing law, the version here, this new generation. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u76	No one hits? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u77	To speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : In the face of an international instability framework, motivated by wars in Ukraine and the Middle East, which now extends to tensions in the Red Sea, the Government, despite being in management, remains a guarantee of stability and security. It was this stability that guaranteed, and continues to guarantee, predictability to the lives of Portuguese families,... [[Mr Bruno Nunes's laughs.]] ... that, in this January, they have already felt or will feel until the end of the month, on their daily basis, the increases in wages, pensions, social benefits and the effects of the reduction in taxation within IRS. Mr President, we are about a month and a half of the early 10 March elections. The decision taken by His Excellency Mr President of the Republic to dissolve Parliament accelerated the timetable and forced political parties to stand and prepare a new electoral act. Nothing in our Constitution required it to be so. But that was not the understanding of the President of the Republic...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u79	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u80	...and, therefore, here we are, ready to submit to the scrutiny of Portuguese and Portuguese, who trust us and are therefore not afraid. Although we are still at some temporary distance from this suffrage, it is already possible to state clearly that the Socialist Party is the only political force capable of guaranteeing predictability and stability to the lives of Portuguese families and companies. The Socialist Party is, as always, prepared to submit itself to the vote of the Portuguese, counting for this, with an experienced and motivated team, confident that it will present a solid and mobilising electoral programme, without imposing experiments on citizens. It is only natural, Mr President, that in a pre-election period promises and more promises are made in order to seduce the electorate. But what we have been watching from the parties on the right, from opposition to the right, is a total irresponsibility. See the case of the new Democratic Alliance ( AD ), which promises to fall from IRC ( corporate income tax ), IRS, the elimination of IMT ( municipal tax on expensive property transmissions) in the purchase of the first housing for young people, the full replacement—see pirouette! — the length of service of teachers, the universality of day care and the increase of vouchers for medical consultations in the private sector. All this while ensuring budgetary balance and accelerating the reduction of public debt. How does the Democratic Alliance — the PPD / PSD, the CDS, the same as ever — manage to launch itself in this auction of unhurried promises? Or even without giving a compliment on the economic and budgetary policy of recent years? It is that such a promise is only possible because surely the PS governments — that must be their understanding! — restored the confidence of Portuguese, economic operators and international institutions. A recovery of credibility that seems to release the genius of the magic lamp, to whom everything is possible. But the truth, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Portuguese are already used to not fulfilling the right word before the elections. Just remember what the Government of Dr. Passos Coelho, whose parliamentary bench was then led by Dr. Luís Montenegro and now strongly applauded by the current leader of the far-right parliamentary party. [[CH protests.]] If it is true that in the last 28 years the Socialist Party has ruled 21, it is no less true that whenever the Portuguese people gave up governance to the right they had as a consequence austerity in their lives, rising unemployment, cuts in incomes — in wages and pensions — huge increases in taxes, finally real impoverishment, that is, all contrary to what they promised the country then. We do not know, as in the hungry popular analogy, whether it is the alienation of reality that diverts the right from power or, on the contrary, is the withdrawal of power that explains this alienation from reality. It is truly astonishing that those who have always criticized the government for impoverishing the country now claim that it is possible to give everything to everyone. Is the country so bad, or on the contrary, by action and governance of PS, Portugal and Portuguese are, in fact, better than in 2015?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u81	Now! [[Mr André Ventura's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u82	Mr President, the answer to this question is simple. The opposition to our right ultimately gives reason to the Socialist Party and its governments. In fact, we are today better than in 2015: we are better because family income has increased; we are better because we have budgetary balance and debt reduction; we are better because social inequalities have decreased; we are better because we increase employment to historical levels; we are better because we increase pensions and social benefits above inflation; we are better because we are able to withstand the negative effects of war in Europe and a pandemic; we are better because we have exports and a level of foreign direct investment stock at record levels. In summary: we are better because the Portuguese are even better, because only in this way the country is naturally also better. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, from 2015 to 2024, the governments of the Socialist Party have ensured convergence with the European Union and overcoming goals and objectives. Several international bodies have praised the path that has been taken by us. We are sure that, from March 10, this journey will have continuity and will not be interrupted, and that we will have a new impulse, respecting and affirming the legacy of the last eight years, of which we are proud. We know that if much has been done, much is still to be done.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u83	Almost everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u84	And, therefore, we are also sure that, led by the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u85	Ahhh!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u86	... Portuguese will know that the only vote that guarantees them security, trust and predictability is in the PS. And so they will join our reformist program, ensuring that, after 10 March, Pedro Nunes Santos will be Prime Minister of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Mr Bruno Nunes's laughs.]] For us there is absolute conviction and, I would say, irrevocable conviction, that only the PS can do better than the PS. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u87	For a political statement on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Duarte Pacheco now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: in a few weeks' time, the Portuguese will be called on to say what they want for their future. It is a moment of reflection, of evaluation of what has happened, of analysis of the proposals that are presented, of what each candidate list consists of the Assembly of the Republic. in this context, allow me to focus on the position of the Socialist Party. Mr President, on the basis of the Socialist Party's speech, a foreign observer now arriving in Lisbon would have difficulty believing that this party governed the country 22 years of the last 29 years. Much less believe that this party has been ruling Portugal consecutively for eight years. The problems exist, but nothing is your responsibility: it is from the Passos, it is from the Cavaco, it is from Salazar, perhaps Afonso Henriques, but from the PS no one is responsible. [[PSD applause.]] We have failed to solve the problems of the Portuguese, but the fault lies with the pandemic, it is the war of Ukraine, it is the inflation, it is the conflict of the Middle East, but the Socialist Party is no one responsible,... [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u89	Not at all! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u90	... even when it is known that other countries, with which we compete directly, lived the same external context and managed to overcome it, growing more than Portugal and overcoming us, as is the recent case of Romania. Do you remember the time when the Romans came here seeking better living conditions? [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] With your governance, it will soon be the Portuguese who go to Romania to get a better life. [[PSD applause.]] It is this party that, without responsibility for anything, now appears passing the image of being with the washed face. It presents, however, precisely the same faces that have led us to the current situation. Yes, to a situation of chaos in health, education, justice, security, agriculture, etc. etc. - we could be here all day. And if we could talk to those responsible for this misfortune, one by one, such is not possible in this short space of time, so we concentrate on the leader of the Socialist Party itself. Dr. Pedro Nuno Santos wants to present himself as a virgin, but we all know that this is not true, because it is filled with sins. It has been seven years in this socialist government and is therefore responsible for the chaos in which it has come, with the greatest irresponsibility during this government. But he, in addition to this co-responsibility, has direct responsibilities in the folders he accompanied: housing, transport, public works, and there chaos is no less. In the railway, based on the various announcements made by the government and by Dr. Pedro Nuno Santos, there should no longer be a Portuguese without a train at its door, but the reality is that delays are gross, service is worse and with increasing suppressions. Talk to people travelling on several lines here in the suburban area of Lisbon. They travel with them and confirm what is the reality of the country, whether it is the speech of Peter Nuno Santos or that in which people live in their day-to-day lives. [[PSD applause.]] In the TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ), the situation is insane, such was the slightness of governance: injection of EUR 3, EUR 2 billion of our taxes; million compensation approved by mobile; decision to request the intervention of the inspection of the ministry to Alexandre Reis situation and then be the Secretary of State himself who will make this inspection report; or finally dismiss the CEO (executive chief) of the TAP and only then go to the search for reasons for this dismissal, so that, rightly, they will fall every day, such is its fragility. The list of cases involving the PS leader also includes the purchase of shares of the CTT ( Correios de Portugal ), without any explanation given to the Portuguese. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this whole reality classifies the situation of the PS. We are before a Socialist Party who is solely and exclusively responsible for the situation in which the country is located. We are before a Socialist Party that says to present solutions to the country's structural problems, without ever having implemented them during the more than 20 years of its governance. It presents the same team that ruled us and that is responsible, all of it, for the current situation in the country. He presented a candidate to the Prime Minister who, as a minister, was responsible, like all others, for the global chaos, to which he added, in his case, a voluntarism, an amnesia crisis, contradictions, lightness in the governance of the public case, which raise many doubts about his competence for the role. If the Portuguese feel that all this is little, then they must continue to vote in the Socialist Party. But the Portuguese who are disappointed, tired, tired, who don't want any more of the same, know, within themselves, that there is only one real alternative,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u91	It's true, it's enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u92	... and that the same is corporated by the Democratic Alliance. March 10 will be the day of change in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]] Mr President, allow me to use 30 seconds, since this is my last intervention in the Assembly of the Republic, to thank everyone for the friendship and respect that I have always felt from all sides. Serving Parliament and Portugal is an honor I will never forget. Serving the West was no less for me. I did the best in everything I did. I would like to thank everyone for their friendship. Presidents Almeida Santos, Jaime Gama, Mota Amaral, Assumption Esteves, Ferro Rodrigues and Santos Silva ; and the Members of all political forces and my party, of course. Allow me to give a personal example of something I would like you to endure here, in this House, forever. About 10 years ago, I had a complicated personal situation. One day, a colleague from a political force opposed to my office phoned me about a matter, and I answered as best I could. After half an hour, he called me back and said: « Duarte, I perceived, by his voice, that he is not well. I don't want to know what it is, but if you need anything, I'm here. » May this friendship always reign in this House. [[PSD and PS applause, standing, and IL and BE.]] [[In the meantime, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u93	Thank you very much, Mr Duarte Pacheco. Having the honour at this time to be the President-in-Office of Parliament, I would like to express the great friendship and privilege that has been here for so many years with you, as well as to express the hopes of the greatest success in your life outside of Parliament, and above all that we are going to find ourselves for life, since you and I will move away from the parliamentary struggles. Thus, for a political declaration by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u94	Ex. Mr. President, Mr. Members: The country is approaching a decisive moment for the choice of its future on the 10th of March. In recent months we have had the fall of a government in a scandal of prevarication, corruption and trafficking in influence—as if the fall of the government were not, by itself, sufficient to leave the country alert to the permanent degradation to which the institutions are being subjected in Portugal. The end of an absolute majority government, the absence of explanations, thousands of euros in notes, as if that were little for the Portuguese. A crisis of deep institutions, an even more marked degradation. They look at Parliament and say: what answers do we have from here? None. It seems that today is not happening and that this Parliament cannot look at it, knowing the depth it has and the root problem of Portuguese institutional culture in recent years. We live in a crisis of profound institutions. Whoever ignores it will be swallowed up and overcome by history, because history does not forgive those who ignore the most basic movements of sovereignty of their country: the people. The people, who always look at us waiting for a word, an answer, something that says "we are here and we are listening". At the time we are in this Parliament, the country is debating another scandal of national corruption. At the time we are in this Parliament, another author is detained waiting to be heard by a court. At the time we are in this Parliament, the country has new suspicions about politics, politicians, authorities and government. But still, nothing prevented the PS from going up to the rostrum, not to speak of Madeira, the Azores or the Government, but to speak of the 10th March solution, to speak of the votes and to speak of elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u95	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u96	That is why it is not from these elections that we have to speak about today, it is from the rotating doors, corruption and institutional degradation that marks the Portuguese reality. Mr President, let me remind you of an episode which I think should be public knowledge today. Former Socialist Minister Manuel Pinho, as we all know, had the protection of EDP. This same minister awarded a company the National Strategic Plan of Tourism for EUR 1 million. I repeat, Minister Manuel Pinho awarded a German company the National Strategic Plan of Tourism for EUR 1 million. One day, Manuel Pinho stopped being a minister, as we will all stop being political one day. Where did he go to work? For a subsidiary of that company you gave 1 million euros! If this is not enough reason to look into the eyes of the Portuguese and say that the deepest degradation of the Republic is happening under our eyes, then we are not only failing today as we are ignoring the deepest of the Portuguese people. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Is this new in the Portuguese Republic? No, no, no. Jorge Coelho was Minister of Public Works and, when he left, he went to work for Mota-Engil. Ferreira do Amaral had the guardianship of Lusoponte, which was constituted under his consulate.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u97	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u98	One day, Ferreira do Amaral stopped being political, as we will all leave being one day, and went to work for Lusoponte. If this is not enough reason for us to look forward to the Portuguese and tell them that something very degrading happens here, then I don't know what the reason will be for it. [[Protests from PS Francisco César.]] We can also talk about the Azores, if you like, Mr! The honourable Member is the last to be able to talk about anything in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. Deputies is the last one to be able to talk about anything in Portugal, but when you want to talk about the Azores and the families that the PS has placed there, we will talk about it because it is always the PS that has them there. Whenever you want, we'll talk about it, Mr. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests from PS Francisco César.]] I know it costs, but I never throw the stone that could forcefully fall on the glasses of the Socialist Party. In 2023, under the Government of the Socialist Party, Portugal... [[Protests from PS Francisco César.]] Mr. Deputies, leave the Azorian families there! [[Protests from PS Francisco César.]] It's your problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u99	Mr. André Ventura, allow me to ask you to Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to listen to each other. You would like to continue, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u100	They have to hire less family members. It has to be! [[Protests from PS Eurico Brilliant Days and Francisco César.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you have to wait a while. I know it costs, but in democracy we have to listen. In 2023, under the Government of the Socialist Party, we went down to the worst ranking ever in the rule of law and in the fight against corruption. If what is happening today in the Autonomous Region of Madeira is not enough to make us stop, think and tell the Portuguese that this climate of degradation has to end, then I do not know what is more important to tell the Portuguese. As if this were not enough, we have a party from a government that falls because of the circumstances I have just said, under the judicial suspicion of crimes committed against the Republic, against the country; a prime minister who comes out for suspicion of crimes committed against the Republic, against the country, keeping the same ministers who are part of that government who fall for suspicion against the Republic, against the country. Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, March 10 isn't just about the parties we're going to choose. March 10 is a fundamental choice of the change we have to make in Portugal to stop the absolute degradation in which we find the institutions. Others, the same as usual, will think of looking to the side; there are others who will cut what they have to cut, clean what they have to clean and make the Portuguese Republic a worthy Republic for the Portuguese. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u101	For a political statement by the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : There are exactly 46 days left for the Portuguese to demonstrate in elections what assessment they make of the way the country has been governed, or out of government, in recent years and to say, through the power of the vote, what their choice of the future, which paths should be followed. It is important to present therapies, since the diagnosis is made, it is known and unfortunately, meaning for all. We must look at facts and present solutions, concrete proposals — immediate implementation, other degrees, short-term and medium- and long-term ones — always with the aim of having a country with better living conditions and more opportunities. So let's go to facts and solutions. Fact: we have a serious structural problem. We continue to be a country of low gross wages and even lower net wages, a country of weak purchasing power and low levels of investment. What's the solution? From then on, download the IRS so that the Portuguese have more net salary to have more money in each person's purse; download and simplify an IRS model with fewer steps, less benefits, less deductions and lower rates; bet on economic growth, dishonoring and simplifying all barriers to investment, from taxes to bureaucracy, because only growth will bring more opportunities and better wages for everyone. Fact: Health is in collapse. Family doctors are missing; waiting lists for consultations and surgeries are still an unfortunate reality; professionals are discredited and exhausted. What's the solution? A global reform of the sector, creating a universal system of access to health, where public, private and social work in permanence to serve the users. Fact: There are problems in the housing. Few houses, rents and high prices. What's the solution? Several, but it is essential to create conditions for more construction, so that there is more supply; simplify licenses and lower taxes on materials, services, in acquisition. In short, stop treating housing as a luxury property and, yes, as the right it is. The fact is that there are structural problems in terms of mobility and transport, both in urban areas and throughout the national territory. What's the solution? A national railway plan to be implemented without further delay, ensuring linkage to all district capitals, introducing competition in rail and river transport through concessions or privatization. Fact: education does not work and new generations are losing skills, say the results of the PISA ( Programme for International Student Assessment) and those that were recently presented by the IAVE ( Institute of Educational Assessment ). Professionals demotivated, learning recovery failures, insistence on centralist models that resolve nothing. What's the solution? There are several. Of course, more autonomy indeed, not virtual. It is urgent to create the conditions so that, community, school, family, student and student, we can get education back to work. It is urgent to implement a real learning recovery program and to re-evaluate externally. Fact: our institutions are discredited, with a crisis of confidence that increases by the many suspected corruption of the last few months. What's the solution? Several, such as, for example, rapidly reducing bureaucracy and the ability to have intermediaries in the state to block project progress. And we need to start a serious debate on the educational phase in Portugal, so that it will no longer be useful to remove the legal file that merely delays the completion of the proceedings in court, even considering the introduction of global deadlines for completion of the proceedings. Fact: the principle of proportionality of our electoral system is distorted. There is a worrying problem of the waste of votes which in 2022 did not use more than 700 000 votes. It is such a serious problem that it threatens democracy itself. What's the solution? A reform that combines uninominal circles with circle of compensation. But the minimum acceptable — even because in this House no party was against — is even adding the national circle of compensation. With us there can be no more wasted votes. Fact: The interior of the country is deserted. What's the solution? Several, which are indispensable. Some have even said in this speech and I shared with you, but it is more necessary, as the creation of special economic areas to dynamize this vast area of the country that the Socialist Party has always forgotten and abandoned. It is also a form of decentralization, devolution of decision-making capacity and financial resources to the population. It could multiply the examples, always within these liberal principles in defence of economic freedom, private property, free initiative and freedom of choice, with the State focused on its functions and effective in what it truly has to do with it and not to hinder the lives of those who want to put their talents and energies at the service of the country. The Liberal Initiative is the party to reformist energy, it is the party to courage and competence. The Liberal Initiative is the solution and not the auctions. We're not the utopia party either, we're exempting flying cows. We are attentive to reality and present proposals already tested and with results. Because yes, liberalism works and it is really necessary to make Portugal grow. That is how the difference is made. We are a party that brings hope to all—for all! — and not just for some. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u103	For a political declaration, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u104	Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I cannot fail to begin this political statement without welcoming the decision of the Constitutional Court which, a few minutes ago, declared the constitutionality of the rule criminalizing ill-treatment of pet animals. Despite the troubled course and the decisions that have been filed, there is today a sign of hope that impunity in our country will not go through. This notwithstanding the path ahead, particularly with the inclusion of animal protection in the Constitution, a commitment which the NAP reiterates and for which it strengthens its determination for the next legislation. As far as this political statement is concerned, today we are talking about housing. Indeed, still this week, Guilherme Duarte sang, quite humorously, a synthesis of the harsh reality of being young in Portugal in 2024 and said: «I only have one entry if I sell two kidneys. [...] / I was born in the wrong generation, it was by a triz/ never wanted, but I will leave my country/ I will have to emigrate and try to be happy/in cities more accountful as London or Paris. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” This could even be funny, but it doesn't! In the year of the 50th anniversary of 25 April, the percentage of young homeowners is only 35 %, a much lower than that of the two previous generations in which the value was 45 % or 55 %. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not just numbers, it's numbers with stories of people inside, it's numbers of people who don't have enough numbers at the end of the month to pay their bills. It is the story of the couple who got divorced years ago, but who still lives in the same house, because he can't find an alternative solution. It is the story of the couple with children who, in front of the eviction, have to go live to a room in a fully overcrowded pension. It is the story of a retired widow who is forced to ask for favors from friends not to live on the street. It's the story of families who, because they had a pet, didn't get home. It's the story of a mother who was dumped with her son on her lap and that of the son who came back to her mother's house, because she can't pay the bank's allowance. It is the real story of a clear couple who, even being employed, lost their children and only arranged ceilings in a tent in Quinta dos Inglés, near here in Carcavelos. It is also the story of the young man who is looking for a home to buy five years ago and who sees his dream bartering in prices only accessible to foreigners or to the very rich. These stories, however, were not born from void; they were born from the policy of housing successive governments that have repeatedly failed and have not fulfilled this dream of April with promises of houses that have never left the paper, with a public housing park that represents only 2% of the national housing park today and with financial support that give good headlines in newspapers, but which leave 80 % of the housing credit contracts and 84 % of the lease contracts out. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on Saturday, January 27, from north to south and on the islands, we will have the country going out on the street in defense of the right to housing, which is not a mere expectation that has to be claimed. Getting out of the street was never, in fact, so necessary, since we are the country where to work, earn wages and have savings no longer guarantees access to a home to live. This month the incomes have had the greatest increase of the last 30 years and the rise in interest rates has reached values so stratospheric that 70 000 families are already spending half of the family budget in the provision of the house to the bank. We are from the countries of the European Union where more families live daily with the fear that they will not be able to pay the household income or benefits by the end of the month and where we have seen the number of homeless people increase by 78 % in recent years. For young people, home only if it is in the home of parents or relatives. in this Parliament, the NAP left no one behind in housing matters, nor did we let the absolute majority remain in their comfort of paper houses, we sought to build bridges and we were able to move forward for the cause of the right to housing. Thus, it was thanks to the NAP that households with housing credit stopped paying the bank commission for the processing of the benefit; it was thanks to the NAP that the exemption of the IMI (municipal property tax) increased from three to five years; it was thanks to the NAP that the value of the deduction of the IRS income increased by 100 € this year; it was thanks to the NAP that the Housing First ( Home) programs for people in homeless situations had their funding strengthened. But you need to go further. When, in terms of young housing, the absolute majority think that the solution only passes through the lease, on the other hand, we find that the right, in particular the PSD, believes that the solution only passes through the purchase of its own house. Now, the NAP presents itself with the necessary balance and solutions that give young people answers according to their dreams: for those who want to rent, we promise an update of the maximum income values of Gate 65 and access to income support; and for those who want to buy their own home, we promise the approval of a bonus credit scheme and the exemption of the IMT (municipal tax on expensive property transmissions) and of the seal tax on the purchase of the first house. The NAP also understands that the right to housing is fulfilled only if there is environmental sustainability and social justice and, therefore, we want houses to have more comfort and support, such as by reducing VAT (tax on value added) for works that aim to improve the water and energy efficiency of housing. We also want an unprecedented fight against energy poverty, with the expansion of the social tariffs of electricity and natural gas, and that all families with incomes below the poverty threshold can be supported, including through the solid programme Sol for All, bringing the surplus of energy produced to whom it most needs. We cannot just look technologically at public policies. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, one of the country's designs must be to promote the quality of life and well-being of the population, it must be to promote housing adapted to the times of the climate crisis, it must be the creation of corridors and green spaces in urban centers that combat and mitigate these effects and that, above all, provide ecosystem services and environmental services without ambiguities and ideological divides. This is how the NAP promotes the guarantee that the right to a house to live in a greener and fairer country will be at the top of the priorities of the next legislative agenda. We need, in fact, to go further and, on March 10, we will have the opportunity to continue to move forward for the cause of people, for the cause of housing, for everyone in a greener and fairer country, in a country where the dream is not a mere utopia. Above all, we'll be here with more force to fight for it.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u105	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u106	Mr President, dear colleagues : Whether today we are conducting this debate by the Standing Committee, not in the Chamber of Plenary Sessions, but in this Senate Chamber and therefore strange to a Republican, we do not speak under the statue of the Republic, but under an el-King D. Luís I who went to the throne in 1861. This led me to look for a text from a member of this House, not from this House, but from the Chamber of Deputies, right next to this year's 1861. It was called Carlos Morato Roma and wrote a book on the issue of currency, in which it says: "If it must be a mere dream of the existence of universal currency, I do not believe that this should be considered to be a European monetary system. [...] If France, taking the initiative, adopted this system, and if Italy, Spain and Portugal followed it, it is very much to believe that the example of this group of Latin nations had an irresistible force. Do not keep on seeking. ” More than 100 years before the creation of the single currency, there were those in this House who discussed the issue, and if it were perhaps in another Parliament in another country of the world, this would be recognized in some way as having been the pioneerism of a Portuguese Member on a subject that is still a topic in our society and our politics. In order to say that our national problem was never one of the ideas to be discussed in advance; the problem was always to have a social and economic structure that would be welcoming for these new ideas and to be able to implement them. The problem was never to know where Portugal is in Europe and in the world; the problem was always that, in the choice between easy money and real enrichment, political and economic elites chose easy money. The easy money was the gold of Brazil, the easy money was the extrativism of the colonies, the easy money was a certain type of European funds, the easy money is today massive tourism and luxury real estate. Easy money is also tax evasion — that's even easier! — and if there are rotating doors that lead from policy to business, there are also some that come from business, tax evasion, to policy with financing along the way. It's good that we don't forget that.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u107	That's right! [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u108	So today's national problem is still to create the conditions for real enrichment and this debate, which already existed at the time, was first of all through qualification. [[CH protests.]] I've seen someone react... imagine who? Not by chance. [[CH protests.]] The conditions for real enrichment go through the valorisation of people, knowledge and territory, through qualifications and we must say that we have achieved them today at a level comparable to that of the other European countries. They happen to get that easy money does not pass through our country in search of the purchase of products that have added value and incorporation of knowledge, technology and technique that we bought out there and that we brought in here and in which only a small elite enriched and the others were left out. The same is true today when we see houses for sale for millions and millions of euros to which normal families can not reach and we well know who is on the side of this luxury estate and who is on the side of the house right to live. The problem in our country has always been that we take a step towards progress and do not complement it with the rest: a new work culture that brings these young people who today can converge or, more than converge with the European Union's average, exceed the European Union's average at a distance from a flight from Portugal to a country in central Europe. These young people don't do it because the taxes are lower there—sometimes they're higher! — they do, because wages are higher, because public services, with these higher wages, can have higher quality and be more universal and cheaper. And they also do so because they find there a work culture that does them, whether in the public or in the private and in the social and cooperative sector. That is what we need to change in Portugal. And to change Portugal we need to renew our democratic contract, our social contract and our environmental contract. I begin with the last: in the time when Carlos Morato Roma wrote this text, to enrich was to industrialize and that was also what he defended. Industrializing was to burn fossil matter to produce and therefore pollute more, without, of course, imagining what would cause our planet through global warming of the greenhouse effect. It's not like that today. Even today, it has been reported that in the European Union we have burned less than 16 % of fossil matter, we have issued less 16 % of greenhouse gases, and that does not mean that we are impoverished 16 %. We are being able to decouple the carbon emissions industry and we will be able, in the next few years — since we were able to issue the same as we were issued in 1960 — to issue the same as in the time of Carlos Morato Roma in 1860 and, however, we will become more prosperous and distribute this prosperity better. This is the environmental contract we need. The social contract obviously has different views and we are now listening to the Liberal Initiative presenting one of them. We will be opponents in the elections and we will have views even opposed about how the social state should be the real ground of dignity below which no one can come down and which must have new elements that can catapult people for a longer life. But being an adversary in the elections does not mean being enemies and, at least, being enemies of democracy, because the real problem of Portugal is not an economic problem, it is a political problem. It is up to us to choose to build from the democracy that we have conquered, to know that the country we have is not the enemy of the country we want or, then, to go after the story of the vicar of those who say that they come to clean up the country of corruption. We heard it today. [[CH protests.]] They never cared, when they talked about Hungary, about the fact that the whole family of Orban was the richest in the country...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u109	Don't talk about Hungary!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u110	They talk about cleaning up, but they're supported by Bolsonaro. [[CH protests.]] And tell me one thing: Bolsonaro and the Bolsonarists...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u111	Lula and that's good!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u112	... cleansed the Esplanade of the Ministries when they were defecated in the Palace of the Plateau? [[CH protests.]] The real problem is that we are faced next March 10 with the choice of those who are allies of those who have defected in the Palace of the Planalto, of those who have filled the pockets in Hungary, of those who have invaded the Capitol and who, of course, would make Portugal go through the same tragedy of defiant friends, of families who do not talk, the same ones who are already devouring families from the right and the democratic center and who intend to present the miry solutions that will make all the problems of Portugal worse and will make them impossible to solve. [[CH protests.]] Renewing the democratic contract is all Democrats heed this: the left, the centre and, above all, the democratic right that accords with its torpor and, on the next day of March 10, presents the solutions of a civic proposal,... [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u113	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u114	...because there are, in fact, two different views in these elections, or it is that of Portugal to continue in civic, cohesion, cultural and social, or...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u115	Get the family to work!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u116	What did you say, Mr. Pedro Pinto? [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] Then don't say it was ironic! Don't say it was ironic, then! Because those ironies, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, don't even play! And the Portuguese won't get into them. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] [[CH protests and L-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u117	We thus end the second item on our agenda. We have moved on to the third point on the vote. [[CH protests and L-protests.]] It is evident that... Continuation of CH protests and L.'s counterprotests is manifest... Continuation of CH protests and L. Good's counterprotests, when Mr. Members understand to be timely... Continuation of the CH protests and the L's counterprotests. We shall then enter the third item on the agenda on the vote. There is quorum in the room, so we will proceed to the reading of the draft vote, presented by the PSD, of regret for the... [[CH protests and L-protests.]] At least there's respect for the dead. If there is no respect for the living, at least there is respect for the dead. [[Pause.]] We will begin the votes with the Vote Project No. 551 / XV / 2. a ( submitted by the PSD ), regretting the death of José Correia Azevedo ( 1937 - 2024 ). I would ask Mrs Lina Lopes to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u118	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is of the following content: « It was with deep dismay that the news of the disappearance, at the age of 86, of José Correia Azevedo, was known as a unique figure of political-union activism. Nurse José Correia Azevedo performed important functions at the level of the Portuguese democratic union movement. He completed the general nursing course in 1962, followed by the Head and Administration section and teaching the complementary nursing course. The political-union vocation has been present since, in 1969, competes, without succeeding, to the presidency of the Northern Nurses' Union. In 1972, he was elected President of the General Assembly of that same Union. After 25 April 1974, he took the lead of the Trade Union's Ad hoc Directorate, having subsequently passed the elections for the presidency of the Nurses' Union, as has been appointed in the meantime. It performs this function for multiple years until it is removed by a health problem. Also in 1974, he became one of the founders of the PPD—Democratic People's Party—after the PSD, where he always militated and where he was one of the boosters of the TSD—Social-Democrat Workers—the Party's work structure. It was also one of the mentors of the « Open Charter Movement », at the origin of democratic trade unionism in Portugal, and the creation of the UGT ( General Workers Union ), in which the Union of Nurses has been established. It was one of the protagonists of the historic strike of 1976 which, according to its own, changed nursing forever in Portugal. Intelligent and cult, not always consensual, but faithful to its principles and values, had the courage and resilience of traditional trade unionists and faced without hesitation or fear the employers of nurses. José Correia Azevedo was an example for many, especially in the union movement. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic transmits its most sincere condolences to the family, friends of Correia Azevedo, as well as to the democratic trade union movement and to the Union of Nurses, in particular their most sincere condolences, recalling the memory of an tireless fighter and a unique figure of unionism in Portugal. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u119	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We now move on to the Vote Project No 552 / XV / 2. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, CH and IL ) — Despite the death of Maria da Graça Carmona and Costa. I ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died on January 22, in Lisbon, at 90 years of age, the art collector Maria da Graça Carmona and Costa, and one of the biggest mecenes in the country. The sensitivity and taste for art distinguished Maria da Graça Carmona and Costa in the national artistic panorama. His long career in the gallery environment and continuous philanthropic activity played a prominent role in supporting and disseminating several generations of national creators, both in Portugal and abroad. His important collection — the most extensive private Portuguese collection — includes names such as Cabrita Reis, Jorge Queiroz, José Pedro Croft, Rui Chafes, Ilda David, Júlio Pomar and Palolo, Jorge Martins, Francisco Trope, Julião Sarmento, Vieira da Silva, Inez Teixeira or Rui Sanches. In the 1980s, he founded the Giefarte gallery, and in 1997, together with his husband, Vítor Carmona and Costa, the Carmona and Costa Foundation, a project aimed at dynamizing initiatives of contemporary Portuguese art, exposing or supporting, inter alia, through catalogue and book editions or the award of scholarships, numerous artists. His name was registered as a gallery artist and mecenas, but also as a promoter of the study of art, as is the case of the Banco de Arte Contemporânea Maria da Graça Carmona e Costa, an initiative of the City Hall of Lisbon, in collaboration with the Carmona and Costa Foundation and the Art History Institute of the Faculty of Human Social Sciences of the University of Lisboa. This project, created in 2019, was designed to host and preserve contemporary documentary and artistic sculptures of plastic artists, historians and contemporary art critics, relating to the period between the second half of the 20th century and the present. The singularity of its journey of more than 50 years is attested by several distinctions, such as the Municipal Medal of Cultural Merit, granted in 2016 by the Lisbon Chamber ; the Medal of Cultural Merit, awarded in 2018 by the Ministry of Culture ; or the Lady of the Equestrian Order of S. Gregório Magno, with which it was decorated in 2020 by Pope Francis. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in Permanent Commission, expresses its regret at the death of Maria da Graça Carmona and Costa, who has devoted much of his life to promoting visual arts and the dissemination of contemporary artists. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u121	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, following the votes that we have just taken, I would ask you to follow me in a minute's silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We now have to vote on a number of opinions from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. I give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha, whom I ask for to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u122	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa, Central Court of Lisbon — Judge 10, Case No 17997 / 19.0T8LSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Pedro Delgado Alves to give written testimony as a witness within the framework of the said cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u123	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read the following opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa, Central Court of Lisbon — Judge 10, Case No 10918 / 18.9T9LSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Alexandra Leitão to give written testimony as a witness within the scope of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u125	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I would ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read the last opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Eastern Region of Porto, of the Criminal Instruction Court of Penafiel — Judge 2, Case No 1164 / 19.5T9PRD, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize the lifting of parliamentary immunity of Mr Antonio Pedro Faria within the framework of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-24.u127	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We are thus at the end of our work. I remember that checking the quorum is done by signing on the leaves that are available, so if someone has not yet signed, please do so. The next meeting of the Standing Committee is on 7 February, and political statements are contained on the agenda. Good afternoon to all. The meeting is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 34 minutes.]]
