ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We are in a position to begin this meeting of the Standing Committee. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. Thank you very much. I naturally begin by congratulating all the Members who are already elected to the next Parliament, wishing everyone, without exception, a good job. And for those who cease to function at the end of this legislature, I thank them all for their dedication, commitment, competence and enthusiasm with which they participated in our democratic life as elected representatives of the Portuguese people. I also believe that I have not yet informed the House, and I do so now that our colleague, and Vice-President, Editi Estrela has recently been appointed representative of the Committee on Culture of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in the North-South Centre. You know how I value the international and European activity of our Members, so I want to congratulate you on this and communicate it to the House. [[PS, PSD and IL applause.]] Then I have to draw the attention, if I may, of all the parliamentary groups and of the Members. Members alone for having voted today, which will take place after the preparatory debate of the European Council. There are several opinions of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members that we will have to vote, so there will be a quorum check at that time. I would ask your attention to that fact. We will then start our agenda with the preparatory debate of the European Council, under Article 4 ( 1 ( a ). the law of monitoring, evaluation and pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the process of building the European Union. To speak on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for European Affairs, Mr. Tiago Antunes.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Next week we will have a European Council, which will be marked essentially by three themes. First of all, and as it has been customary, we will have the war in Ukraine. On this matter very important decisions were taken at the last two European Councils, as is known: in December, the decision to open accession negotiations for Ukraine and Moldova as well; and, at the extraordinary European Council in February, the decision to allocate multi-annual financial support to Ukraine in the long term amounting to EUR 50 billion. this is a reaffirmation of support for Ukraine in its various dimensions — political, financial, military, diplomatic, humanitarian, and the continuation of the various fronts in which the European Union ( EU ) has been focused to maintain and reaffirm support for the Ukrainian people and condemnation of Russia's invasion. The second theme that will mark this European Council will be security and defence. European security and defence policy is something in which today it seems clear that the European Union must take greater responsibility and that significant steps must be taken. It is not, of course, a matter of creating a European army - above all, to strengthen and invest in the European defence technology and industrial base, so essentially a set of efforts to coordinate and better articulate the activity of the Member States and involve European institutions in military supply, in the joint acquisition of military equipment - as was done during the pandemic in relation to vaccines or, more recently, in relation to some energy raw materials - particularly through planning and interoperability of military equipment between the various Member States. We aim, on the one hand, to maintain and strengthen military support for Ukraine, and it is known, in this regard, that it has not yet been possible to fulfil the commitment that was made to supply 1 million ammunition to Ukraine, so we maintain that objective. And for this we must strengthen industrial and technological capacity in the area of defence within the European Union, with the aim also to strengthen the strategic autonomy of the European Union, an essential design since the European Summit in Versailles and the approval of the European Union's Strategic compass. Since we are going to channel increasing defence investments, it is important to do so especially for the European defence industry, not outside the European area, and to do so too — this is a great concern for Portugal — involving not only large companies, large corporations in this area, but also small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) that can be involved and have a relevant role in this strengthening and in this training of the European defence industry and technology sector. The third major issue concerns the situation in the Middle East, particularly in the Gaza Strip. This issue has also been discussed by the leaders in the last European Councils. The aim is now to achieve the adoption of conclusions on this subject, therefore, to take a 27 position on this issue, stating: a huge concern with the humanitarian situation in the Gaza Strip; the concern to establish a maritime corridor and to allow the provision and supply of humanitarian assistance to Gaza also by land; an immediate humanitarian pause opening the way for a lasting and sustainable ceasefire; of course, as has been done, the condemnation of the Hamas attack and the demand for the immediate and unconditional release of all hostages; the recognition of Israel's legitimate right of defence, but in terms that are in accordance with international law and international humanitarian law; a deep regret for the loss of human lives, which has already reached an absolutely intolerable scale; and the call for a definitive solution to this conflict, in line with the two-State solution. These are the three main themes that will mark this European Council, and then other issues will also be addressed. With regard to enlargement and internal reforms of the European Union to allow such enlargement, there will be a decision to be taken with regard to Bosnia and Herzegovina. The European Commission ( EC) proposed this week the opening of negotiations with regard to Bosnia. This will therefore be a matter to be discussed among the leaders, with probably the de facto recognition of the important steps, and of Bosnia's commitment and seriousness in its reforms and in its process of approach to the European Union, taking this stage of opening negotiations, but recognizing that there are still progress to be made in various areas to meet all the conditions, so the negotiating framework should be approved only when these steps are completed. There will also be a review of the ongoing work on the definition of a roadmap for internal reforms to be carried out by the European Union in order to enable the completion, or implementation, of the current enlargement process more effectively. Likewise, a migration situation will be made, now that all legislative work around the new Pact for Migration and Asylum has been completed, moving to a new phase of implementation. An analysis will also be made of the agriculture sector, with the need for action and initiatives by the European Commission to simplify and raise context costs, strengthen and strengthen the position of farmers in food distribution chains, with particular attention to the situation in this economic sector, without, of course, jeopardizing the climate transition and an open and ambitious trade policy of the European Union. Finally, an end to the economic recommendations for the euro area will be made in the context of the European Semester. These will be the themes that will mark the next week's European Council. I take advantage of this last time I address this House in this capacity — I have already had the opportunity to say goodbye to the Committee on European Affairs (CAE ), but I think it is now really at once — to thank the work that we have been doing here in the course of this mandate and the constant scrutiny by the honourable Members. Members with regard to the Government's activity in the context of the functioning of the European Union. Parliamentary scrutiny is an absolutely essential element of the functioning of our democracy and only serves to improve the exercise of governance. So, it was with great pleasure that I put my bill here before VV. For example, this is an absolutely vital aspect of the functioning of our democracy, in the privilege that has been served by my country in these functions, defending the national interest of the European Union and defending the European interest. I would also like to congratulate all the Members who were elected in the elections last Sunday and thank those who have not done so for the work they have done in this Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u3	To speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, I begin by giving the floor to Mrs Rosário Gambôa.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u4	I congratulate Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs Minister, the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Now, the war, and the invasion of Ukraine by Russia, has changed many things in our lives, and has changed significantly, as Josep Borrell said, the way we look at security and defence policy. Surely, over the years, we have relaxed our concerns, in the self-defence of the European Union, because of the long time we have had peace and perhaps also, by deepening this context, to the dependence of the United States as a safe shield, based on confidence in stability relations that have been acquired and consolidated over decades. But the world changed in a disruptive way, which we thought was impossible. New configurations arose and the sign of uncertainty expanded. At the heart of current concerns, support for the war effort in Ukraine is a vital security issue for the EU, and this is where I would like to place my intervention, Mr Secretary of State. This concern about Ukraine's war as a vital security issue for the EU suffers from increased relevance for systematic impasses in the US administration and the uncertainty of the election results that we will have in November. Europe needs to rethink, reorganise and invest in its defence policy by agreeing and coordinating a set of measures between the Member States in order to overcome weaknesses, such as producing and acquiring weapons for its own supply, which was clearly evident in Europe's inability to respond to Ukraine's commitment to send 1 million ammunition to March. It is in this sense a strategic autonomy, a technological autonomy, a stronger autonomy in terms of defence that we see with great good eye the recent approval by the European Commission of this industrial defence strategy by 2030, where defence, industrialization, and, reflexally, research, development and innovation join in a structural approach, which is intended in the long term, in order to increase the readiness of the European defence industry, by encouraging domestic production and at the same time by facilitating also contracts for the joint purchase of military equipment by the Member States, recalling a little what the Secretary of State has already referred to: the experience in health, in the time of the vaccines of the cod. But there is a goal that has been defined, even if not compulsively: that the value of the intra-European defence trade is at least 35 % of the value of the European Union defence market by 2030. But in addition to this aspect that I was showing, there is another question that I would like to highlight. This industrialisation programme also connects with other programmes, such as the programme for the industrialization of defence products managed by the European Defence Fund ( EDF ), which seeks to link R & D ( research and development) cooperative actions with industry, including, as the Secretary of State has just mentioned, a particular approach in SMEs. We think it is a good strategy, we need more industrialization, more defense and more technological innovation. However, by estimating even the optimization that may arise from the intersection of programmes, in terms of resources and investments, this strategy has an initial basic budget only for now, of 1 5 million, far away from the more than 1000 million that had been promised by Thierry Breton recently. in this sense, I ask you, about that idea that existed about the possibility of using the profits of the interest of frozen Russian assets to pay and support defense in the war of Ukraine and the purchase of equipment: at what stage is it? Mr. Secretary of State, the nodal point of defence in Europe is the Atlantic Alliance. The invasion of Russia in 2014, and later in 2022, with Ukraine, served to clearly remember the crucial role of NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ) in collective defence, and NATO has given evidence of life. We welcome the flag of Sweden stuck at NATO headquarters, formalizing the entry of 32. the Member State in the Atlantic Alliance. We all know the difficult situation that the elections for the presidency of the United States can bring to NATO. And it is absolutely incomprehensible, intolerable, that the Prime Minister of a European country member of NATO, Viktor Orbán — in the continuity of a position that is no longer of a Birrento boy who can no longer eat at the table, but is systematic — in declarations to state television in his country, has come to say with great joy that the former President of the United States, the current candidate, has firmly promised that he will no longer give a single ton for the war of Ukraine and that, in doing the same, Europe will end the war, Ukraine will surrender. The irresponsibility, the disrespect, the discrediting of institutions became formulas of success for populist political mediatism. There is an old question set forth in philosophy, which echoes with particular resonance at the moment: how much should we be tolerant of those who are intolerants? The complexity of the current situation in Europe and in the world demands more than ever cohesion and firmness around the common values and axes of European policy. But tolerance has been extended in the application of penalties when due, as well as in the effective weight of these same penalties. I ask you, Secretary of State: is this the best way? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u5	In the remaining time of the Socialist Party, you now have the floor of Mrs Jamila Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u6	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mrs. Minister, yesterday morning a Spanish flag ship with 200 tonnes of food destined for the Gaza Strip came out of Cyprus. I can only rejoice at that. But if it is a fact that humanitarian aid is necessary and urgent, it is even more urgent that a position is taken that prevents the extermination of a people in clear violation of international law. Mr Secretary of State, we know that the European Council will meet with the Secretary-General of the United Nations on this date. The illustrious Portuguese has done everything to protect these populations, surrounded by land and sea for almost two decades now. The European Union must play its part and, in addition to sending humanitarian aid, it must ask the President of the Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, who goes to the territory and takes the words of the Portuguese people, of the European people, as he did so promptly when he moved to the Ukrainian territory. We must be the force of humanitarian aid and the promotion of peace. We have to be, and we can only be, those who are proud to build peace and have to be there with those people too. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u7	To reply, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u8	Mr President, Mrs Rosário Gambôa, in fact this European Council will be very marked by issues relating to the common foreign and security policy, and in particular security and defence policy. This is part of a finding that, in the current geopolitical scenario, very unstable, marked by a great uncertainty, marked by a growing hostility and the performance of various powers that increasingly have a behaviour that constitutes a threat to peace and stability, either in Europe or in its neighbourhood — in view of all this, and in this context — Europe has to do much more than it has done in this area. This is why, today, evidence is seen of the need for increased expenditure and investment in military and security at European level, from the outset with industrial and technological training in the field of defence. It is in this context that the European Commission, as you said, introduces very recently the industrial strategy for European defence and an industrial programme for European defence. We welcome these proposals from the Commission, a work which we must necessarily carry out, on the basis of the European Union's strategic autonomy. We cannot be talking, at all times, about the European Union's strategic autonomy and not strengthening our defence autonomy, especially knowing that our participation in the NATO context is immensely important and that the importance of NATO — if it was already before — has become even more visible and pressing since the invasion of Ukraine. But we know that when we look at the future, and especially in the face of uncertainty about what will happen in the next US presidential elections, Europe must also take greater responsibility and do its part, either in the context of the so-called 'European pillar of NATO', or by strengthening its own security and defence policy. It must, of course, be able not to be so dependent on the outside, not to be so vulnerable, increasing its resilience and increasing its ability to invest, but also ideally to invest in its own industry. Therefore, rather than exporting very large sums for the acquisition of military material, we must truly use these sums in strengthening industry, including dual-use technology, which can be produced or manufactured in European soil, as I said recently, involving small and medium-sized enterprises and technology companies that can participate in this effort, and, of course, also, in Portugal, we want to participate in this effort. In all this context, as the honourable Member said, we had a happy news this week, with the flag flag of Sweden in NATO headquarters. Therefore, we are pleased with the realization of Sweden's entry into NATO, which strengthens this alliance. in this context that I have been describing, more uncertain, more worrying globally, this commitment in NATO is indeed relevant, which must be reaffirmed and in which we must also work on what can be the contribution of the European Union. Mrs Jamila Madeira referred to the situation in Gaza, which is, in fact, extremely worrying. It will be a very important moment in the European Council for this debate between the leaders of the 27 Member States and the Secretary-General of the United Nations, who has, as you know, been continually calling for a ceasefire. This is also the position of Portugal. It is necessary to stop this situation, Israel's response was justified, but it is far beyond what would be a proportional response at this time. We must therefore concentrate our efforts on the construction of a cease-fire that allows us to pave the way for a definitive, sustainable resolution for this conflict, and we must immediately support the Palestinians who are in the Gaza Strip to live a situation, to the point of view of food, which is very worrying, ensuring in all ways the provision of humanitarian assistance to the people on the ground and avoiding a escalation of the conflict in the region. That is what we should be focused on, and that is the message I hope it will come from the European Council next week. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u9	You now have the floor to speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Moniz.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister of State, on the war in Ukraine, we are at a dead end: we see a Russia that has reorganized itself, in the initial situation of the conflict, and which is being supplied with war material by the allies of Iran and North Korea, and we see an Ukraine to whom Europe has failed in the delivery of 1 million ammunition in March. We have to answer a question which Mr Macron has put, on 26 February, in Eliseu, on a meeting that took place two days after the second anniversary of the invasion of Ukraine. And the concrete question is this: how far are the European leaders, and the European Union willing to go to the side of Ukraine and the defence of the values of Europe and to ensure that that war is won by values of democracy, which are basically fundamental values of the European Union? This question goes a long way as to whether the European Union, in particular its members, is prepared, for example, to find solutions for the supply of military material in other places to respond to the urgency of the military attachment of Ukraine ; if, for example, it is willing to use the interest rates of Russian frozen assets in the West in favour of the war effort ; if, for example, it is prepared to prevent sanctions which, repeatedly and increasingly, are applied from having any effect. The question I am asking you is that in this set of concrete actions, the Portuguese Government will defend its application, as Mrs von der Leyen also defends? Will it be vehemently in this defense and in this concrete action, or will it have another position that is not, by force? This is the first question I ask you. The High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, together with the European Commission, has drawn up a defence reindustrialisation plan - we can therefore call it - which was planned from 2023 to 2025, and is now extended by 2030. We know that the area of defence has been badly abused in Portugal by this government since the recruitment, since the effectives, for example, the Arsenal do Alfeite, which we have allowed to reach a disastrous situation. There was a de-investment that has prepared us to be fragile in the context of European defence. The question I ask you is: do you view the mutualization of funds to respond to this challenge as a good measure? We have already seen that in the European Union there are countries that are in favour and there are countries that are against. I would like to know exactly whether the Portuguese Government is in solidarity with the prospect of a joint loan and, if it does not happen, whether it is willing to join the countries that want to create this joint fund to respond to this wish. I cannot but speak about defence, which is one of the subjects of the next Council, of which we have known four days ago. Portugal will have to return EUR 10 million of European funds which it has received for the implementation of the new computer system for border control, for the control of movement of people within the European framework, and we have seen the last Council of Ministers award by direct adjustment of EUR 25 million for the immediate solution of this problem. The question I ask you is: how does Mr State Secretary present himself in Brussels, in a Council that will discuss the defence, with the central issue of cross-border control, when he is forced to return EUR 10 million because he did not have the ability to use them for the implementation of a computer system? And you know why that happened? Because they badly dismantled the SEF ( Service of Foreigners and Borders)... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u11	...to cover and save Eduardo Cabrite, and this was done at the cost of 10 million euros unused, which will be returned. It is for these and others that you impoverish the country. Also on this path, unfortunately, Portugal is champion of sanctions, fines, for not transposing the directives. I can tell you that tomorrow the Court of Justice of the European Union ( TJEU) will approve a fine of at least EUR 1 million and EUR 258,000 for the delay of the Portuguese Government in transposing the directive on electronic communications. Mr Secretary of State, the transposition of directives is the fulfilment of European Union law, the creation of conditions of equity between companies and citizens in the various countries of the European Union, and we are ashamed of being fined in more than EUR 1 million, at least — money from all taxpayers — by inaction and incompetence of the government. Mr. Secretary of State, it is another contribution to impoverishment. Besides impoverishment for your incompetence, for your laxism, we are very concerned about the image that you give to the European institutions of the ability to fulfil the obligations of the Portuguese State as a full member of the European Union. In good time the Portuguese people decided, because it was enough of such incompetence to serve this country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u12	To reply on behalf of the Government, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u13	Mr President, Mr Paul Moniz, on the subject of war in Ukraine, as you know, the position of the Portuguese Government, I would even say from Portugal — because, fortunately, there has always been a great understanding of foreign policy, and it is to be welcomed that there is, and I hope that there will continue to be in the future, particularly between the two major central parties of our political system, particularly with regard to war in Ukraine — also consensualized with the PSD, from the very beginning, as it is natural, has been the indisputable support, from the first hour, to Ukraine and the indisputable condemnation, from the first hour, to Russia, by the illegal invasion and atrocities it has committed in Ukrainian territory. Therefore, either on the financial level or on the military level, Portugal has been there, Portugal will continue to be there, and I am sure that the future government will keep this line and will continue to be there, as the current government has been, in support of Ukraine in what it needs. That is why, as I mentioned in my initial speech, two very important decisions have been taken, naturally with the support of Portugal, in the last two European Councils : on the one hand, a significant step forward in Ukraine's accession to the European Union, with the decision to open negotiations ; on the other hand, the adoption of a multiannual financial assistance package to Ukraine, amounting to 50 billion. It is also under discussion a package of 5 billion to finance military support for Ukraine at European level, and I hope that even the European Council will be able to conclude an agreement on this matter between the 27 countries. So all these plans are under way. With regard to the question posed, whether we should acquire military material outside the European Union, I would say that we should obviously, in the long term and strategically, ensure that the military material to be purchased and the investment to be made in military terms is in the European Union's own military and defence industry. It is also in this context that this strategy and the defence investment plan are inserted as well as the training and reindustrialisation of this sector in the European Union. However, if this is not possible immediately, in the short term, we must consider acquiring the military material where it exists, so that we can guarantee the support that Ukraine needs in the short term. Therefore, if it is not compatible with the immediate needs that Ukraine feels on the ground, then of course we must also balance acquisitions outside the European Union. With regard to the use of interest or profits of fixed assets — which Mrs Rosário Gambôa has recently put — a three-stage work plan has been drawn up. The first two phases are already completed and the third phase is currently under discussion as to whether or not to use these extraordinary profits of fixed assets, with a view, on the one hand, to assist Ukraine and possibly to finance this European Union military reinforcement effort. It is a very sensitive matter and therefore any decision-making should be very cautious, in conjunction with other international partners. What is being done at European level must be done at global level, but it is a matter in which we are working hard. And of course we also continue to work actively on sanctions against Russia. We have already approved 13 sanctions packages, and the issue of escape from sanctions is a very important issue, which the European Union is also very attentive to, to close any chance of escape or of surrounding these sanctions. It is an ongoing work which the Portuguese State of course also supports in this matter. With regard to the long-term financing effort, which will be needed at European level in defence matters, Mrs Rosário Gambôa has recently pointed out that, in the meantime we have recently approved the value of EUR 1 5 billion allocated to defence in the interim review of the multiannual financial framework, but that is only for this period until the end of the current multiannual financial framework. When we discuss the next multiannual financial framework, we will probably have to discuss defence investment with much more ambition and much more significant values. in this context, yes, we must equalize new and additional financial resources for this purpose. A greater financial effort will have to be made in the area of defence at European level. Our point — what we have always said and in which we will insist to the end — is that this should not be done to the detriment of European investment in other areas, it should not be done to the detriment of essential European funding in areas such as cohesion, agriculture, climate change or digital transition. But yes, new sources of revenue, European Union own resources, which allow for a significant leap forward in defence investment, need to be equationd. Then, let us not confuse the issue of borders, which then leads to the subject of migration. Let's not confuse all of this with certainty. Mr President, do not get in there, do not feed these confusions — migrations and security — because we have seen this film recently and we do not want to fuel these confusions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Paulo Moniz and CH Member Pedro Pinto.]] As regards the situation of transposition of the directive on electronic communications, Mr President, you have chosen a bad example since this directive was not transposed in time because there was a dissolution of the Assembly of the Republic at the end of 2021.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u14	There's always an excuse!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u15	I was here in this House of the Republic to process a bill submitted by the Portuguese State in due time. As soon as the new Assembly of the Republic took possession, this bill was re-presented. [[Protests by PSD Member Paulo Moniz.]] The European Commission was well aware of the deadlines for voting in this House of the Republic and, nevertheless, has advanced with an infringement process which unfortunately culminated in a court trial. Why? Because there were political crises — we are going to the second! — requiring a number of cases to be brought to a halt, which are delayed. [[Protests by PSD Member Paulo Moniz.]] And I'm telling you more, Mr. Commissioner, there will be other such cases, unfortunately. There will be other delays in the transposition of directives, because there are directives concerning matters which are within the legislative competence of this House and which the Government cannot approve for itself, and, of course, when there is a political crisis, this has consequences. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u16	Incompetence is that it has consequences!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u17	To speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party, Mr Bruno Nunes has now spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u18	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members, first of all, a previous note, because I wanted to greet the more than 1 million voters who believed in the Arrival and who gave us a horrendous victory on day 10. I would also like to greet all those who have been volunteers and who have allowed the elections to take place. This previous note links with this question that, even if you lose 43 Members, you did not understand the issue of security, the question of linking to immigration, the question of what is happening in Europe and, in fact,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u19	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u20	... this visit to the meeting of the European Council could not take place, but there should be no void and Portugal must be represented. However, you little or nothing will represent us, little or nothing will represent the Portuguese people, because your policies have ended up, ended up in the worst way and ended up with a correlation with what the European Union is. [[Protests of PS Members.]] Because we do not forget that the first searches, carried out on 7 October, have to do with a European project that was a priority in Sines and which gave rise to the shame it gave. Therefore, it would be an interesting question to ask you in the Council of Europe about all these processes.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u21	Council of Europe? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u22	European Council. Ladies and gentlemen, this preparatory debate of the European Council will be marked by being the last represented by the Socialist Party, but it will also be marked by a new political-party situation in our Parliament, which will certainly be completely disparate from here on. The anti-NATO parties have entered the process of dissolution, are virtually all on the way out and have almost no representativeness in Parliament. We have moved from 12 to almost 50 Members, and Ukraine can therefore rest because it will have a force that will defend it and because we believe that it is imperative that Ukraine must win this war. [[PS laughter.]] You can laugh and you can keep laughing, but the last laugh is who laughs better. In fact, what happened was that on day 10 we laughed, and we laughed a lot. Socialism finally ended in this country,... [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] ...they're not just two parties anymore, they're three parties. Mr. Secretary of State, including, when he says that there was a great consensus in the two major parties in relation to Ukraine, I know it still costs him, but he can say that there was consensus between the three major parties,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u24	...because we are a great party, with 50 representatives in here. But, you know, Mr Secretary of State, there are issues that should be important to discuss and which can also be spoken out there when we talk about support for Ukraine. One of them is the shame with regard to what Portugal has done with the temporary protection regime, which was a consequence of the extinction of the SEF, in which all processes have now moved to AIMA ( Agency for Integration, Migration and Asylum ). What is certain is that the Ukrainian refugees who meanwhile entered Portugal — taking out those who, at some point, had the support in a certain municipal chamber of pro-Putin agents, who took their documents away from them, and that we do not forget, as we do not forget who were the camera presidents who sent the protesters' data to Russia — were at their own will and their own account, because today this temporary protection continues very much in doubt and people do not know what to do. You know, one of the things that should be mentioned is the question of young Ukrainians who tried to have school and who you say out there who tried to help, but most of these families failed to put the children in school. It's thousands and thousands of stories. Mr Secretary of State, as you have said, we agree, the three largest parties agree in support of Ukraine. We believe it is imperative that Ukraine overcome the war, so that it does not have a problem and that we do not have an even greater problem in Europe. However, we are very concerned about this joint purchase of arms, and we are concerned because it is directed by the same person who made the joint purchase of vaccines and who continues to be under investigation by the European Public Prosecutor's Office. We continue without knowing exactly the contracts and the way it was done and we liked that all this was, in fact, clarified, because this is a consequence of the lack of investment, of your incompetence and of the way the Portuguese Armed Forces dissolved. This is because it is not 2 % per year; it is almost 20 years of your responsibility and the Social Democratic Party, which did not invest in the Armed Forces and did not comply with 2 % of GDP ( gross domestic product ). And we arrive at this point and we have the armed forces with extended hands, with knees on the ground, humiliated by your gestures, because during this time, the way the management of the armed forces was ruinous and shameful, always with the approval of the left and the extreme left, and you also have a lot of responsibility. Excuse me for coming with the immigration daddy and Mr. Viktor Orbán, because nothing has to do with it. And Mr. Viktor Orbán,
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u25	O Salvini!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u26	I'm glad you're talking about it, Mr Brilliant Days, because Salvini has received more refugees... [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] He's very nervous, I understand nervousness. Salvini received more refugees in Italy, under his jurisdiction, than most of the socialist countries, who received absolutely no one. So be ashamed of the way the charges are made.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u28	The people realized once and for all that you have little to explain to us about support for Ukrainian refugees, because of the way they did it.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u29	Salvini explains!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u30	In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to say that, being no other way and having to be the gentlemen representing us at this meeting, at least do not destroy our image any more than they have done over these years, because the image that has left us out was a trail of corruption and institutional problems between the institutions. [[Protests from PS Eurico Brilliant Dias and Jamila Madeira Members.]] I believe they're getting more and more nervous, because now we're not even 1, like 4 years ago or 12 years ago, like half a dozen months ago. We're 50, and for us, they won't pass! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u31	It's not bad that it always lasts!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u32	Have you told me?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u33	You had 500 votes in the Azores!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u34	To reply on behalf of the Government, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u35	Mr President, Mr Bruno Nunes, I came here to talk about the next European Council. The honourable Member, essentially, came here to talk about internal policy, electoral results and self-reliance and self-reliance. We therefore do not have a debate or dialogue on these matters. I will reply only to what concerns the issue on the European Council's agenda, particularly with regard to Ukraine. And in this regard, he tried to enter into a national party consensus on support for Ukraine, but then on the temporary protection regime, which allowed thousands of Ukrainian refugees who came to seek security and reception in Portugal, spoke in shame.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u36	People don't have anywhere to call!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u37	With regard to the joint acquisition of arms, also for the immediate supply of military aid to Ukraine, he says he has a great concern. And then, it is stated here, once again, great supporter of Orbán, that in support of Ukraine it has done everything less to help, rather, it has difficulty, has been complicated and delayed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So we cannot want to have « sun in the air and rain in the napal», we cannot say that we are, yes sir, very committed in Ukraine, but then, in relation to each partial aspect of support, or we have doubts, or we think there is a shame, or we are next to those on the other side. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u38	Mr Bruno Nunes asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u39	Mr President, to make a point of order to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u40	For an interview with the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u41	Yes, for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u42	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u43	Mr President, I just wanted it to be distributed to the House, particularly to the Secretary of State, the project presented here by the Party of the Czech Republic, which was the only one who wanted to condemn Russia as a State supporting terrorism. Thank you. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u44	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u45	The honourable Member will be pleased to identify the project number with the Bureau so that it can be accessed electronically.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u46	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u47	Mr Rui Tavares also asks for the floor for an appeal to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u48	Very quickly, Mr President, in this distribution of documents, he asked to distribute also the first project that was presented in this Parliament, by the Free Commission, to condemn the war crimes committed by the Russian Federation, well before that which was mentioned by Mr Bruno Nunes.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u49	And how did you get here to vote? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u50	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, all these documents are public and the research is easy at the Assembly's electronic site. To speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, Mr João Cotrim de Figueiredo now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u51	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs. Members, Mr Secretary of State Tiago Antunes, with the greatest appreciation for his person, today hoped to be here asking questions to Mr Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, because it is he who will intervene next week at the European Council on behalf of Portugal. But in fact, my expectation was a bit unrealistic, because here it will not campaign for European places and at the European Council, perhaps it will, therefore, have preferred not to come. of the various issues on the long agenda of the next week's European Council, here are three topics that I would like to leave to you as our concern and question, Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u52	Cotrim is already campaigning for Europeans!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u53	For starters, Ukraine. Ukraine appears on this long agenda twice. It appears at a point called « solidarity with Ukraine » and then I imagine that the Portuguese State, the Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, will hit the chest—in the chest where a blue and yellow lacquer will be! — and to say that, yes, sir, it is very important to continue to show support for Ukraine and to confirm the support of 50 billion which was decided in December, that more military support and diplomatic support is needed, that Putin cannot win the war and that Europe must be next to Ukraine. And we're all excited about this position. A few points ahead comes another point called enlargement, where, in addition to the entry of Bosnia in this session, Moldova is already and Ukraine is again. There are no longer blue and yellow loopholes, there is no more beating on the chest; there are several public statements by the Portuguese Government saying that enlargement of the European Union cannot correspond to a reduction in European structural funds. Now, as we know, arithmetically this is impossible. It's impossible! Even though the own resources — and here we are talking only about what is planned in the European Trade in Emission Licences or of 15 % on the large companies of the OECD Pillar 1 ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) — even though these resources all produce twice as much as expected, they are still not sufficient for what is at stake here.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u54	And who pays?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u55	What does this correspond to? Is it a position of the Portuguese Government to prevent enlargement and, in particular, to prevent Ukraine's accession? Or is it a mere negotiating position? Mr. Secretary of State, I would not like Portugal to be one of those countries that would be known for asking for solidarity when it needs it and for refusing solidarity when others need it.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u56	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u57	The second theme is related to the point of migration flows. Six months ago, and we have talked about this here in the preparation of other European Councils, a procedure for infringement of Portugal was opened because of the permit of residence, the new regime agreed with the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries (CPLP ), especially because the European Commission considered that the understanding reached in the CPLP did not respect the European model of visas. At the time, there was even a relatively heated discussion on the subject. There were two months to give an official reply to the Commission, and I would like to know whether that response was given and what was the position taken by the Portuguese Government, to the extent that this has been a mess since the beginning. First, there was the infringement procedure that I had already mentioned, then the holders of these visas began to realize that they were of little use. They did not serve to travel in the Schengen area, that is, they even served, because they appeared on the website disparate information from the High Commissioner for Migrations that they did, but they did not. In employment interviews, several entities, some of them public, had doubts whether they should consider that document and other authentic entities, such as joints, chambers and even CCDR (Coordination and Regional Development Committees ), they did not know how they should interpret that residence permit—an authentic trick. The understanding I now have, looking at the history of this, is that this measure introduced in October could only have aimed to cover up the other piece of shit that was the extinction of the SEF,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u58	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u59	... that has left almost 350 000 applications for residence authorisation pending at the time of the creation of AIMA and more than 300 000 applications for the renewal of documents, in what has happened to the Institute of Registers and the Notariado. So that's it? Was it to cover up one shit that got made another? I would also like to leave the following questions to you: how is the infringement procedure in particular? What are the expectations and renewals that are still at the AIMA and the Institute of Registers and the Notary? And yet — this is particularly important because it will be the first time in this House to speak of the information produced by the Border and Foreign Coordination Unit, the so-called mini SEF, do you know how many of the holders of residence authorizations passed in Portugal have left Portugal since this authorization was granted? I have already warned: there is another trick in view, because the withdrawal of the subsistence condition, which the Socialist Party did a few months ago, is a direct contravention of what is provided for in Article 14. point 1 ( c) of the European Union Visa Code. More infringement procedures are therefore expected. Finally — I know that I am very late, Mr President, thank you for your tolerance — in honour of my presence in the Committee on Agriculture over the past year, I would just like to ask whether the Portuguese Government is going this time, and once and for all, at the point of agriculture, to defend the adoption of the genomic edition as something that can help not only Portuguese farmers but also Portuguese agriculture to make a brutal leap in water efficiency, income and resistance to disease, both plants and animals. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u60	To reply, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u61	Mr President, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, do not hurt me, but if you want to be a European Member, you have to prepare yourself a little bit better on these European issues. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] [[Protests from IL and from PSD and CH Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u62	It was so ugly!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u63	This is because it seems to be unaware of the position of the Portuguese State and Government in the process of Ukraine's enlargement and accession to the European Union. When he tries to present the Portuguese Government's position as opposed to Ukraine's enlargement or accession to the European Union, that is false and indeed rejected by successive declarations and interventions by the Portuguese Government in various European bodies. Moreover, no step has been taken in the enlargement and accession process of Ukraine without the express agreement of Portugal and without the express support of Portugal. [[Protests by IL Member João Cotrim Figueiredo.]] Since the beginning, yes, we have supported the granting of the status of a candidate country to Ukraine, which we have supported last December the opening of negotiations with Ukraine and that we have said that, in order for enlargement to take place, and because we want it to take place, it is necessary to balance the necessary reforms in the European Union to allow this enlargement. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u64	Are they going to lower the funds? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u65	So we haven't been creating difficulties, we haven't been creating entropy, we haven't been trying to deny enlargement. On the contrary, what we are saying is that those who deny the difficulties are just waving aside and trying not to deal with matters that need to be dealt with so that the European Union is in a position and has the so-called absorption capacity to receive new Member States. And a serious attitude towards the decisions that have been taken on the allocation of the status of the candidate country and the opening of negotiations is to say what needs to be reformed. So since the first hour, we have said: enlargement, yes, and reforms, yes. It has already been established, on our own initiative or with our contribution, that these two processes must go in parallel, because they are both vital, because enlargement will not succeed without a reform of the European Union. Therefore, yes, we have put the emphasis on reforming the European Union to allow enlargement, including Ukraine.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u66	Can the funds go down?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u67	Therefore, Mr President, there is long documentation of all these positions which I have just explained to you, so it is good perhaps to update your perception on this subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u68	Perceived? It was Antonio Costa who said it!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u69	With regard to the mobility agreement in the CPLP, also Mr Deputy, the European Commission has never contested its viability or legal validity.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u70	You said it didn't fit the model!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u71	The documentary model, i.e. the role that is used, in the view of the European Commission, should be another, should be a European uniform model rather than the specific model that we use. We're talking about a documentary model, we're not talking about the mobility agreement at CPLP. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u72	Exactly! That's what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u73	That's not what's at stake and so let's not confuse everything. With regard to a relatively technical aspect, we do not try to pass here an idea that all the mobility agreement is contrary to the law of the European Union, which is not, as we have just explained and as we have already explained to the European Union, clarifying in response to this infringement process that has begun. We are confident that, of course, this will be duly clarified and that the European Union will close this infringement process by understanding that these are different realities: one thing is the Schengen visa regime, another is the residence permit regime within the framework of the CPLP. They have different scopes, they have different rights, they have different purposes, one does not violate the other, each has its own space to intervene. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u74	What about agriculture? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u75	They don't care!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u76	Great exit, arrogant!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u77	To speak on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Paula Santos has now spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, the most significant on the agenda of the next European Council is that millions of people in the countries of the European Union continue to turn their backs on their problems. The increase in cost of living, the difficulties in access to health care, poverty and social exclusion contrast with the accumulation of colossal profits by banks and large economic groups, to which the European Central Bank contributes by maintaining higher interest rates, which has consequences for the worsening of the social and economic situation. This should be discussed: effective measures and policies that combat the degradation of living conditions and the worsening of social injustices and inequalities. This is what we took to the European Parliament this week in the debate on the initiative of the CFP Members. We hope, without great hope, that the third time will be and that the European Council will not remain silent in the face of the dramatic situation in Palestine, as a result of Israel's brutal aggression, that it will not continue without saying a single word of condemnation before the crimes of Israel in the occupied Palestinian territories. They are more than 100 000 victims, more than 31 000 dead, mostly children and women, and about 2 million displaced in the face of denial of the most essential living conditions, which constitutes a genocide policy on the part of Israel. The absence of any reference to this dramatic situation is revealing the cynicism and hypocrisy of those who, on other occasions, are prolific in proclamations and condemnations of violations of international law, human rights and democracy. It is a position that reflects an effective and indisputable complicity with the heinous crimes, massacres and atrocities committed by Israel against the Palestinian people. The immediate and permanent ceasefire in the Gaza Strip is urgent. Humanitarian aid to the Palestinian population is urgently needed. It is urgent to respect and implement the resolutions adopted in the United Nations which guarantee the realization of the right of the Palestinian people to a sovereign and independent State, with the 1967 borders and capital in East Jerusalem and the realization of the right to return refugees. It is also very significant that rather than adopting solutions to improve the living conditions of the peoples of the countries of the European Union, the priority of the European Council is to run arms, militarism and war. It chooses not to defend the interests of peoples, not peace, but the interests of large multinationals, arms companies, the only ones that benefit from war and the proliferation of armed conflicts around the world. Financial resources are being withdrawn from cohesion policies to feed the war, to armaments. What is missing to value wages and pensions, for health and housing is in excess of increasing the capacity to produce weapons, ammunition, bombs and missiles that will only bring more death, destruction and suffering. The question is whether the Government will maintain a position of sub-alternisation to which it is dictated by those who command the European Union, even if it is contrary to constitutional principles or if it respects our Constitution, which determines as principle the general disarmament, the dissolution of political-military blocs and the peaceful resolution of international conflicts. Life proves that war is not a solution, that a peaceful solution to end the war in Ukraine that lasts for 10 years should never have started and it is urgent that we end. They are increasingly the voices of various geography and quadrants that point as a solution to the negotiation and diplomacy to put an end to the war in Ukraine, to which the Government should have joined in respect of constitutional principles, fighting for a path to defuse international tensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u79	To reply on behalf of the Government, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u80	Mr President, Mrs Paula Santos, with regard to the situation in Palestine, in particular in the Gaza Strip, I also think — as I said in my initial speech — that the European Council should not be silent and, on the contrary, must adopt a clear statement on the situation in which we are living. This is the ambition that exists at this time and is in that sense that we are working, with a view to negotiating and approving a common language at the age of 27 on the situation in the Gaza Strip, which is ideally in our view calls for a ceasefire. That is what we have been defending, both at the European Union and at the United Nations level, and that is what we want to see happening on the ground: a ceasefire. We must work at European Union level so that this can be a unanimous position of the 27 : an immediate ceasefire and work together on a solution that can be lasting for this conflict, which, from our point of view, must also be based on the solution of the two States' recognition. This position of the Portuguese Government is known, it is clear and that is what we stand for in Brussels. That is what I hope will happen next week and that there will be a clear statement by the leaders of the 27 in this sense, with great concern for the humanitarian situation, and that is why it is happening on the ground and for the situation of thousands of people living in very precarious conditions at this time in the Gaza Strip. With regard to military financing, I have already said that, if the European Union is in fact committed to its strategic autonomy, it must necessarily invest more in its security and defence, but this investment, which must be seriously and above all in a long-term logic, should not be taken into account in other very important areas of European policy, including cohesion policy, agricultural policy, climate transition or digital transition. Therefore, of course, new and additional sources of funding will need to be found that do not compromise the necessary investment in other areas of European action. With regard to the war in Ukraine, Mrs Deputies, the distance is known—we have had multiple occasions to discuss in this Parliament—among which has been the position of the Government, constant since the beginning of the invasion of Ukraine, on 24 February 2022, and that which has been the position of the CFP on this matter. I don't think there's much to add.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u81	There! A solution to peace! War is no solution!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u82	These differences are known, this different view. Therefore, what I can assure you is that we will continue on the side of who has been invaded, on the side of who is the victim of an illegal assault that compromises international law, compromises territorial integrity and compromises the sovereignty of a State that is on a path towards the European Union. So that's where we should be. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u83	The solution is peace, not war!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u84	I now have the floor to ask the Government, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u85	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members, Mr Secretary of State, two years ago, António Costa was praised in Europe for having an absolute majority, and they launched a set of Vaticanes which included the fulfilment of a mandate that would value the social state in Portugal, Portugal's participation in the construction of a more supportive and respectable Europe of human rights, and even recognition of a voice capable of bringing these values beyond Europe. Two years later, we had an absolute majority that opened the door for the right to reach power in Portugal. We see a Europe that has in the Mediterranean, and also in this most recent law on immigration, the direct and unequivocal impact of the hand of the extreme right, and the Portuguese Government signs these agreements below in the European area. We see — it is not quite a silence, because voices are being heard — a lack of concrete action for unequivocal condemnation in the international instances of the atrocities we are witnessing in Palestine. We see the hunger being used as a war weapon in Palestine and see the thirst being used as a war weapon in Palestine: Israeli soldiers indiscriminately shoot on people who are in the ranks, hungry, thirsty, to try to get water and food for themselves and their own. War crimes are happening visible to all people who see the news and there is an ongoing genocide. It is not that Europe does not see it: several European voices recognize these crimes, but they have no action to do so. The Portuguese Government has no action to do so, to condemn these crimes to the International Criminal Court. Portugal does not, it has not joined South Africa to do so, and Europe does not. To recognize the State of Palestine, giving up to what the Assembly of the Republic has already decided, the Portuguese Government does not do so, saying that it will level up below its expectations vis-à-vis what is happening in Europe. In practice, in relation to those aspicious, even as far as human rights were concerned, where António Costa was recognized, the absolute majority of the PS and this government that is now leaving the functions show that they were not up to that expectation, that hope. We see the European Union as not even a pale image of what would be propagating its foundations, its pillars in relation to immigrants, immigration policy, a cohesion for the exploitation of the social state, the most trivial rights of the economy and the internal areas of the production economy, as we see in agriculture. European agriculture has been left behind, on behalf of trade agreements with other parts of the planet that do not meet the minimums of environmental respect or respect for human rights. There is a complete loss of the voice of the European Union, which had to be heard in the world in relation to respect for human rights. As the Secretary of State has said, this is your last visit to the Portuguese Parliament. More than discussing the next European Council, I wonder what is the balance of this disaster that we are witnessing now, on a permanent basis, in Palestine, Ukraine, Europe and the world. I believe that this legacy deserves to be discussed with this seriousness. This is my last speech in plenary, therefore, Mr President, in your own person — but also in all parliamentary leaders, and addressing compliance with the parliamentary groups, the Minister and the Government — all of whom give shape to the parliamentary mandate, the one that is one of the highest values we can play in a Republic, when it is indicated to represent those who place in us the expectation of improving their lives. I mean, for me, it was a pleasure to serve as a Member of the Assembly of the Republic. I also welcome, here in the voice and in the person of Mr. President, the services of the Assembly of the Republic, an invisible force which helps this machine to function and serve the country better. I would also like to commend a power that exists in all democracies and that it is important that it be exercised independently, with pluralism, with the certainty that they are serving the goods and values of democracy: social communication. Mrs. And the journalists here, to me, it's been a pleasure. It will not be a « until now» because I will never stop walking around, but it will always be a firm commitment to citizenship in other functions than these. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations from the PS, PSD, IL, PCP, PAN, L and CH Member Rui Paulo Sousa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u86	I also wish to thank you, on behalf of the whole House, for your words. I wish you every success in your personal, professional and also future political life, and I thank you for the contribution you have made throughout this legislature, as well as the previous legislatures, on your condition as a Member and as a parliamentary leader. [[Applause from PS, IL and L.]] In reply, Mr Tiago Antunes has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u87	Mr President, I also associate myself with your words. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, in the exercise of his parliamentary functions and leadership of the parliamentary bench, I have no doubt that he served the public case. I would like to congratulate you on this and wish you the greatest happiness for the future. Mr President, the European Union is a 27 project, and the 27 are not always in agreement at all, they do not always have the same view of everything, but they have an obligation, which is to find commitments, find a way forward and seek to approach positions. We do not have the same position as all the Member States, or even the generality of the Member States, on migration. We would like the pact for migration and asylum, which was recently approved, to have a different content in various aspects. We fight for this and we fight for it, but it was not possible that the final version approved had the content we would like most. But it is good that there is this new pact, which is a step forward in relation to the situation in place so far, to the situation we had before. We therefore support this adoption of this legislative package, which, in many respects, is indeed a step forward, but in others it is something we would like, or it contains content that we would prefer it not to have, and we say it very clearly. However, as I say, the European project is a 27 project. We can't always take our lead, we can't always succeed. We are fighting for our vision, which, in this matter, is a deeply humanist vision of much greater openness than what has come to become the European mainstream, but we still recognize that this is a step forward. It is more timid than we would like, but it is a step that we support that is taken. As far as the situation in the Gaza Strip is concerned, the 27 also do not think the same way. This is perhaps one of the external policy issues on which consensus among all the Member States of the European Union is most difficult to achieve. There has been intense work in this regard and I am quite confident, or relatively confident, that it will be possible in this European Council, contrary to what has happened in the past, to take a joint position of the 27, with a set of clear positions on what is happening, which is very worrying. The situation on the ground is very worrying, so the European Union cannot go beyond that situation, it has to discuss and has been discussing it. But, more than arguing, you have to stand up, you have to assert a position. I hope you'll be able to do it, at the level of the leaders gathered next week. I believe that this is an important moment, in spite of everything, despite our basic differences, which must be recognised. There are different views, there are different sensibilities about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict at the European Council table. That is why we have to work, that is the reality of the European Union. We would like, in fact, to be able to adopt these conclusions and take this position by clearly calling for a ceasefire, calling for a final resolution of the conflict, in particular, for a peace conference to be held to try a solution based on the two States' solution, condemning the humanitarian situation in the Gaza Strip, where people are in short supply of essential humanitarian aid, food and the most basic needs. We have been able to say very clearly all of this, Mr President. I think we have done a lot from a basic position that was quite different and that also results from a growing concern about the situation in which we are living. This is how you work in the European Union. We have not always been able to impose our vision, and we have not always managed to ensure that the unanimous decision of the 27 is our individual starting position, but we are trying, and I believe, in these areas, we have come to a positive path, which is not the whole of the path that we would like to take, but that is a step forward. That is what we are working on, and that is what the Portuguese State, I am sure, will continue to work at European level. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u88	You now have the floor to ask the Government, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate the Minister and also the Secretary of State, taking the opportunity to thank all the cooperation that has been made during this term. In fact, not only at the level of the Assembly of the Republic, but also at the level of the issues we have been asking, this collaboration has always been present in this interparliamentary relationship. With regard to the debate and preparation of the European Council, we would like to ask some questions that do not focus on the humanitarian issue which has already been clarified. In fact, this EUR 300 million package has been fundamental, taking into account the humanitarian drama in which we are living. But there is another dimension in which, in the opinion of the People-Animal-Nature, it would be essential to bring the support of the European Union as well. I am speaking in the environmental field, because Russia's action is causing an environmental disaster that constitutes a true ecocidal; we are talking about thousands of animals, of destruction and contamination of unprecedented soils; we are talking about thousands of square meters of contaminated soils. in this measure, it would be important to realize what is being done to prevent, on the one hand, the loss of biodiversity and the death of these millions of animals and, on the other hand, the impact that will have on human health all this destruction and this contamination. I am also talking about the need to rehabilitate the waste water and water treatment plants of Ukraine itself. Is there anything you're thinking about? What is Portugal's position on that? On the other hand, Mr Secretary of State, although the question of the Gaza Strip has already been referred to, we must bear in mind that since October alone more children have died than in the last four years of war. In addition to these children, there are in particular about 2, 5 million children, women, the elderly, people with disabilities and LGBTI people ( Lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgender and intersex) who need adequate and specified prevention services for the needs they are currently living. I wonder whether something is expected to be discussed in this area and what position Portugal will have in this humanitarian dimension, which, within all vulnerabilities, presents an even greater vulnerability. In addition to all the balance sheet that can also bring us today, I am grateful once again for the cooperation that has been shown throughout this mandate.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u90	To reply to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, Mr. Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to respond and also thank you for the cooperation we have had. Regarding the situation in Ukraine, it has multiple very dramatic dimensions and one of them is in fact the environmental consequences of this conflict. It is not by chance that in the peace plan of President Zelenskyy, in 10 points, one of these points has to do with the ecocidal situation. This is one of the points on which Portugal has consistently expressed its willingness to work and collaborate with Ukraine on a bilateral basis. As for the 10-point plan, we have essentially shown our ability to work with Ukraine in three of them, and one of them is precisely that. So, of course, in the work ahead, we will also be helping Ukraine in this plan, as well as in the reconstruction effort, which has many dimensions. As we know, for the time being, we have focused our support on reconstruction especially in the area of education and schools, specifically in the district of Jitomir, but, of course, in the future, there are many other areas in which a reconstruction effort will need to be made. As for the situation in the Gaza Strip, I have had the opportunity to say several times that the humanitarian situation is very worrying and is increasingly worrying for the most vulnerable populations. therefore also the importance and need of the European Union to maintain humanitarian support and funding to the United Nations agency providing humanitarian assistance, at the same time requiring serious, rigorous and independent investigation into the allegations that there are some people involved in this agency with the Hamas attack, but without jeopardizing the financing of the agency, which does absolutely essential work in the provision of humanitarian assistance, which must continue, either through this maritime route in which it is working, or through continued supplies via land. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u92	I now give the floor to Mr Rui Tavares of the Free House to ask questions to the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u93	Mr President, dear colleagues, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, if you are not mistaken, and except for some unexpected, this is the last intervention of this Parliament, a good time to make the balance sheet of the relationship between Parliament and the Government in European matters. There are times when we should be proud, and this Parliament was one of the first parliaments of the European Union, if not the first one, to adopt a draft resolution to support Ukraine's candidacy to the European Union. At that time, the Government felt that it should take this decision to the Assembly of the Republic, and I am proud that it was the Free to present the draft resolution—I think they will all be remembered—to support that candidacy. There are times, too, when the balance sheet is negative. After this Assembly of the Republic has already approved, in previous legislatures, the recognition of the independence of Palestine and, in this legislature, also with the draft resolution of the Free, had approved that the recognition of the independence of Palestine should not wait for the unanimity of the European Union, I believe that, following the views of the Portuguese Parliament, which carries the continuity of the positions of the Portuguese State on the recognition of other States, the Government would do well to take this into account, but let us not assume that this has been done after the adoption of this recent draft resolution. I believe that when we cease to perform — and we will all do so — because they are, by nature, transitional — what matters most is, one day, after we have ceased these functions, we look back and realize that we did everything we could. There is a problem in European policy for many years. It is that European policy has ceased to do: it has ceased to design and has ceased to do. Only at times of emergency, as at the time of the pandemic, is that the European Union has appeared, in spite of everything, at its best. We are in a situation where Putin has transformed the Russian economy into a war economy — not only against Ukraine but against Europe — in two years, and Europe has done nothing. We do not have the Commission with a Defence Commissioner, for example. We have not regained the idea of a European defence community, which is essential today, and we will not do so until European politics is blocked by friends of Putin's friends, some of whom sometimes fill the mouth of Ukraine, but remain friends with those who were financed by Vladimir Putin. With these and with the blocking of these, certainly, we will do nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u94	You're going to fool another one!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u95	It is this uncertainty that we also have in the Portuguese Parliament now. If we do not do everything we can to do while there are conditions to do so, we sometimes find ourselves in situations of enormous uncertainty and blockade.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u96	You've got five more minutes! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u97	For these situations, there are only two types of response: or aggravate the blockade with a speech of division, of hatred and fear, or make a speech without fear, without fear of dreaming of the future and of proposing a better future, which may be — I believe we have demonstrated it! — equally effective in relation to this speech on demagogy and populism.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u98	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u99	I believe that was also the message that the elections gave us recently.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u100	You can talk until 5:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u101	I wish the Minister and the Secretary of State the greatest happiness in their future, political and personal projects, and I also thank Mr President for all the cooperation and tolerance, sometimes in my speeches. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u102	Put your tolerance on it!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u103	To reply on behalf of the Government, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Europe. Mr President, Mr Rui Tavares, I have no doubt that Parliament has an essential role to play in European construction, in Portugal's participation in the European construction process and in the scrutiny of Portugal's participation in the European bodies, as we are doing here and as it has been done regularly by this House, either in plenary or through the European Committee on European Affairs — which I have given regular account, which certainly helps us to have a more comprehensive, more representative and more satisfactory intervention in the European institutions of the position of Portugal — or in other dimensions of parliamentary scrutiny. With regard to the activities of the European institutions, the role of this House is very important. With regard to the recognition of Palestine, and I believe that we have already had the opportunity to discuss this issue before, Portugal has no doubt about the long-term solution, which must be a two-State solution. Now, this act of recognition is only effective and has an impact only if it is made within the framework of a joint and internationally articulated intervention, and ideally if it is a catalyst for a definitive solution that brings peace and a resolution to the conflict. It is therefore within the framework of the demand for a resolution and within the framework of an international movement that we must use this instrument, for which we have no doubt. As regards the balance sheet and evaluation of the European Union's work in recent years, I believe that the honourable Member has been somewhat unfair about what the role of the European Union has been, particularly in this last term, not only in relation to the pandemic, but also in the reaction to the invasion of Ukraine and the consequences that this has had on the energy level, on the economic level, on the level of inflation, etc. In fact, there were several transformative moments, there were unprecedented decisions, some judged impossible, such as the mutualization of debt, the joint acquisition of vaccines, the joint acquisition of gas. There have indeed been significant steps along this mandate. It is true and it is known that, many times, what prevents action at European level are the crises—for a long time it is known that it is crisis in crisis that the European project is moving forward—but if we can say something about this last mandate, it is that the European Union has not wasted the crises to move forward, to progress and to take steps forward in European integration, and I believe that this is a very positive aspect. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u104	So we end this item on our agenda, saying goodbye to the government. We shall now proceed to the vote. To this end, I would ask the services which open up the quorum verification system and the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if this is possible, they will register. [[Pause.]] We will then know who failed to register: Mr Paulo Moniz of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Capoulas Santos of the PS Parliamentary Group, and Mrs Dora Brandão of the PS Parliamentary Group. They couldn't register, but they're manually registered. We shall then proceed to the reading of a number of opinions which have been received from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. To this end, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u105	Mr President, very late to all and to all. I shall take account of the opinions for the replacement of Members by waiver of the mandate in accordance with Articles 7. it's 9. the Statute of Members, who have arrived from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. First of all, it is reported that the assumption of the mandate by Cláudia Sofia Viegas Cabrita ( PS ), as a result of the resignation of the mandate by João Fernando Brum de Azevedo and Castro ( PS ), fulfils the legal requirements, with effect from 21 February 2024, including.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u106	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on this opinion. After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u107	It is also reported that the appointment of the mandate on a final basis by Dinis Manuel da Palma Faísca ( PSD ), as a result of the resignation of the mandate by Luís Filipe Soromenho Gomes ( PSD ), meets the legal requirements, with effect from 10 March 2024.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u108	Let's vote for this opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u109	a number of opinions have been received from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. The first opinion is to authorize the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of Mrs Paula Inês Alves de Sousa Real, under the reference cars — Investigation 1017 / 22.0T9STS — Court of Justice of the Comarca do Porto — Judge of Criminal Instruction of Matosinhos — Judge 2.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u110	Let's vote for this opinion. Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CH, IL, PAN and L, and votes against the CFP and BE.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u111	The second opinion is to authorize the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of Mr Pedro Saraiva Gonçalves dos Santos Frazão, within the framework of the reference cars — Case 3633 / 21.8T9LSB — Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa — Local Criminal Court of Lisbon — Judge 4.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u112	We shall vote for this opinion, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u113	The third opinion is to authorize Mr André Alexandre Pinotes Batista to give written testimony, as a witness, within the scope of the reference cars — Case 354 / 21.5GABRR — Court of Justice of the District of Lisbon — Criminal Court of the Barrier — Judge 1.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u114	Let's vote for this opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u115	The fourth opinion is to authorize Mr. João Fernando Cotrim de Figueiredo to provide written testimony, as a witness, within the scope of the reference cars — Case 3734 / 21.2T9LSB — Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa — Local Criminal Court of Lisbon — Judge 3.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u116	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on this opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u117	The last opinion is to authorize Mrs Isabel de Lima Mayer Alves Moreira to present her testimony, as a witness, within the scope of the cars in reference — Case 1633 / 22.0T9LSB — Court of Justice of the District of Lisbon — Court of Justice Local Cable of Lisbon — Judge 1.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u118	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on this opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u119	I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-03-13.u120	To be recorded, it indicates that, in the meantime, Mr Adam Silva has arrived, also manually registered. So we finish our work. The session is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 36 minutes.]]
