ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We are in a position to start our work. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha for the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u2	Mr President, very late for everyone. With Mr President's permission, I wish you all a good year. I announce that they have entered the Bureau, and were admitted by Mr. President, Bills No. 994 / XV / 2. a ( PS ), 995 / XV / 2. a ( PSD ) and 996 / XV / 2. a ( IL). We now have an opinion from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, bearing in mind that : « Márcia Isabel Duarte Passos Resende ( electoral circle of the Port ) renounced the mandate from 1 January 2024, the fact that Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic took knowledge on 28 December 2023, beginning to take up the mandate, in his place, César Jorge da Silva Vasconcelos ( electoral circle of the Port ), with effect from 1 January 2024. Having examined the relevant documents available to the Commission now, it was found that the unelected candidate, César Jorge da Silva Vasconcelos ( PSD ), is really the following candidate who must take up the term as listed in the suffrage concerning the respective electoral circle. [... ] The assumption of the mandate by César Jorge da Silva Vasconcelos ( PSD ), as a result of the resignation of the mandate by Márcia Isabel Duarte Passos Resende ( PSD ), meets the legal requirements, with effect from 1 January 2024. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u3	We shall vote for the opinion of 14. the Commission for the replacement of this honourable Member. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP and L was recorded.]] We have entered our agenda, the first item of which is the re-evaluation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 91 / XV — Regulation the access to metadata relating to electronic communications for criminal investigation purposes by amending Law No 32 / 2008 of 17 July 2008 transposing to the domestic legal order Directive No 2006 / 24 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 March on the preservation of data generated or processed in the context of the provision of publicly available electronic communications services or public communications networks, in accordance with the Judgment of the Constitutional Court No 268 / 2022 and with the tenth amendment to Law No 62 / 2013 of 26 August approving the Law of the Judicial System. To speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The House meets again to address the topic of access to metadata, specifically to traffic and location data necessary for criminal investigation, following a history already several years old and with case law interventions at various levels. In particular, the decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union have been a vector that conditions the margin that Member States have for finding solutions and formulas that balance the protection of personal data, and the protection of sensitive personal data, such as these, with the needs of criminal investigation, which also serve a purpose to safeguard the fundamental rights of citizens of the European Union. It is therefore the third time we meet to achieve this balance, on two occasions when our Constitutional Court, looking at the text of the Constitution, but also at the jurisprudence of the Court of Justice and at the reading of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, concluded that the solutions built in this House were not adequate and did not meet these requirements. We can, of course, disagree with the more or less balanced view that this case-law has been building, but what is true is that, before one more decision of the Constitutional Court, the House must comply with those which are the lines on which it can legislate. It is for this purpose that the PS Parliamentary Group, also in dialogue with the PSD Parliamentary Group, will propose to the House a solution that meets this last decision of the Constitutional Court. What became clear of the last decision is that at no time can there be acceptance of an idea of widespread conservation of these two categories of data: traffic data and location data. Therefore, in line with this guidance that the court transmits, what will be done is to identify that only with judicial authorization can there be preservation of these data to enable possible future access that may be necessary in the framework of an investigation. Of course, out of this are those cases of data that are kept with the consent of their own holders, which, in the context of their commercial or contractual relations with service providers, include the preservation of these data. Therefore, very simply, the amendments that we propose to introduce to the decree vetoed by Mr President of the Republic are precisely these: to underline that what we have to define is a regime for the data in which there is no express consent by the holders and to say that it can only take place by judicial authorization. Of course, we know — and that is also what has been transmitted to us by the criminal police, by the research authorities who have been heard in Parliament — that there is some speed and urgency in obtaining this data, and therefore the setting up of this means for obtaining judicial authorization must be speedy, we must be the object of a decision which we propose to be no more than 72 hours, but in which it is necessary to ensure, of course, the useful effect of this request for authorisation. Therefore, what we propose is that, pending the request for this judicial authorization, which will have to be issued within 72 hours, of course, there should be a ban on the destruction of the data which are required — once again, I reiterate: a specific request on access to specific data necessary for criminal investigation, not widespread access after widespread storage — and it seems to us that this should continue to be done in accordance with the proposed version which has now been vetoed at the highest level in the case of specific training of the Supreme Court of Justice specialising in this matter. Consequently, the proposed amendments seek to answer these questions: only with judicial authorization, cautioning the speed of the procedure, ensuring the usefulness of the decision and also, of course, taking into account that we are talking about only two categories of metadata, and two categories of metadata in which there was no prior consent by the holder. It seems to us that this is the end of a road that we have been looking for a long time. We hope that it will be possible, in this way, to build a legal regime, which may not be ideal, we may not agree with it, but it is the one for which judicial reading pushes us and is the one for which we hope that the House will be able to build a solution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u5	To speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party, Mr Ventura has now spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u6	Mr President, I wish you and all colleagues a good year of 2024. This is a process that was important to resolve quickly and urgently. As we warned at the time, the questions of unconstitutionality on the metadata could question—as they put, in some cases, the course of some important criminal investigations, criminal investigations that were not only important for their subject matter, for their materiality, but for the impact they had on society, because some were directly related to problems of public order and serious, organized and highly violent crime. We're talking about kidnapping crimes, we're talking about drug-trafficking crimes, we're talking about terrorism crimes, we're talking about support for terrorism, we're talking about the terrorist association or organization, we're talking about a panoply of issues that were important to the Assembly of the Republic to solve.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u7	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u8	The Constitutional Court has taken its decision, and this decision on data conservation is a clue which must lead Parliament to reflect on which standards can be effective, without neglecting its conformity. This proposal, which we are discussing in order to be able to do, and which was urgent before the end of this Parliament, is an urgent call. What we are not doing now can put many of the criminal investigations under way and many of the objects of processes under way at risk in the coming months. But it is more than that: it also relates to the time of preservation of these data, and there we should all have, together, gone further. If there are countries, states, with constitutions, indeed very close to ours as regards the materiality of criminal, criminal and constitutional rules, we could have gone further in this area of conservation, because it can be fundamental to resolving crimes, also very important, in view of the stability and public order that we must ensure. This is an issue which cannot and should not leave the Assembly of the Republic indifferent. This is an issue which cannot and should not leave the Assembly of the Republic standing. It is in the interests of all and of the country to solve this problem, before they are laid loose,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u9	... before more criminals are released or before more proceedings are brought against for mere procedural reasons. The country deserves more, the families deserve more, our cops deserve more and the judiciary deserves more. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u10	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr André Coelho Lima has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u11	I congratulate Mr President, I welcome all the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, wishing everyone a good year, since we are finishing this very short legislative session now and, finally, we are in a new civil year. Even we might well have a debate with some moderation, not only because it is eminently technical and legal, but also because we are in the spirit of the time, a different spirit from that with which we ended the previous calendar year.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u12	The time of kings!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u13	I'd leave two or three notes that I think it's important to clarify. The first is for people to distinguish between what are the contents of communications and what are the so-called « metadata ». What are the so-called "metadata" are traffic data, that is, what each one of us visits, consults, with his cell phone, and the location data, which say where each of us is, who we talk to and where the person we talk to. These data are, of course, fundamental to criminal investigation, and these data are in crisis. What did Law No. 32/2008 say until now, or better, until the first declaration of unconstitutionality? It said that, until one year, all data from all Portuguese citizens, all telecommunications operators, could be retained, retained. So, all of us, the 10 million Portuguese, had our traffic and location data properly preserved, by law. That's what was considered unconstitutional, that's what we tried to change. In the previous solution, in the solution that was worked out here and approved, we reduced this period to three months. The Constitutional Court continues to consider it too much because it is a widespread and indiscriminate conservation. That is why we are presenting this new solution. It is also necessary to say, and this House must know, that the Constitutional Court judgment No 800 / 2023 does not give any constitutional ground to the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 91 / XV, which we have done here. On the contrary, Mr President of the Republic made three requests for a pronunciation, and only one of the articles was considered unconstitutional: Article 4. it was considered in accordance with the Constitution, Article 9. the same, only Article 6. the, and in part of it, was considered unconstitutional. So we have done our work and, above all, for people to understand, we have here almost a practical example of what is sometimes said to be the rule of democratic law, or the separation of powers, which is what is happening here. In other words, this legislative body made a law, tried to meet the first declaration of unconstitutionality, the Constitutional Court considered that it is not enough, and we are here again, which means that the legislative power, contrary to what might perhaps be thought, does not have the freedom of action that one thinks. On the contrary, well, it is conditioned by the judiciary and, in this case, by the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court. Having said this, I want to explain briefly what is the proposal we are now presenting here, and also the Socialist Party. Basically, there are three amendments to Article 4. the, which is the only one that was considered unconstitutional. The first is that all conservation of metadata—so traffic or location data—can only be obtained by judicial authorisation, which means that there is no longer widespread and indiscriminate conservation, and there is selective conservation for individuals or events concrete and determined, by judicial authorisation. Second amendment: this decision must be taken within 72 hours. In other words, given the emergence of an issue — and Mr Ventura has now referred to the abduction, it is a good example — given the emergence of a certain activity of criminal investigation, it is necessary if it is fast, and it must therefore be 72 hours. Third, and very relevant, amendment is that the Public Prosecutor's Office, at this 72 hours—because 72 hours are for judicial communication— communicates to the communications operators that there is a particular data to be used. In other words, during these 72 hours operators cannot destroy the data. The Public Prosecutor's Office does not order conservation, because he cannot do so, but he can say: "I have asked the Supreme Court to make a statement on this, and until he makes a statement, the data cannot be destroyed. » What is the goal? To safeguard criminal investigation, to safeguard that, when judicial authorization is issued, the data that may be necessary to discover the practice of a crime are kept and kept. That's it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. I cannot but mention Mr Ventura — because he referred to this matter saying that the arrival had alerted us to questions of unconstitutionality, which could call into question some criminal investigations — which I have, of course, examined in detail your amendment proposal, and I must say that I was quite surprised by it in several dimensions. I'll tell you which one. Firstly, it completely ignores the rules which have been declared unconstitutional. In other words, the Constitutional Court considered Article 6 unconstitutional. o, you do not meddle in Article 6. the, and they move into Article 9. the, which had been considered in accordance with the Constitution, which is difficult to understand. [[CH Member's Protests André Ventura.]] Second, Article 9. this is not about conservation, about which you just mentioned that we could have gone further. No, Article 9. it refers to access. On the one hand, we retain, then, let's access.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u14	He doesn't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u15	You know everything! That's why you're leaving!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u16	Where's Mariana?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u17	Article 4. the conservation is Article 9. it refers to access. You have made an amendment to the preservation in the wrong article, and therefore, I think it is not right.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u18	This time he didn't get to plagiarise...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u19	Then the most important thing: Mr President, we could have gone further here, we warned about unconstitutionality, and he presented us with a solution that is worse than what the law itself already has in terms of protecting criminal investigation, and I will tell you why.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u20	The honourable Member has to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u21	I'll finish, it's 30 seconds. You say: « Only traffic data generated by a suspect of serious crime can be retained[...]. All those who are not suspected of practicing serious crime cannot be preserved, i.e., detection of crimes, prevention of crime, everything is excluded from your proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u22	No, no! On the contrary!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u23	It only applies to suspects of the practice of serious crime.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u24	On the contrary!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u25	Until Article 3. the, which was already in force, said « research, detection and repression ». You delete the detection, and only for whom you are suspected is that there can be a judicial authorization to keep your metadata. The service is not well done, they did not do the housework—we were also in the Christmas period, it is understandable—,... [[Protests by members of the CH Pedro dos Santos Frazão and Pedro Pinto.]] ... but the truth is that this proposal provides solutions to overcome unconstitutionality and to do what is necessary, both for criminal investigation and for respect for fundamental rights. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u26	The Bureau no longer makes any request for a word. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u27	Where's Mariana? Have you been drinking coffee?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u28	He is in the CTT ( Post Office of Portugal ) with Pedro Nuno Santos!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u29	Register now. For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz of the Liberal Initiative has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One of the expressions of liberalism is also the intransigent defense of individual rights and freedoms before the State, because we know that there is no freedom without privacy and there is no freedom when the public power indiscriminately collects data from its citizens, innocent and without any suspicion. The declaration of unconstitutionality, last December, of this decree that we discussed today has shown that we were right when, in October, we stated, and I quote: « Generalized conservation is unequivocally disproportionate, and again we subject ourselves to a decision of unconstitutionality, if preventive or successive supervision of the constitutionality of the diploma is requested[...]. Do not keep on seeking. ” That's what happened. Time came to give reason to the Liberal Initiative and to the arguments we presented in the working group, in which we were very vocal and participatory in trying to demonstrate that that was not the path that should be taken and that the proposal, which deserved the vote against the Liberal Initiative, exceeded the limits of proportionality in restricting fundamental rights to information self-determination and the privacy reserve of private life. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposal to amend the text of the decree which was submitted by the PS and the PSD was still polluted until the last minute of the amendment. In our view, the proposal continued to enshrine a generalized and undifferentiated conservation obligation by establishing a retention period which did not depend on judicial authorization. It's not what happens anymore. With the amendment now under way, the PS and PSD have dedicated a preservation of traffic data at the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Now, this regime in no way differs from what already exists in the Cybercrime Law, the quick freeze, legal regulatory that the Liberal Initiative spoke both in the working group. What happens to this new amendment is a preservation forward, by authorization from a judicial authority. The PS and PSD do not alter the rules already in our legal system regarding access to traffic data. Unfortunately, as we have also said several times, this has been a missed opportunity to reform and review our criminal procedural regime, ensuring the protection of the privacy of citizens, as well as safeguarding the functioning of our justice. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u31	To speak on behalf of the NAP, you now have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On this debate which brings us here again with regard to metadata, it is important to say that it is a debate on fundamental rights, but it is also a balance with what is then the fight against great crime, which cannot be left behind. in this sense, unlike some of the interventions we have heard here today, the NAP considers that the Constitutional Court in some way was well in its decision. It makes positive steps in maintaining legal certainty, above all, in what it says about how to heal unconstitutionality, but also in the transmission of metadata itself to public authorities as a security measure, something for which the NAP had already alerted during this discussion. In fact, there is an extraordinary review in this area, which we have already put on the table, because what cannot happen is the criminal investigation under way of so many cases being questioned, particularly as we have been suspended here for more than five or six months. in this sense, the NAP accompanies the text of this joint proposal of the PS and the PSD. It seems to us that it is in some way a solution that meets the need to preserve personal data in a general way, ensuring that there is a judicial authorisation for this conservation, and also setting a time limit for its preservation. In our view, this solution only falls late, not only considering that it was done late in relation to what had already been proposed in the past, because the matter is not new, but also again, because it was a closed-door debate between PS and PSD, which is not healthy for democracy. But on the other hand, follow-CL - we will - of course.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u33	What about Madeira?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u34	For an intervention, Mr Rui Tavares has now given the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u35	Mr President, good afternoon to all and to all, and good year too. One of the basic principles of the rule of law is that if you are innocent until proof of guilt. The new technological capabilities that we now have allow, however, our data to be processed in a reverse manner. In other words, everyone is treated as if he were suspected, he becomes a data stripper, and then he destroys who is innocent and who is not. To prevent such happening, we have a legal framework, both at European and Portuguese level, which, fortunately, because there are judges in the Court of Justice of the European Union and judges in the Constitutional Court, has been closer to providing more legal certainty and ensuring that fundamental rights are first preserved, including security as one of those fundamental rights. Instead of doing what the European Commission wanted to do, at the beginning of its proposals for metadata preservation, and also the Government, so that there might be what they call « a balance between fundamental rights and security », i.e. « gives half of your fundamental rights there to give you a little more security ». This is not how a constitutional regime like ours should work. Therefore, being sure that there are now changes in PS and PSD in the right direction, it is true that we have lost a lot of time with this. We could have had more legal certainty, including in research, and more protection of citizens' rights had they come before, but, despite all, they are steps in the right way, which the Free will supports.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u36	To speak on behalf of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I could begin this speech by saying « we well warned, we well warned », and I would not miss the truth, because we first warned, and we warned a second time, that all that was being proposed would hit the beams of the Constitutional Court. It was that what was done was to consider that all citizens — all citizens — would have the metadata of their communications kept, because all of them, all of them, could be suspected of crimes, of being preparing some kind of criminal action, terrorism, etc. We have always said that this widespread suspension directly dealt with the basic pillars of the rule of law and the safeguarding of the fundamental rights of citizens. We always said that. Therefore, fortunately, the Constitutional Court recognized the obvious, which was obvious to us, that we said here in Parliament, but that it was not obvious to PS or PSD that they always insisted on a wrong dimension, attacking people's fundamental rights. Now, they have come to a minimalist formulation. This is a minimalistic formulation which, in fact, exists only so that they do not say that there will be no use of some of the law that has been presented, because in practice they do not change anything in relation to what already exists in the Cybercrime Law— absolutely nothing. So why are we here having this discussion? Because PS and PSD feared, because they feared, because they feared, that there were rights that could be echoed according to a securityist vision of the state, which is not ours. Fortunately, the Constitutional Court has made it necessary to review this reality. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u38	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: 15 years have passed since the PCP alerted the problems of the legal system of access to metadata approved by PS and PSD in 2008. at that time, the PCP drew attention to the serious problems of this legal regime, with emphasis on the doubts of unconstitutionality of the option that allowed the data conservation, by drag, of all citizens, regardless of the existence of well-founded suspicions of the practice of crimes or strong indications that justified access to these metadata to prevent the practice of crimes. After 15 years since the approval of Law No. 32 / 2008, and after several judicial decisions that confirmed the problems that the PCP then identified, including the unconstitutionality that we then pointed out, the truth is that we are today making this discussion as if we were on the zero stake. Despite the amendments made to the law since 2008, of the judicial decisions that have subsequently not used them, of the arguments which, at European level, have been added over time, the truth is that the proposals that have been presented today continue to suffer from the same abuses as the original version of the law suffered and, if approved, they will most likely not have a destination other than the previous failed ones invested. The text proposed by PS and PSD continues to allow, and seems to give such coverage, the possibility of preserving data from the communications of all citizens, by drag, regardless of the existence of suspicions of the practice of crimes or sufficiently strong indications justifying the mobilisation of crime prevention instruments. It is true that the proposed text would allow judicial authorization in each specific case and in each case, so that access to metadata could contribute to the purpose of criminal investigation. But it is no less true that it also seems to allow such authorization to be requested and given for the preservation of metadata relating to communications from all citizens indiscriminately. The question is not resolved by pushing for the judiciary a decision which, in particular, has been within the framework of the law since 2008, without respect for constitutional parameters. The issue must be resolved by identifying a legal solution that supports the restriction of rights, freedoms and guarantees for the preservation of other rights, freedoms and guarantees, under conditions guaranteeing the proportionality parameters that are required. After 15 years, we are more than convinced today that this solution is only possible by preventing the conservation of metadata by drag of all citizens indiscriminately, by conforming this decision to a specific criminal procedure and subjecting it to the concrete verification of its assumptions in criminal proceedings. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u40	So we close the agenda item one. We're moving to point two, which is re-evaluation... [[Pause.]] Mr Ventura, would you like to speak on point one? Please. I ask all those who want to sign up to do so. Mr Andre Ventura, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u41	Mr President, just to make the following clear here: this subject of metadata should have been changed by 2019. It wasn't because PS and PS didn't want to.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u42	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u43	It was not because Minister Francisca Van Dunem, at the time Minister of Justice, said she did not want to make these changes because there were elections soon.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u44	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u45	We need to remember this. If we are here today to legislate in a hurry, eight days after the end of the Legislative Session, it is because the PS did not want and the PSD allowed. Now, don't say that you two came together in a room, they reached any agreement and here's a fantastic proposal. No, you had 10 years to make this amendment — 10 years,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u46	10 years? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u47	10 years! Now, in 2019,... [[PSD MP André Coelho Lima's protests.]] No, Mr. André Coelho Lima, it was important not only to talk about the part of history that your brain recognizes. There is another one, which is: in 2019 — I will read — the Ombudsman recommended changing the law of metadata, which PS and PSD said they were going to do. We're in 2024,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u48	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u49	...what have you guys done so far? Zero, ball, as Jorge Jesus says; ball, ball! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u50	You weren't here in 2019? Oh, my God! You weren't here? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u51	And come here with blah-blah-blah, as is usual, but: ball, ball! They made a ball about this. And now they come here to say: « Ah, no, he moved in Article 6. o, not 9. ; it has moved...» First: huge confusion, as usual; huge confusion as usual.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u52	It's normal, in it!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u53	This is already normal in Mr Coelho Lima, the enormous confusion over legal matters. [[PSD Member André Coelho Lima's laughs.]] But then there is the other side, which is to look at it and say: "Yes, yes, your proposal". Ours? Oh, my God! We entered here in October 2019, you are here 40 years ago, you have never made any changes! 40 years! 40! 40 years! 40! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Then, of course, the PCP and the Block say the obvious: "Oh, we've already warned. » Of course, to distrust the Public Ministry, the PJ (Judiciary Police), this is with the extreme left. That is to say: "Oh, if they come to ask the data of the citizens all, my God! Oh, if the Public Ministry starts asking for our mobile data, woe Jesus! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u54	You've got Jesus! [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]] [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u55	No, no! Whoever has to investigate has to have the right to do it,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u56	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u57	...you have to have the means to do it and you have to have the best laws to do it. Do not read them that others, such as the PCP, want to do to destroy and annihilate criminal investigation.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u58	You're so wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u59	We need to trust our police more and more in our judiciary, and not least, what you want to do. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests by the MP of PCP Paula Santos and againstprotests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u60	Mr André Coelho Lima asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u61	For an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u62	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u63	I think that Mr. President has the explanation, which I think is important after this exciting speech by Mr. André Ventura. The honourable Member has been able to say that we have been waiting for something we have been waiting for 10 years since 2019. So here the complicated mathematics was at home.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u64	This is an intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u65	He managed to say that we were here 40 years ago, when we were 50, but it was basically said here that the Ombudsman warned this Parliament in 2019, and PS and PSD did nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u66	The PSD didn't do anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u67	And I would like to recall — and I would like Mr President to recall — that in 2019 Mr André Ventura was also a Member of this House. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u68	I have not been able to decouple the question of the conduct of the work which has prompted this inquiry.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u69	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u70	I assume that Mr. André Ventura wishes to make an appeal in the same way. I'm asking you to be brief.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u71	Mr President, it is difficult to answer these appeals.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u72	You have nothing to answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u73	It is only to remind Mr André Coelho Lima that, in addition to difficulties with law, he also has them with mathematics. The elections were on October 6, month 10 of 2019, 10 — I know 10 may not be easy to understand for you –,... [[CH's laughs.]] ... 10, month 10, the year ends on 12, so you see 10 of 12. You see? It's easy to understand, 10 of 12. I was elected, in fact, in October, we took possession at the end of October, already the Provider and others had urged this Parliament to do this in March, in June, in August, in November, i.e.,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u74	And the months 11 and 12? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u75	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u76	Mr. President, just to make it clear, and for Mr. André Coelho Lima to be able to sleep better today,... [[Repeals of CH Deputies.]] ... at least, Mr President, do a favour to all — since there will be little time here in Parliament — see the TV arrival, which is the solution. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PSD MP André Coelho Lima's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u77	I remember that we have a long working session today and that we are still only going to point one. I give the floor to Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of the debate, I think it is important to remember three things. First of all, and contrary to what I have heard, it is not debate at the closed door, cooked by parties. No, the debate is taking place now,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u79	No, it's not happening now!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u80	... the parties present proposals for the debate and we are exchanging impressions on them, some expressing agreement and others expressing disagreement. And Friday we will have the opportunity to vote on what has been presented and, to the limit, proposals resulting from this debate. Therefore, the accusation that Parliament is somehow doing something in the dark falls to the ground, from the very first point of view. Secondly, achieved in the credibility of your proposal, because you have no strict connection with the judgment, Mr. André Ventura, of the Arrival, comes to trigger and cites an unknown professor of Criminal Procedural Law, Jorge Jesus. [[Rice from PS and PSD Members.]] I do not know the work and the work in this area, but I quote Jorge Jesus for something else: believe me, Mr! Believe in the rule of law,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u81	I don't believe much in PS and PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u82	... believe in the capacity of Parliament, believe in the capacity of joint work and without demagogy, to try to build solutions in accordance with the legal order. Finally, I leave one last note. In fact, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz, the proposal has evolved in the course of the evaluation of the last few weeks—and until the last few days and even the last few hours—but mainly for one reason: despite the solution that we proposed in the previously distributed version, a non-destruction for 15 days, if we appear balanced, what is true is that, by repeating the judgment, there was a risk of not being able to pass the Constitutional Court. This does not mean that this solution of a very short period of conservation is better because, despite everything, there are two important votes in that judgment, there are many Member States of the European Union seeking a separate solution of this and there is also a plurality of many other types of data, equally sensitive — as these — in which widespread conservation takes place for other reasons. So I am not taking note that this is an absolute capitulation and that this issue ends here, what we think is that it is today that it is much more important to have a law that, for some circumstances, allows a solution according to the Constitution, according to the reading of the Constitutional Court, than we continue without any law, which is what we now have. And, therefore, the commitment we come to and the approach we make to all banks goes this way: it is better to have a regime that gives solutions than we continue without any law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u83	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u84	Mr President: When I started the previous intervention saying « we well warned », I was waiting for the pains of the PS, the pains of the PSD, but strangely, who else hurt was the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u85	You don't live without it!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u86	And I understand why. It is that the arrival voted alongside the PS and PSD that 40 years ago have not solved this problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u87	Look, but you've already set up the office, haven't you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u88	Mr André Ventura, a deep acquaintance of the Constitution, voted alongside what is clearly unconstitutional. But, not happy to be next to the 40 years of PS and PSD...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u89	2015! You're ashamed of your face!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u90	... and the Constitutional Court, when the Constitutional Court says : « See, Article 6 has to be corrected. the, because Article 6. it is unconstitutional, they have to correct», what does it do? It will correct Article 9. Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u91	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u92	What about the Block? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u93	Maybe they saw it in the mirror! They were trying to copy by the colleague on the side and because the number has a round and a line, they thought it should be a 9. No, sir, it was the 6th! And, therefore, knowledge of laws, it is clear how the Arrival sees the ball! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u94	What is your proposal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u95	Nepia! No, you're a ball!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u96	Mr. André Ventura asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u97	Just to ask the Bureau, Mr. President, and ask...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u98	What time is it? What's his time?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u99	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u100	Just to ask, Mr President, to distribute what is public, which is the proposal of the Arrival, by everyone, and, if possible, to distribute the proposal of the Bloc, which does not exist. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u101	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u102	At the time of my parliamentary group, please, Mr President. I don't play secretarial games to try to talk last. May I, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u103	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u104	It's just to explain, because it doesn't seem that this has come to mind: the Left Block is against this law because it's unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u105	No, you don't have any proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u106	You have to work!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u107	The arrival tries to correct what was unconstitutional, shooting next door. He went outside, Mr. André Ventura! Learn to read first! Before you make the laws, learn how to read. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u108	You don't work!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u109	Squeezes! It's seen!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u110	Working is zero! Working isn't your strength! That is why you have five Members! They're gonna have two!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u111	I beg to be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u112	You have to study!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u113	We turn to point two of our agenda, which consists of the re-evaluation of the Decrees of the Assembly of the Republic Nos 103 / XV — Amendment to the Statute of the Order of Engineers and 112 / XV — Amendment to the Statute of the Order of Architects. To speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Hugo Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, votes for a good year. In the context of the review of the statutes of the order of architects and engineers, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, of course, begins by stressing the importance of the work of these two orders in the defence of the public interest and all the positive dialogue and contributions which have been possible to build, over the months and the debate of these two statutes, in particular with Mr President and Mr Battonary, respectively. It was a record-time work, due to the well-known need for approval, which was possible only because of the commitment of all parliamentary groups and also, of course, of the services of the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u115	What are you talking about? of the decree is certainly not!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u116	And it is in this spirit of dialogue that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will continue this debate on this important issue. We recall that if the review of the legal framework of professional public associations, which is still under way in the course of the XIV Legislation, continues on this XV, there is still time to finish before the dissolution scheduled for this month of January. Because of its central importance, it was integrated into the reforms provided for in the Recovery and Resilience Plan ( PRR ), as it is clearly known and discussed. We point out that the objectives of this reform have been laid down since 2011 in the famous memorandum of understanding with the troika, which has not been met, unlike the wage cuts and pensions of the then government of so bad memory,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u117	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u118	... the PSD/CDS coalition government. These changes were based on separating the functions of regulation and representation of professional orders, reducing the list of reserved activities, preserving conflicts of interest and allowing multidisciplinary professional societies. The professional activities associated with each profession are reserved to them only when such results expressly from the law, based on compelling reasons of public interest, through the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. The commitment of this legislation also has much to do with young people and the fight against precariousness, prevailing competition and access to the profession. We point out that, in the context of the Order of Architects, it is not anticipated and no admission examination continues, while in the engineers there should be the internship and evaluation of 18 months, allowing the most easy access to the profession. The issues of safeguarding the public interest and the quality of architecture are guaranteed to us in the defence of the sustainability of the public interest and the quality of life, are also guaranteed, through the Statute of the Order of Architects, where, for example, in the specialty, on a proposal from the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, a central issue was raised at the time by the Order of Architects, which was also appreciated by the architects of the Order.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u120	With regard to the acts of engineering, later regulation seems to us to be the way forward, given that they are multiple in the various aspects of engineering and also because of the debate that was held with the Order of Engineers, in the field of expertise. thus, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, realizing the need to approve these diplomas, is in a position to approve these diplomas, continuing this legislative process which, of course, can be revised in the future in order to improve...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u121	Let's wait!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u122	... also the statutes of orders, both architects and engineers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u123	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Nuno Carvalho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u124	Mr. President, I welcome you, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr Hugo Costa of the Socialist Party, we have listened very carefully to the various details you mentioned here, in your speech, including the need to visit this process.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u125	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u126	However, there is a question of seriousness that I think it is necessary for this Parliament and that it is essential for you to explain to us: why is it now that we have to discuss again a process which supposedly had such a big, big, big urgency that they put a rope at the neck of this Parliament and which had to be decided in a hurry last year? After all, to this day, what are the consequences of the fact that the law is not approved? It was a letter from the government that said this; there was no democracy in this process, there was no clarification. Since it is a PS proposal, please clarify us: why have you been playing with this Parliament? Can you not make an intervention that does not clarify this point, which is fundamental? Please tell us at this moment what are the alleged consequences of our continuing discussion of this law. Mr President, I am serious about this: if you do not clarify this, you are not being serious and have lied to this Parliament. You have this opportunity, please clarify. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u127	Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party. If you will allow me, I will notify the other benches that there is no registration made. Mr Bruno Nunes, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hugo Costa: I will repeat Mr Nuno Carvalho's question, because in fact we realize that the process has been greatly shaken. You guys did this on your knee. In fact, just look at the day and we realize that everything that is transposing community directives you try to leverage, try to stretch the rope more and more than it is mandatory to do and in what it is your responsibility to do, and no one can understand exactly what you want with this urgency. We may even realize, because what you want is, once and for all, taking professional orders. The warnings that have been made in this House have not come so often. They have now realized, after all the warnings and warnings that have been made, that the diplomas have arrived in the Presidency of the Republic and have been vetoed again, sent back and we continue to play with this situation. Mr President, today it is his job to try to defend something that I have found interesting — even I have drawn some notes — that is, the question of public interest, that we will be safeguarding young people in relation to internships. You treated this in a way that seems that this was not done with your hands; excuse the expression, this was done with your feet. You treated this with your feet, so that they arrived at a time when the hearings, the hearings, the opinions, the consultations that were to be made to the orders, in some cases, were made on the eve of a holiday, to give an answer until the day — useful, it is understood immediately thereafter. Therefore, orders have been disrespected, you have done absolutely nothing. We're completely against this way of trying to strangle orders and we still don't understand where they want to get. We try to understand what is the final objective of what they want with this matter, because we cannot perceive this need and urgency, with so much matter to solve. You know that the hearings, that the hearings and the entire legislative process have been done with a tremendous disrespect for all the opposition parties. You wanted to legislate alone. They decided on their own how this situation was handled. The Socialist Party's compressor roll tried to definitively strangle orders. So we cannot understand where they want to come from and the question remains: what is the urgency of trying to solve this situation when they know that they are soon to stop being government in Portugal? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u129	That's not what polls say!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u130	Take it easy, Joana, take it easy!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u131	Is it part of 65 % or 38 %? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u132	To speak on behalf of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u133	Mr President: I congratulate the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. This re-evaluation that brings us here today, basically means that we cannot ignore criticism on the part of professional orders. In some ways, the Socialist Group's bench came to take this diploma, in what the order itself pointed out in terms of fragility and in what ended up being a deregulation of the profession and a difficulty in accessing the profession, distorting up to the very proposal that the government had originally put forward. in this sense, the question of the practice of professional acts and the confusion generated here between the practice of acts, between architects and engineers, is incomprehensible from the point of view of the NAP. In fact, this whole package of legislative amendments to the statutes of professional orders — a completely shaken package which has generated confusion from the standpoint of professions — has been strongly challenged. It seems to us that it makes no sense that, at the end of this legislature, if you are insisting on a mistake, a clear mistake, in which you lose your professions, you lose your professionals and, above all, you lose the credibility of the Assembly of the Republic and who makes this initiative possible. The NAP does not follow this whole initiative, we are in line with the professional orders in this area and with the concerns that are in no way closed here. We hope that, in the field of expertise, the PS — not going too long — will come to hand in hand and correct the faults that have been pointed out.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u134	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Liberal Initiative will intervene only once on these three points of today's agenda concerning professional orders,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u136	Look how efficient!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u137	...is that of engineers, architects, doctors, nurses, lawyers or applicants, because what we have to say about each of the diplomas is common. In fact, it is not only common, it is common sense, and so much common sense that it has already entered into popular wisdom. I could, and I will, make this intervention only with the use of proverbs, to prove to you that popular wisdom is fully shaped in this discussion. First proverb: « Paul born crooked, late or never straight. It has already been said here that the way in which we wanted to legislate in this matter, in a hurryed way, not democratic and unprofessional, could in fact only give in what it has given, which was a totally erratic process and which does not satisfy anyone, culminating in the fact that we are here today discussing and re-appreciating, in their words, diplomas that have already been returned by the President of the Republic, in a manifestation of such a compressor roll, following another saying: "Send who can, obeys who has judgment. Do not keep on seeking. ” Another illusion would be, as another saying says: "While there is money, there are friends. » in this case, if it was not Brussels money, the PS had not had this whole rush or had this insistence. Therefore, when Brussels refers to what can be called « a PRR carrot », the PS even insists on measures that were already in the PS memorandum, which is not surprising because it was negotiated with you to bring the troika to Portugal in 2011.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u138	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u139	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u140	It is also possible to remove from this case the illusion—which is, by chance, more for Mr President of the Republic—that it is not a good idea to try to 'put Rossio on Betesga Street'. Mr President of the Republic says, in the messages he sends to Parliament, that while he does not want to affect competition and access to the profession, he does not want to give the orders powers to define exactly what the acts themselves are and what the graduations of the acts themselves are. I mean, that's like corporateism itself, and the ability of orders to do it was a good thing, and it's not, because, often, it's not just "who's in the convent who knows what's going on there." Finally, ask the PS, which is the most immobilist and most devoted party to reforms that have never been in Portugal, to do these same reforms, even if it is to receive the millions of Europe, recalls the saying—and here the « shoemaker» swears it is not funny— :"Who sends you, shoemaker, to play rabecão? Do not keep on seeking. ” [[IL rice and PS Members.]] For we know how to play rabecão; we have no trouble with reforms and we would not let them get in the way. For example, we would have insisted that half of the professional orders in Portugal were extinct, because they do not make any kind of sense, and of the rest that remained, that they had competition, because it is not with these remnants of corporateism that Portugal goes there. Therefore, this discussion, as I have already said, shows the great vastness and depth of popular wisdom. The Liberal Initiative knows that it is not only in this discussion; it knows that, also on March 10, the wisdom of popular wisdom will make sense, because, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, "there is no harm that always lasts." [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u141	Not even good that never ends!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u142	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Moniz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The re-evaluation of these proposals relating to the statutes of professional orders, in particular the Order of Engineers, refers us to a first finding, which is the reason for these orders. Professional orders exist to guarantee public confidence to those who resort to these professionals, that there is a body that ensures that the acts practiced by them are of quality, are in accordance with and offer guarantees. What is happening here is not just an initiative linked to receiving Europe's money, it is much more than this. This is an initiative that comes from 2019, from the previous Parliament. It was aroused when the batonary of the Order of Physicians made the denunciation of what was going on in a home in Reg nexts ; it was when the batonary of the Order of Lawyers spoke about human rights in Odemira ; and that is where the Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, warned that the orders were disturbing him and that it was necessary to change the framework. That's the reason and the center. [[PS Deputy Luís Soares Protests.]] What we see here, in this flimsy initiative, is just the attempt to numb and control politically, in terms of what are the very acts of engineering. When will the policy define by decree the competences, the skills of an engineer for certain acts of engineering? [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] This is essentially due to the achievement of a fundamental objective of political control of bodies. By entering into force and approving this initiative only by the PS, we will no longer hear the degree of autonomy and freedom of orders point to the PS, the government, what they believe is not being done well. This will cease to exist — the first objective that has been completed. The second problem of your proposal is that, contrary to the fact that we have seen proposals discussed, with serenity, with the orders, with the partners — we are talking about 400 000 professionals — something which should be done in depth, given the complexity of the subject, we see an amendment 'the horse mackerel', in a hurry, on the last day of the collapse of the cloth. And it is only not so much because of receiving the money from Brussels, but to satisfy the sole objective of the political control that the PS wants to leave as a mark and, even worse, as a mark not of excellence, but of leveling below and of having, in a few years, in the engineering and regulated professions, what you have done to education and that the PISA (Program for International Student Assessment), in the international panorama, which much penalizes us. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u144	There are no more requests for intervention... [[Pause.]] Mr Bruno Dias has the floor. I call on the parliamentary groups to use the floor to join the Bureau. Mr José Soeiro also calls for the floor. First of all, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let me remind you here of the first sentences of the text of the PCP declaration, which was given at the time of the adoption of these decrees and of the various decrees resulting from the Government's proposal for a law on this matter : « The process which today ends on 13 October 2023, on the revision of the Staff Regulations of Professional Orders, proposed by the Government, is the biggest legislative effort of the 21st century. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u146	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u147	'This legislative process has begun contrary to what should have happened. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Members, this debate that we hold today, 3 January 2024, in the re-evaluation of some of the diplomas that have emerged from this process — the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 103 / XV, on the Statute of the Order of Engineers and No 112 / XV, on the Order of Architects, and others will follow on today's agenda – is another step where it is clearly demonstrated again, the unfortunate disturbance that the Government and the absolute majority of the PS insist on imposing this Assembly, the Country and, of course, on the professionals of these areas and their orders. If, from the outset, this political and legislative process has set up a truly insulting disregard for professional orders, for the contempt it has shown for the autonomy of orders, in its own options underlying the standards of the diploma, already in this case, in which we deal with the Order of Engineers and the Order of Architects, it is particularly evident that this hostility to the regulation of professions. If this was in a transversal way, then in these cases it is especially flagrant. We do not speak of states of soul or spells; we speak of political options that are built on the idea of regulation of professions as a hindrance or a hindrance. Political options for the precarious exercise of the profession, the overlap of the interests of multinationals, the sacralization of neoliberal doctrines of troika, the studies of the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) and the taxes of Brussels in the PRR. We've been warned! Political options that have been translated into multidisciplinary societies, with all risks and problems, whether in deontology or evaluation, whether in professional secrecy at the mercy of economic power or in unacceptable definition of engineering acts and their graduation, paradoxically also disregarding the capacity of order in this part. Or even in the domain of the acts of the architect's profession and of the acts shared with other professions, once again devaluing architecture and devaluing the right to architecture as a right to the city and to the quality of life. Of course, the spokesmen of the economic groups, the proselytes of neoliberalism, you know, will always say that it is not enough. What was needed was to get on the saw and end the orders and the regulations of the professions, and all that.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u148	You've come with that written! Nobody said that!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u149	There they are screaming! ... But it is clear, with this debate and with this process, that the political options of this PS government are all but the options that are needed in a left-wing policy. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u150	You now have the floor to speak on behalf of the Left Block, Mr José Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It has already been said many times here — not only in the previous debate we had on this subject, but today — that this was a completely beaten-down process, done on the other hand, under the blackmail that if Parliament did not decide, without being able to discuss, we would be deprived of the RPP funds. And I praise the work of Parliamentary officials, committee advisors, the efforts of Members of various banks. However, it is obvious that this process was all but what must be a legislative process. These diplomas are not at issue, in particular these two, the recognition of the compulsory remuneration of internships, the functioning of deontology bodies, the existence of supervisory boards or the definition of incompatibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u152	He is, he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u153	It is concerned about an analysis which should have been more focused on its own actions and other regulatory mechanisms that allow the value of professions and, above all, to value the public interest. We will not have the opportunity to revisit these diplomas in the field of specialty in time, but we will certainly be condemned to revisit them, to return to them in the next legislature. Our expectation and our desire are that—we wish! — the next Parliament and Parliament have a composition that is more capable of valuing Parliament's own role and its own time, its own weighting, listening to entities and dialogue to achieve good laws, which has not happened in this case. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u154	To speak on behalf of the Free, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u155	Defend the PS there, defend!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the part about this being an example of how not to legislate, we can go through it quickly. It is true that all parties have said so far, but the PS itself has already admitted it. This is an example of how the absolute majority was more a curse that fell on the PS than a blessing that fell on the country, as you said two years ago. This is a situation in which they said that Brussels requires Portugal to make this reform, when it is precisely the opposite — your Government proposes Brussels to do this reform — and then they assume a reform of the orders in which they leave half, probably the most important part and without which none of this works, which is the definition of their own acts, to be reformed further. Let us now, in the middle of the mandate, with a party that had an absolute majority and could have done the reform that understood, but what happened was a crippled legislative process, with a brutal legal insecurity and, above all, with the most important part of the definition of its own acts to be done by a Parliament which may even have a very different composition. It is indeed a major failure. The principle that the orders, by performing certain functions which are referred to them by the State, to which they are mandated, may be legislated by the State, from my point of view, offers no objection. But then, in this case, this must be done with transparency and assuming the whole reform with society, which has not been done and leads us to this situation in which we are, in the middle of a bridge nowhere.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u157	To speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u158	It's not Hugo Soares, it's Hugo Costa!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u159	Mr. Hugo Costa, I'm sorry. I've seen that you're not going to intervene, but I'd like to address Mr Bruno Dias. Mr Bruno Dias and Mr José Soeiro said that the issue of the supervisory board was not at issue. He is, he is! [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] The creation of the Supervisory Board is at stake, which is created with elements all of them appointed outside the orders. And therefore basically what they want is more state and increasingly try to put more state upon it. But there is a question that remains unanswered and that the PS does not want to talk about it. The PS, in recent weeks, on the implementation rates of the PRR, has made great contradictions to saying that Portugal is the second country that has met more goals. But you always forget — I am glad that Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias is shaking his head — to mention a detail: Portugal is the second country because first of all this country is governed by dangerous fascists, which is Italy, and ruled by Giorgio Meloni. A good example that you should follow to try to get to the first place, because in fact, it is this very dangerous extreme right that goes ahead of the implementation of the PRR! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u160	Go ahead, go...!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u161	What happens to this issue of orders is that, once again, you are doing with professional orders the same blackmails that you have made with the National Association of Municipalities and are trying, in exchange for a plate of lentils, to legislate on a matter that is serious. And they do so with a hidden State hand, to take care of orders, to regulate as they want and as they want, with ever more state, in a logic that is the path that the Socialist Party currently has with the new leadership of the extreme left, which we will never accept nor tolerate. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u162	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Nuno Carvalho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr Hugo Costa, in fact, we all hope that you will make an explanation, because your main bill of charges at the moment is indeed to clarify this Parliament because it has arrived at a letter saying that this law had to be approved by the alleged imposition of Brussels. It is essential to clarify this aspect, even because it is not at issue, either near or far, that the work rendered is sought not to be paid. What is, yes, is concerned is a law that remunerates a work done according to its quality, and that is what makes a country develop, that is, that is, this work be duly recognized. And it is in this respect that we speak of our own actions: when we have professionals with quality and who provide a fundamental service to society. Mr President, what has been done in this law was precisely to remove this capacity, as is seen by the architects, which have signed a petition with more than 3000 signatures, which draws attention to the importance of their own acts, in the way they are effectively necessary and important. And the same goes for other orders. In practice, Mr President, if you do not clarify this matter, what will become clear and only clear is that you lie to this Parliament. So, clear it up! We are only sure at this point: you have produced a law that is a monster, it is a Frankenstein, it is something that was born to be killed, as Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u164	So much work! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u165	by saying « we will revisit this process », Mr President, it is to admit that there has been a law which does not serve its purpose, does not serve anything and has to be done again. More than recognizing your incompetence, first, they clarify why they forced this Parliament to produce a Frankenstein law. Secondly, Mr President, do not worry, because it is the PSD that will revisit this process, I have already said so long before you announce it. This process will be reviewed and this law, yes, will protect the more than 600 000 professionals and all those involved without exception, something in which you, alone and simply, have failed. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u166	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Hugo Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u167	You're going to answer now! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : They were so eager to hear the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group that they even said we would not intervene when we were already registered. Don't stop being curious. But replying directly to the question of the PSD Parliamentary Group, it is known and is public that there was a EUR 800 million tranche that was not transferred by this law has not been promulgated.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u169	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u170	I know that the Social Democratic Party has no responsibility and is not concerned about these 800 million euros. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u171	It's not true, it's not just that!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u172	Threatening orders, threatening cameras...!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u173	It is public: EUR 800 million has not been transferred from the PRR because this law has not been promulgated. And, yes, a party that is the largest party in the opposition should have more responsibility to not think that EUR 800 million is a value that the country can put aside. We know that yesterday, or yesterday, they talked about another important value, which is about high speed. They can also put that value in the trash. And, in this case, EUR 800 million is not a relevant value for this tranche, which is dependent on the approval of these diplomas. With regard to the importance of orders, competition and own actions, of course, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will continue to work to dignify these professions, competition and also the quality of public service. But there is one thing that the PSD Parliamentary Group can be sure of. After March 10, the PSD will not be leading this theme,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u174	It'll be enough! It'll have to be enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u175	...will be the Socialist Party, because the Socialist Party will win the elections on 10 March. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the interventions to the left of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias, a left-wing policy is to be against unpaid internships, to be against precariousness and to defend young people, defending the end of precariousness, defending the end of unpaid internships and defending access to the profession. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u176	They are the precariouss of the state!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u177	Mr. Paulo Moniz is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u178	It is to praise the previous intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u179	It is to ask the Bureau, Mr President, about the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u180	Please address the Bureau on the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u181	Mr President, I was going to ask for the Bureau's good offices to distribute a document containing public information: it is not only a goal of non-compliance with the diplomas of professional orders but three goals. Mr Hugo Costa has erroneously not informed the House of this, certainly for the sake of care. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u182	The honourable Member will send the relevant document to the Bureau and it will be 'circulated'. We now turn to point three of our agenda, which consists in the re-evaluation of Decrees Nos 97 / XV — Amendment to the Statute of the Order of Doctors and 111 / XV — Amendment to the Statute of the Order of Nurses. To speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I am not going to undertake the difficult exercise that Mr Cotrim Figueiredo here has performed by making his speech based on popular adagios. But look, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who during this legislature have heard from the right the criticism of the PS government of atavism now making criticisms before a reform. There's no better praise! It's the same thing to say that he's arrested for having a dog and being arrested for noting.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u184	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u185	And this well reveals what the PS has been saying. When the right one seeks to be an alternative to a particularly difficult file, what does the right one tell us? He says: "Well, since this is capable of bringing problems, it is better not to do anything. This is what we are hearing again today from the right side, that is, it is better not to do anything. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u186	But I wanted to remember here, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the reasons they are actually presiding over this reform. The first reason has nothing to do with the PRR, has to do with the national and international recommendations that were issued many years ago and that have finally seen the light of the day. That is why we realize that, on the one hand, we have a government that is progressive, that is not afraid, that does not give in to pressure, and that, on the other hand, we have a good image of what the right will be. On the PRR, in fact, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, if you ignore this, it is too obvious. The President of the Republic himself, in the presidential veto, refers to this circumstance. Just because of bad faith, presumption, or ignorance or ignorance, is that you can now say that the PRR means nothing to the development of our country. That is why we are here today too. Another note I want to mention has to do with the old narrative of those who have no arguments of substance and therefore goes into shape. Well, they don't want to discuss the substance, they don't say whether they agree or not, or rather, they say that it might be better to keep everything as it was. And so they go to the old question of form.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u187	Are you kidding? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u188	They say it's all running, it's all tangled up, it should have been different. Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, let's see, this is a process that started in the previous Parliament, we are now at the end, and what you were defending, as in other matters, was to stop—stop everything, stop everything that started in 2019! In addition, they say that this was a debate against orders. The Government made a first proposal, listened to the orders, Parliament worked on the Government's proposal, listened to the orders, and many of the proposals we are reviewing today are the result of contributions made by the Order of Nurses and the Order of Doctors. Doesn't this count for anything? Doesn't it count for anything? And now they come here to say that, after all, there was no dialogue! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u189	That's not true! He presented the proposal and then went to hear the orders!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u190	Hear the orders!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u191	The third question — and to conclude, Mr President — has to do with the presidential veto. It is because we have seen here today because in fact there has been a political veto, and on the political veto of Mr President of the Republic I have not heard any party say one word. For we have not missed this debate; we are here to say what we think, not only when we get it right. And on this subject, on the issue of the veto of a political nature, the PS has already left its position well and clearly: we are in favour of reform that protects, precisely in a more transparent way, the exercise of professions, regulates the exercise of professions, precisely to protect, from the very beginning, is a word for the younger ones. Where are the parties that make the singing of the siren for the younger ones, but that in this debate they stand on the opposite side? Where are they, gentlemen? Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u192	You use the younger ones as human shields!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u193	One last note, on the legal technicality which Mr President brings to his presidential veto, to say that we cannot wish, once again, Mr Deputy, « the sun in the air and rain in the nabal». Mr President of the Republic said, in his presidential veto, concerning the Order of the Nurses, that the proposal which was adopted in this House of the Republic was a proposal which called into question the complementarity between the professions. Mr. João Dias well knows what that is because, in the case of nurses, he is from the ladies. Members of the proposal that nurses can, for example, perform acts which, by the proposal of other parties, would become acts reserved for physiotherapists. We wanted, in our formulation, to ensure that nurses continued to do what they were doing so far and that, often, they are acts that overlap effectively and well in other professions. As far as doctors are concerned, Mr President of the Republic does not say the same thing anymore. You already say something different. It says that, after all, these acts overlap with the acts of other professions and that—see there! — questions the National Health Service ( SNS ). We want to tell the country, from here, of this Parliament, that the Socialist Party is a progressive party, it is a reform party, it is a party that does not yield to pressure, but, above all, it is a party that has defined its way and does not deviate from its way...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u194	That's true! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u195	...just because of the fact that I fear that society out there may, perhaps, think differently. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u196	It's on the edge of the abyss and take a step forward!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u197	For an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Pedro Frazão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u198	Mr. President of a few benches, Mr. Members : Start with an excellent year's vote for all Portuguese, because this is a year of great national challenges and it is of the greatest importance that we are all able to meet in order to meet Portugal. Mr President, allow me to have two more previous notes. The first to stress that we are re-appreciating the amendment to the Statute of the Order of Nurses and the Order of Doctors because the Socialist Government and the parliamentary majority that supports it have revealed a total lack of sense of state. They have adopted an antidemocratic legislative practice, characteristic of the worst socialist totalitarian regimes, having not heard the banks of arrive, nor the other political forces and much less civil society. We warned that this was wrong and that I was going back. The Socialists have drawn a red line to our warnings, but now, of course, they cannot do the same to the reality that is imposed. Now, Mr. Eurico Brilliant Days, here we are. The second note, Mr President of some benches, is that we cannot speak of the Order of Doctors and the Order of Nurses without looking at what is happening in hospitals and health centres, while we are here discussing today. As today, patients in Portugal have never been so deprived of basic health care. Today, the SNS is a real disaster, although we are well aware of Mr. Prime Minister's statements on Saturday, June 18, 2022, which said: « Part of the SNS problems will be solved next Monday ». Well, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, how many Mondays have you been through? I tell you, they spent 81 Mondays and nothing solved. But listen carefully, Mr Prime Minister, listen carefully: I am sure that next Monday, 11 March this year, the problems will have been solved by the Portuguese, through their vote. They'll solve the country's health problems. The problem is the Socialist Party and the resolution will be the election of a right-wing government led by André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u199	All right! [[PS Deputies Luís Soares.]] [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u200	Today, we all know that these amendments to orders are an attempt to control the freedom and independence of the most qualified civil society. Today, and here, we all know that, in the case of the Order of Doctors and the Order of Nurses, it is public and recognized its importance in the defense of the SNS, especially because they have always denounced the abandonment with which this government has subjected users for disregard and abused health professionals for pure revenge. Yes, Portuguese and professionals will never forget Antonio Costa's statements when he was caught by the Express lens calling doctors cowards.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u201	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u202	They will never forget Marta Feared to compare the nurses' unions with criminals who could not be negotiated with. They will never forget the current Minister of Health, Manuel Pizarro, who does nothing but close emergencies and maternity, calling it « management », as well as devalue tragic deaths due to lack of care, calling them only « isolated cases ». Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased to note that His Excellency the President of the Republic has subscribed to the concerns presented by the Party and has acceded to our request not to promulgate. If the PS and this absolute majority, in decomposition, persist obstinately in the gross approval of this legislation, the arrival commits itself, from now on, to completely reverse it. Freedoms of professional orders can never, never and at any time be protected by the power of the State. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u203	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Dias has now spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP has already said, throughout this legislative process, that this project has been screwed up. In fact, we've been here this afternoon too, and it's time to say that it's going from bullshit to bullshit to final bullshit. This is indeed the assessment that we can make, because we cannot forget something very important: the PS lost an opportunity—and clearly lost an opportunity—to correct the political options of the troika government, the PSD and the CDS, where at the time they were even militants who are now militants of the Arrival. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u205	Look, in the communists, on the far left, we've never been!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u206	There they are shouting again, Mr. President. That's what you know how to do, as soon as we identify your political connection with the PSD. The truth is that the PS has lost this opportunity to correct, preferring to go precisely in the direction of deepening this path of the PSD government's political options. Of course, the assessment we make is that the consequences of this legislative process are quite negative, from the outset, for the professionals who are covered, for those who want to access these professions, but also quite damaging to the citizens who naturally want to access such important and relevant services for their lives. What the PS brought here was an excuse, and it was not yet able to substantiate or justify, apologizing that the PRR was in issue. Well, if you were in charge of PRR's money, it's all your responsibility. Why didn't they do the legislation properly? We would not be here today to discuss this issue. Why didn't they legislate well? Why has this opportunity not been taken advantage of to correct what professional orders have always said? On the other hand, with regard to these amendments which the PS has tabled here, we can ask a very simple question: these are your amendments, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, is there any answer to the problems that have long been identified by professionals and by these orders? Not a single one is here! There were general considerations that the CFP has always presented and that Mr. Members have ignored these amendments, so the CFP voted against them all — in particular, you did not take into account the diversity of each of the associations, the characteristics of the profession, dealing equally with what was different and what was equal. Also with regard to the hearing of orders, what was expected was that the PS would, of course, first listen to the orders and then submit a proposal. No, he did everything the opposite! And, in fact, he did just to fulfill his timetable. He made me hear. He has heard the professional orders throughout this process. In particular, with regard to the diploma in question, both in relation to the Medical Order, and in relation to the Order of the Nurses, what we mean is the following: the act of the nurse, Mr. Louis Soares, consists not only of the diagnostic assessment, prognostic, but also of the power of prescription. It is that prescribing is not unique and exclusively pass a prescription.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u207	There you go!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u208	The prescription that is an act of nursing is the prescription of nursing care and you did not take this into account.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u209	There you go! There you go!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u210	And it is also very worrying about what has to do with complementarity. Yes, Mr President, in the health professions it is inevitable and there is complementarity between them. We can't run away from this, they have to be defined and the solution for functional complementarity has to be found. As regards the Order of Doctors — to conclude, Mr President — I would like to say the following: remove from the Order of Physicians what is an essential intervention, which has to do with the recognition of the suitability and the respective training capacity of the services is very worrying, because it compromises the quality of training of these professionals and compromises the care provided and care provided to the population. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u211	Good afternoon to all and to all. I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Members, officials and others present in this Chamber, wishing everyone a good year. For an intervention, Mrs Helga Correia, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u212	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As you could see this afternoon, the professional order process did not dignify the work done by this Parliament, but the responsibility of this process was the government. On the other hand, the disappointment of the Socialist Party in taking responsibility for the speciality, in the way it admitted that this process needed to be reviewed and reassessed, well showed the disorientation of the Socialist Party and the Government on this matter. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Social Democratic Party was very critical and critical of how the process was conducted by the government by various orders of reason. The first criticism is how this process was conducted, how it was drafted, everything in a single document, which created huge obstacles. A second criticism is the anti-democratic process developed by the government, giving only two days to order to speak, demonstrating institutional disrespect for professional orders. And a third criticism, Mr Luís Soares, is the way the parliamentary process went in the specialty. On 28 September Parliament was informed by an office by the Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs that it had to be voted on until 13 October by Brussels. Mr President, the President of the Republic warns, in his veto, but says he was aware of the political parties' statements of vote. It was good to read and understand things. I would also like to reaffirm that this process has shown the total institutional disrespect of the Government in front of the Assembly, which does not dignify parliamentary work, nor the Assembly of the Republic, but, as I said earlier, on the sole and sole responsibility of the Socialist Government. In total incompetence, in total disrespect by Parliament, the Government of António Costa and the Socialist majority that supports the Government has put and has set a timetable which has not respected the institutions, in fact, in a clear lack of respect for all professionals — more than 600 000 — and in a clear lack of respect, too, for Portuguese and Portuguese democracy. Because of the incompetence of the Government of António Costa, Parliament was manipulated by its ability to dialogue, to hear interested parties, to analyse and mature proposals, to analyse and mature the senses of vote. As we mentioned in the specialty, this process made in a hurry, on top of the knee, is not for the Social Democratic Party a closed process. We understand that dialogue with professional orders should be reopened in a timely manner in matters which do not result from European taxation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr President of the Republic warns that there is no safeguard of the public interest, nor does it contribute to the smooth functioning of the institutions. It also draws attention to the quality of medical care and the safety of patients, as well as to the organization and stability of the National Health Service itself. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD had indicated that it would reopen the proceedings and now this veto of the President of the Republic confirms this need. A reflection must be made on safeguarding the public interest and the functioning of the institutions. And we question where this safeguard of the public interest and the proper functioning of the institutions, or rather, where it has been in the last eight years of socialist governance. Let me say that instead of solving the specific problems of the National Health Service, which directly interfere with the lives of people, the government has shown inability to solve them, seeing the chaos and degradation of the National Health Service, with the closed emergencies, the endless queues for marking consultations, endless hours in emergencies, users without family doctors, waiting lists to increase. Unable to solve the specific problems of the National Health Service, the Government of Antonio Costa has focused, without dialogue — I reaffirm, without dialogue! — to withdraw competences to professional orders, which are public associations representative of professionals with competence to regulate access to the profession, it is true that. This is the portrait of the socialist de-government, which chooses to attack, as he points out, the power of the orders to the detriment of safeguarding the public interest and the good functioning of the institutions, in particular the National Health Service, thus leaving people behind. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u213	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u214	Madam President, whom I also wish for a good year, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In this regard, we are here at a note of the previous debate, first of all, with regard to the procedure. There are, however, two aspects in which all the statutes of professional orders differ, and which, contrary to what has been said by the Member of the PS Parliamentary Group, are fundamental issues, and not only in the form of the process, and which must be debated, which I would like to highlight. On the one hand, this proposal means a conditioning of the autonomy of nurses themselves, particularly in the dimension of training, something that the NAP cannot in any way validate. On the other hand, I recall that only in this amendment was the remuneration of the professional stages, a proposal presented by the NAP and that it was able to change within the scope of the statutes, in particular with regard to the professional stages of the Advocates' Order, but that, in the case of nurses, was not guaranteed. It is not acceptable that, when it is approved, and well, the remuneration for other students who do their professional training, thus ending with the precariousness of so many students in our country, it has not extended, in particular, to the component of undergraduate or nursing education cycles. Mr President, what are you going to say to these students? Are you going to say that, in fact, we're just talking about procedural matters? We have heard in your speech that the criticisms of the other parties have squeezed about this matter, but here are fundamental issues that need to be addressed. And I wonder if, in this process, they will be available to follow the NAP when we resume our proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u215	That doesn't apply to doctors, Mrs. Member!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u216	It is that we will be here, either in this process, or in the next legislature, to resume and insist on the end of unpaid professional internships, so that thousands of nursing students can effectively have access to these stages.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u217	This does not apply to doctors and nurses! It's the lawyers! [[PS Deputy Luís Soares Protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u218	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u219	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: On the debate we are having now, already in June 2023, and then again in July, in plenary, we had basically the same intervention, that is, that we were before, as we all said here, a perfectly shaken process. The proposed law that was at the time on the table for discussion was a true amalgamation of the various regimes, of the various orders, until, at certain times, in parts of this document, the social service of social workers was confused in the chapter reserved for the Order of Physiotherapists. Therefore, it was a great confusion that was presented. We also said that — and it is important to mention, because the Socialist Party likes to say that this has already come from the previous Parliament — that the Government had been able to present this proposal, so it would, with much more time than it has submitted and in dialogue with professional orders. It is that when we talk about the lack of dialogue, it is not the political parties who say so; it was the professional orders that came to say publicly that they did not have the time to evaluate, to present proposals, to make criticisms, etc. But in July 2023, despite all this process on the knee, the government, and the PS, guarantee that there would be time to do the specialty process, listening to everyone and all that would be necessary, without great haste. The truth is, it was July, it came in August and, in October, we were already discussing the final text, which we now have to appreciate. Therefore, what remains of this process is a total lack of respect, not only for the legislative process in the Assembly of the Republic, but above all a great lack of respect for several professionals, especially with health professionals, in this case doctors and nurses. What the Socialist Party wanted to do, because it lent itself to this role, was a fast-paced process, with amalgams, prioritizing the requirements of Brussels, apparently because of the PRR, and completely ignoring the needs of the country, especially doctors and nurses. That was the last note we wanted to leave. The truth is that, after all these debates and after all this completely shaken process that the government has made, the professionals, especially doctors and nurses, continue with extreme difficulties in the National Health Service, but to that, we already know, the Socialist Party does not want to give a single answer. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u220	The Bureau does not have any further inscriptions, therefore, we will turn to the fourth item on our agenda, which concerns the review of the Decrees of the Assembly of the Republic Nos 107 / XV — Amendment to the Statute of the Order of Advocates, 102 / XV — Amendment to the Statute of the Order of Appeals and Enforcement Officers and Law No 77 / 2013 of 21 November and 105 / XV — Legal Regime of Laws of Lawyers and Applicants. We do not have any requests to speak on this subject either. [[Pause.]] Mrs Paula Cardoso of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u221	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After this vast round about this by other professional orders I think it was very clear that the process that led us to this point and that led to the presidential veto speaks for itself as regards the shaky and even threatening form with which this whole process has been conducted. In the beginning, I have only one question and one question that I wanted to put directly to the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. After pressing us with a deadline, with a timing, with the money of the PRR, with several threats that have come up the table in order to overcome phases, not to listen to orders, to do this against and from backs to orders and other entities that should have been heard, the PS has now recognized that this subject must be reviewed. Well, if everything was done, and everything was perfect, if everything was so thoughtful, if everything was so competently prepared, if everything was done irreprehensibly, explain to me, in particular, what matters are going to revisit. I would like to know, in particular, what will be revised in the statutes of professional orders. The PSD recognises that there are sensitive issues, that there were reforms to be made, that the actions of professions, internships and access to professions should, in fact, be weighted but well thought-out. I leave, for the beginning of this discussion, the question: what are you going to revisit? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u222	Mr Alfredo Maia of the CFP Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u223	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The position of the CFP on the process of belonging, discussion and voting, in the speciality, of the statutes of public professional associations, which the Socialist Party itself, the only one to approve, acknowledged to be unworthy of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u224	Well remembered! You've forgotten!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u225	Different matters are the reasons put forward by Mr. President of the Republic to return to Parliament without promulgation, among others, the decree approving the Statute of the Advocates' Order. There is an objection to the remuneration of the traineeships of young people who want to enter the profession and who, like thousands of others, in this and most of the professions whose access requires the fulfilment of an enabling stage, are placed in a situation of real employment without any remuneration. The CFP is proud to be at the origin of the rule, Article 8. o -A of the Framework Law on Professional Orders, Law No. 12 / 2023, which precisely lays down the requirements for the remuneration of the internship: « Where the performance of the internships... ] implies... » — «... the performance of work, the trainee shall be guaranteed the remuneration corresponding to the duties performed ». (b) the activity is carried out by the trainee within the organisation and under the authority of the beneficiary. Do not keep on seeking. ” The decree approving the Statute of the Advocates'Order, which Mr President has now questioned, specifically in Article 195(7). the, I quote, 'Where the completion of the internship involves the provision of work, the trainee shall be guaranteed the remuneration corresponding to the functions performed, in value not less than the guaranteed minimum monthly remuneration increased by 25 % of its amount. Do not keep on seeking. ” We do not consider this rule to be so far from Law No 12 / 2023, without a public co-financing mechanism, as Mr President of the Republic claims, because from our point of view it is consistent with that diploma which does not, in fact, foresee — I stress, no! — any co-financing does not affect the organisation of the internships if they exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u226	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u227	On the other hand, as regards the concern of the Head of State regarding possible unfair competition, due to the open possibility of professionals from other professions carrying out various acts of the lawyers' own, the issue is really complex, acquiring greater accuracy within the framework of multidisciplinary societies that the law has taken into account, as the CFP has rightly warned. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u228	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u229	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Within this initiative, we must not fail to mention that we are proud of the fact that we have succeeded in putting an end to unremunerated professional internships. This is undoubtedly one of the great achievements of this legislature to end the precariousness of young professionals who enter the law and are forced to pay for work — a form of modern slavery. But with regard to the other amendments that have come to the tow of these initiatives, what does not satisfy us is, in fact, the way in which the Socialist Party, and the Government, eventually transposed the directive and somehow exceed those which are the limits of reasonableness in relation to the status. If we do not see: it is true that the commitments made with the European Union, particularly with the Commission, within the framework of the RPP, required the establishment of supervisory bodies. However, because of the way in which supervisory bodies are set up or as they include members who do not have training, such as the provider himself, or the simplification of matters within the stage, it becomes clear that this amendment and the concept of legal consultation itself have been extravagant and hampering the application, for example, of concepts such as 'illegal supply' or even 'truck', materials and illegal practices which are more easily identifiable and which, with this amendment, will hardly be able to be enforceable. On the other hand, as already mentioned, Mr President of the Republic was extremely critical because this amendment was not accompanied by a co-financing mechanism. In the case of professional internships, the NAP insists again: we must ensure that professional internships are accompanied by funding from the IEFP (Instituto do Employo e Formation Professional) because we have lawyers who do not have the same financial capacity as lawyers. Therefore, in the next legislature we must go further in the context of these amendments and also ensure support for lawyers who want to continue to be good professionals and good employers for our country's future lawyers, but for this they must have the IEFP next to them to ensure that this same possibility of internship.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u230	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u231	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was interesting if we had the Minister of Justice here today to discuss this issue. Among the priorities for the justice sector, it was not a priority to increase the remuneration of judicial officers, who still remain without seeing the recovery allowance being paid 14 months a year; it was not a priority to respond to the legitimate request of social reintegration technicians because their career was not reviewed; it was not a priority of a set of matters that were essential to bring, in fact, a justice close to the people, to optimize their functioning and ensure that economic barriers ceased to exist. This was not a priority, then, what was the priority? The priority was to create confusion and, goes on, the Socialist Party decided to create a maximum confusion within justice with the orders of both the applicants and the lawyers. There are things we can say that were necessary and incontrovertible. I think there are things that are obvious: it doesn't make sense the internship lasts so long and it doesn't make sense we don't expect the payment of this internship. Obviously, in the middle of the 21st century, the payment of work must exist, otherwise it is slave work and often there is slave work in lawyers' offices. from then on to what it withdraws from being correct in the definition of acts itself, to predict multidisciplinary societies—which, in fact, are a way of withdrawing responsibilities even deontological to societies—well, it is a giant step that has been promoted by the Socialist Party and which, for us, is incomprehensible. Could there be solutions? I could, but thanks to the Socialist Party and the Minister of Justice, we have only complications in justice. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u232	For an intervention, Mrs Joana Sá Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u233	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are about to conclude this sequence of reviews of decrees which have been vetoed by Mr President of the Republic and the first conclusion, which is simple to take along these hours in which we are discussing, is that the majority — but all — of the parliamentary groups have been busy discussing the form and process relating to this reform of professional orders and none of them has even been able to point to a single problem in the content of this reform of the law of professional orders.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u234	All right! That's it! [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão and BE Member Pedro Filipe Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u235	This leads me to believe, ladies and gentlemen. Members, which is a well-reformed reform and which, therefore, the parliamentary groups will reconsider their position on the content of these proposed statutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u236	Have you been sleeping in the sixth grade? Have you been oohing? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u237	The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group started this path — and it is important that we talk on the way — in 2009, therefore four years ago, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u238	2019!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u239	We didn't start discussing this last week, not even a month ago, we started in 2019. This is part of the Election Programme of the Socialist Party of 2019 and we basically had three purposes with this reform. The first purpose was to organically separate the supervisory function and the disciplinary function from the function of representation and defense of the interests of the professionals, which was clearly achieved. The second purpose was to attenuate some protectionism that existed in the entry into some professional orders with the existence of unjustified barriers to access to the profession. It was a manifestly achieved goal. And the third and final purpose was to strengthen the means for the exercise of two powers which, for us, are fundamental, which is the power of supervision and the power of discipline. Those powers, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, they remain untouchable...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u240	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u241	... and are exercised by professional orders.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u242	Liar! You have to have political commissioners!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u243	This is the subject, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was not just an innovation of the Socialist Party. Since 2011 the European institutions, the Competition Authority and the OECD have been alerting our country successively to the importance of removing these obstacles in access to the profession.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u244	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u245	And what did the government do that had this opportunity, in this case, the Government of the Democratic Social Party and the CDS? He took the reform in 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014, and put it in the drawer.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u246	I was paying debts!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u247	So he took a very clear option in this regard, which was to put the reform in the drawer. On this reform, some prophecies have been drawn up that we like to remember and demonstrate how they all capitulate. The first prophecy was that this reform was deeply unconstitutional. In fact, it was a prophecy even shared by Mr. President of the Republic and which was tremendously opposed and contradicted by the Constitutional Court, which not only said that there is no true constitutional right to self-regulation, but also called into question the existence of some professional orders. It's worth it, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, on this occasion, I would like to repeat the Constitutional Court's judgment and also to take a look at the clues that you are giving us. Judges left us. The second prophecy is a second mantra, which is repeated by the Liberal Initiative, that the Socialist Party did only this reform because it wanted to receive funds from Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u248	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u249	There is a problem, Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva : is that, in 2019, when we put this in the Electoral Programme of the Socialist Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u250	There was no PRR!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u251	... there was no PRR, unless they assigned the PS the ability to anticipate a pandemic and the PRR. Therefore, it was impossible, in 2019, when we put this in the Electoral Program of the PS,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[IL protests.]] ...to have the ability to predict that we would receive funds associated with this reform and therefore this prophecy also has no reason to be.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u252	It's not prophecy, it's reality!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u253	The third prophecy is that it was the end of the rule of law. This prophecy was repeated successively by the PSD and the Arrival, which was the end of the rule of law. Until today, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, he's not done yet. On the Statute of the Advocates' Order, I would like to give four examples, and I can see the melindre of the opposition, because today it is faced with a choice you have to make regarding the content of this Statute. I will give four examples, in fact — and I understand how difficult it is to justify — the doubt why they will vote against this. First example: what is here, in this statute? The end of the duplication of theoretical content at the stage of counseling. For us, it is very clear that universities teach and orders enable the practical exercise of a given profession and therefore there is an end to this duplication of these theoretical contents. The second example is that the end of the evaluative element, which dealt with, recalls, the contents that were already given by universities. And what do we do when we end this evaluative content? We strengthen and encourage the practical stage. This, yes, should be the central core of the stage of access to professional orders. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Third example: paid internships. On this we say something that, for us, was clear and we thought it was evidence for the whole House, that is, when there is work, when there is effective work, there must be an associated remuneration. I don't understand why some of you are. Members have difficulty voting in favour of something which is clear, which is by meridian clarity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] We cannot say that we are against precariousness and then vote against measures like these.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u254	And who pays? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u255	Last example: we anticipate the possibility of a law degree who is not registered in the Advocates' Order to carry out a legal review of a specific problem. I think this is also of meridian clarity. Finally, Madam President, there is indeed a big difference between the PS bench and the Democratic Social Party bench. To reform and move forward, the Portuguese know they can count on the Socialist Party. It was so in professional orders,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u256	It went well!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u257	... so it was in the creation of the SNS, so it was in the reform of renewable energies and apparently so it will be with the reform of high speed.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u258	High speed? Oh, my God! You've been talking about it for 20 years!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u259	And they also know that on the side of the PSD, on the right side, what they count on is to walk back or to block reforms that are structural and important to the country. So there is a very clear choice to make on Friday, Madam President :...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u260	It's voting in Enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u261	...is choosing which side we want to be on, whether we want to be on the side of corporateism or whether we want to be on the side of reformism. For us, the choice is very clear, Madam President. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u262	Mr Pedro Pinto, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u263	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It does not cease to be curious that, in October last year, when we had this debate here, it has been done only at one item on the agenda and we are now going to the third. And it was done only on one point for a very simple reason: because a mess of the Socialist Party was mounted, that mess that was made in a hurry,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u264	Go on, go on!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u265	... with motions for amendments whose votes would last 12 hours—and, if anyone knows that, it is Mrs Joana Sá Pereira who should seriously have said this to this plenary. In addition, it was a vote and a debate held under deplorable conditions. It was nice that the Socialist Party, once in life—I repeat: once in life! — come here to this plenary and say: « We have failed. We have failed, clearly». This was a total failure, a total error of the Socialist Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u266	Total, total!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u267	... that has only one goal, which is to put your hand,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u268	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u269	...the third or fourth hand, the ones you want, in professional orders.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u270	That's right, that's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u271	Tell people the truth, which is: they want to get their hands on professional orders...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u272	To control!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u273	...to control, but also, and besides, to, in the future, end professional orders.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u274	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u275	This is the great truth of the Socialist Party and it does not tell the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u276	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u277	That is why there is no minister of this government here, who is certainly going through the country campaigning with Mr. Pedro Nuno Santos, who is not present either, because he must go campaigning, to "sell the tub of the snake" by the country. The PS wants to punish those who face them.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u278	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u279	Professional orders... [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] Mr. Member, write on Twitter at 4:00 a.m. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Professional orders face the Socialist Party, and Antonio Costa and this Socialist Party do not admit that. That's the great truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u280	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u281	PS failed and wants to insist on error. You bring this issue back here today, because you want to insist on the mistake. It is a total mistake of the Socialist Party. This veto was the greatest defeat of the Socialist Party and the Government of Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u282	All right! Truth, truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u283	They want to condition freedom of order and political control. This is called "socialist evil". It is not enough to say this: "Advocates accuse the PS of legislative evil and admit judicial reaction to new status. » The speaker read the title of the news. [[PS MP Joana Lima's protests.]] They're the lawyers who say! It's Mrs. Barnage of the Lawyer's Order. Legislative irresponsibility! Repeat: Irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u284	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u285	The Socialist Party is irresponsible. This is the great truth.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u286	Totally!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u287	And more: today, you should say seriously, Mrs Deputy, what you want to do in order. Today, they arrived here and said, "We want to do this, that and that."
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u288	We want to finish!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u289	But they do not say and should earnestly say: “We want to end the orders. Oh, orders are uncomfortable for us, orders tell us things we don't want to hear. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u290	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u291	But the PS doesn't say that. It was enough to appeal to Mr. President of the Republic for this veto and, fortunately, Mr. President of the Republic has vetoed it. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] And you know what the veto says? The veto thus says, as regards the reduction of traineeship time, among other things, from 18 to 12 months: '(...) only three Member States' — in 27 — 'have stages with the same or lower duration. Moreover: « The possibility now granted to other non-legal professionals to practice acts before their own lawyers seems to introduce a possibility of unfair competition(...) ». It is the veto of the President of the Republic that says so, Mrs Deputy. The speaker read the document he referred to. Let's be serious, let's tell people the truth. Today we also had the Liberal Initiative that I didn't want to talk about. He spoke in the first intervention and then: "Ah, the popular saying, very beautiful, popular wisdom. » The Liberal Initiative does not want to speak, because it abstained in the vote. They abstained, they had no courage to vote against, as did the Arrival and as did the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u292	Exactly! Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u293	That is why they wanted to go next to the debate today, but we do not forget. In conclusion, we have already heard Mr Hugo Costa say that 800 million PRR have not been transferred. It was because of the incompetence of the Socialist Party. Say this: it was out of total incompetence, because they let go of time, spend time, then they wanted to do everything, everything, all in a hurry and it was a total mess. It's your incompetence, just yours, no one else.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u294	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u295	You have not fulfilled what you have said to the Portuguese and are again preparing to fail to do so. Moreover, Mr Luís Soares — I do not know where he is, must walk around — says that the opposition speaks in a debate against orders. It's not the opposition that talks, it's the professional orders that say it. It's the professional orders that say so. You are against orders, but we will not allow that to happen in the future. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u296	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Cardoso of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u297	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I just wanted to emphasize that my question was not answered, in fact, that...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u298	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u299	... they will review in due course, after this legislation is approved. Once again, Mrs Joana Sá Pereira came to say that this was a well done reform, that it is all well done and that everything was very well analysed. So you're going to come back to see what? You're going to see what? As for the 800 million PRR, in whose receipt it is so claimed that we will be harmed, I remember that Portugal has already applied for four payment applications to the PRR and therefore has already received anything like 6 billion, about 7 billion PRR.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u300	6 billion!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u301	However, it only gave its beneficiaries about 3000 million and a half. So you have in your wallet, in the bank, collected and by distributing 3000 million. So distribute there these 3000 million that have been kept there and do this reform calmly,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u302	What about the debt? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u303	... make this reform with head, trunk and members, listening to orders, people and professionals. This is about access to the profession of many people and the future of many young people in this country, it is not to do so, « on the knee». And don't say that we didn't want to know about the veto of the President of the Republic or that we had nothing to point to. We had something to point at the content and we pointed at what we had to point out. Many of the alerts that have been made in the discussion are exactly the issues that are recommended and which are put by Mr President of the Republic, and the honourable Member, with the intellectual honesty I recognize her, knows that it is true what the PSD pointed out in relation to remuneration. The PSD is in favour of the remuneration of the internships, if the internships are work. What the PSD says is that these stages must be paid, like any other professional stage, from any other profession, using the public funds of the IEFP,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u304	...because otherwise, they will prejudice more access to the profession than they will benefit. If you're in the real world and if you've ever practiced counseling, you know that what I'm saying is true. This is what the PSD said it would have to be thought about. Tell me, then, that I would even give you time for mine, if I had it — what you're going to see again, what I'm curious about. They distribute there the 3,000 million they have in portfolios and leave the 800 million there, because they have six months to present evidence and to receive them. Take advantage of these six months to make a law in condition. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u305	The Bureau has no further inscriptions on this agenda item. Therefore, we will move to point five: Setting the agenda, required by the PS, on representation of interests, with discussion of the Bills No. 994 / XV / 2. a ( PS ) — Approves transparency rules for private entities performing legitimate representation of interests with public entities and establishes a transparency register for representation of interests with the Assembly of the Republic, 252 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Regulates the lobbying activity and establishes a Register of Transparency and a Mechanism of Legislative Sticky, making the first amendment to the Organic Law No 4 / 2019 of 13 September and the sixth amendment to Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March 995 / XV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Approves transparency rules applicable to private entities performing legitimate representation of interests with public entities and establishes a transparency register of representation of interests with the Assembly of the Republic and 996 / XV / 2. a (IL) — Regulates the lobbying activity in Portugal and establishes the Public Power Transparency System. To submit Bill No. 994 / XV / 2. a, from the PS, has the floor Mr Pedro Delgado Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u306	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have returned in this debate to a topic that has been in the Assembly of the Republic since at least 2015, up to a background at several conferences and events organised here in the Assembly of the Republic. As part of the work of the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, one of the topics on the agenda, by then the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, was precisely the regulation of the activity of representation of interests. What is recognized is that it is an activity that takes place today in a framework where there is no specific regulation, and there are numerous doubts and the need for clarification of matters relating to the transparency of contacts with public entities and also the need for monitoring and follow-up, for the protection of such entities, in relation to contacts with citizens or entities representing interests they seek to develop with them. in this context, this legislative work of the XIII legislature, a veto of the President of the Republic requesting a strengthening of matters and a strengthening of the scope of the legislation then approved, declared the return to this Chamber of the matter, and unfortunately it was not possible to conclude the legislative procedure, adopting necessary amendments to the matter. In 2019, this process was completed in the new Parliament, and legislative initiatives were again presented and once again sought to build a consensual text, as consensual as possible, cautioning the strengthening of transparency in this reality. Unfortunately, also in this Parliament, the dissolution of Parliament prevented this debate from continuing. [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]] Indeed, throughout this period, since 2015, it has been included in the electoral programmes of the Socialist Party, until 2015, later reinforced also with enlargement to the matter of the legislative footprint and it is a matter that today is contained in the National Strategy for Combating Corruption as an additional tool, relevant to the realization of this desire for greater transparency. over these years, there have been hearings, conferences, gathering dozens of opinions suggesting and proposing amendments to this matter, in such a way that today, the text presented here is the result of a work not of a few weeks or a few months, but of several years and several contributions by civil society and by several stakeholders in which this matter is read out — or for the first time — a regulatory framework. in this context, it would highlight the main innovations that in 2023 it is still possible to add and introduce in a project that already knows several previous developments and that relate precisely to the clarity as to the purpose that is intended to continue here. to regulate an activity that takes place between us, in the European Union, in almost all Western democracies, the main purpose is not to create any privileged formula or easy access to public decision makers. This is, moreover, to ensure that it is absolutely clear and absolutely clear that there is a mechanism of transparency and control of how interaction with public decision-makers takes place. And it therefore seems appropriate to us to expressly enter this: the inclusion of someone in a transparency register may not give you any privileged or facilitated access in contact with a public institution. On the other hand, it also becomes increasingly evident that those who are professionally engaged in activities representing third-party interests should be registered when their social object covers this reality. In the projects presented in 2015 it was a path that the Socialist Party was tracking; in the consensus that was constructed the subject matter was not so detailed, but it seems to us important that this principle be affirmed. The register of transparency, whether it is installed where it is, should necessarily include all those who are professionally engaged in this activity. Thirdly, it is also important to recognize that all those who are involved in the representation of interests are very varied. It involves, as we had the opportunity to discuss earlier, also those who do the social consultation activity. Many of the social partners — in fact, it is sufficient to consult the European Union's register of interests to verify that trade unions, employers' organisations — of course are also included there, and in our scheme it is proposed that they be officially registered in the system, in the register of representation of interests. However, in cases where this is not the case, it should be noted that their communication by the missing entities is quickly corrected and that they become part of the register quickly. Fourthly, we have the teaching—and this is perhaps one of the most recent teachings of the European experience itself—that is learned by how the lobbying system itself at the level of the European Union had to evolve and faced the difficulties it faced. [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]] The issue of access to the facilities of the European institutions was one of the most critical aspects, identified within the framework of the so-called Catargate and which led to the idea that there is privileged access or the possibility of free and uncontrollable movement in the premises of sovereign bodies or other decision-making bodies should be clearly rejected and there should be no room for such institutions, even if they wish, to create an facilitated system of movement and access. Finally, a transitional regime is also necessary: we well know the constraints that we are having in this debate at the end of the legislature, we know that it is important for the first time to seek a solution that will allow, after many years, to have a regime that strengthens transparency and guarantees that follow-up, but we should not be insensitive to the need of institutions to have a time to adapt to this reality and, therefore, we have enough openness with regard to the possible construction of a transitional regime, which alerts who must be initially covered, and in order to build a gradual application to all categories of public entities that are concerned. in this sense, the challenge we have launched to the benches that have come to this debate today with their proposals and that have tried constructively to contribute to this debate, is that we still try, at the end of this legislature, to offer something that has been discussed in this Parliament, not two or three years ago but almost a decade ago, from the moment that for the first time here has been organized and promoted a conference, within the framework of the academic work that has been taking place on this subject. We are aware that not all problems of transparency with lobbying regulations are solved. But we certainly know what all the academics, all the civic organisations who are involved in this issue tell us — that we will have a better legislative framework and that we will have a stronger quality of democracy from the moment we have this possibility. It's not a magic bullet, but it's probably a tool we've needed for several years now. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u307	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. To make this request for clarification, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u308	Mr President, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, the question I would like to ask you on this subject is not about the content itself, but about how it is presented. On the content, I'll have one more step forward. You know about our differences, as far as this claim to legislate to legalize business offices is concerned, you also know how this topic falls into public opinion, and even the arrival made an agenda...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u309	The obsession with arriving!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u310	You're so ignorant! Even it's hard to hear!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u311	I wonder what motivated the Socialist Party to, at least one week or a week from the last plenary session of this Parliament, bring this diploma to discussion. [[CH protests.]] We read in the social communication that the Socialist Party was bringing the debate, but said it would hardly conclude. He said in his speech that he wanted to finish something by next week. Now, I am going to make a simple account of the Parliamentary issue, for people to realize what this means: this diploma is being discussed today, but at the will of the Socialist Party it will not be voted on today; it will be voted on next Friday; it will be approved, at least with the votes of the Socialist Party, it will come down to the Commission — the Bureau will tell what the Commission is going to be down — and the Commission will have to incorporate this diploma into its agenda, something which is also launched on Friday, for a meeting next week. To do what? In order, on the agenda, to say how we are going to do the specialty process and then to ask the parliamentary groups who will decide on it. And then, for weeks later, it would be to mark hearings, proposals for amendment, vote on amendments and then, months later, the overall final vote. The last plenary session of this Parliament is Thursday next week and therefore the « next day » is 24 hours after the Commission meeting. I ask you when will this debate be held? I'm afraid I know the answer. of the two, one : or what I said there was just to entertain, is for people to realize that this scheduling is not merely a proforma to occupy space; or the PS will impose, with its absolute majority, a complete abolition of a normal process, of the specialty of this diploma.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u312	Of course that's it, of course that's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u313	On the other hand, what is the political objective of this debate? I understand, from the normal agitation of the Arrival, that you always want to connect the cases that are happening to a matter of any lack of legislation. But I ask the Socialist Party if that's what you think happens. Is Lacerda Machado accused by the Public Prosecutor's Office a case of lack of legislation? What is the lack of legislation here? Is it thought that the interests he represented were legitimate and, therefore, legitimize his performance and say that the Public Prosecutor’s Office is not right in this matter? Or is it saying "no, it is very bad what he did because, in fact, he is already being accused apparently of a crime, the crime of traffic of influences"? Is that what? Are some of the people who have spoken to ministers have spoken improperly? Is that what the PS thinks, and therefore thinks that it should be even more aggravated by what the Public Prosecutor is doing? Or, on the contrary, does he say that what is missing is a legal coverage so that there is no doubt that what happened is really legal? It is that, politically, I cannot perceive the objectives of the Socialist Party. I only see one — and I have already said it when we did the debate marked by the Arrival, in December of the year that ended —: only and only give to this petition of the extreme right... [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u314	... and, in the pong-pong with the extreme right, think that by valuing the extreme right the PS is valued. But whoever loses everything about this, Mr. Deputies, it's democracy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u315	To reply, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u316	Give it to him, Pedro! Give it to him!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u317	Mr President, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, thank you very much for the questions, because they once again allow us to clarify several aspects that are relevant, starting with the first word you used: it is not about legalizing an activity, it is about regulating an activity that is being carried out today.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u318	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u319	It is conducted in Portugal, Brussels, Washington, Madrid, Berlin, Paris, and is carried out without due transparency, without the proper possibility of scrutiny, which is what this initiative cautions. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] And what the precautionary initiative is not only translated into the proposals that are here, because the associations that are dedicated to monitoring these matters of transparency, all of them, for many years, recommend that Parliaments should regulate this activity, creating formulas so that it can control who in the decision-making process has contacted the public decision makers. Therefore, what is lacking is standards, so that this reality is no longer opaque, as in some jurisdictions, in some Member States, and that it is benefiting from the same regime with which, in fact, all parties sitting in this Parliament who have access to the European Parliament, live together and with which they have no difficulty, because they know that in order to contact the representative of an NGO (non-governmental organization), a trade union or any representative of an interest, they have to register and it has to be previously registered. It's something they work with without difficulty and they know. Therefore, the political objectives of this agenda are, of course, to recover a 2015 initiative! Again, this is not something that was born today, last week, or two months ago, in this House. This is something that has long been decided by this Parliament. But, above all, what we want to ensure is that this issue, because of its importance for democracy, is not hostage to populists.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u320	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u321	And that is precisely the opposite of what you are saying, because it is the work done throughout several legislatures, and collecting contributions from civil society, which ensures that what you are trying to do here is not going to the taste of any wind blowing to take advantage of a ride, to try to make a political number like the one we have seen here in December, but truly give an opportunity to all the parties and all those who have come to the game today — the PSD, the Liberal Initiative and the NAP, I think they share this objective — to do this seriously and with the proper weighting that is necessary for this.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u322	in a week?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u323	And going to your last question: how is this legislative procedure done? Again, this wasn't born last week, it wasn't born last month. All these processes were the subject of perhaps the largest number of contributions received in two rounds, from the work of the XIII Legislation, because there was not only an initial request for opinion, as the final text was once again the subject of the opinion of all those who were represented in the social consultation, by representative entities of the various sectors that contributed and participated. They participated in the previous legislation and even in this: the process began with the project presented by the...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u324	For the PAN!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u325	... PAN, for example, which has received contributions from several other mandatory partners, such as the autonomous regions and others. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] We therefore believe that the fact that it is difficult does not make it impossible. We recognize that it is difficult to conclude this legislative procedure in due course, but we want to try to do so, and that means recognizing that there has been work for several years that can be taken advantage of. We understand that if there is consensus on the rest of the boards, we can try to conclude this legislative procedure still in this legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u326	To submit Bill No. 252 / XV / 1. a, of the NAP, has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u327	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the public present in the galleries: Let us begin by welcoming the PS initiative, which allows us to bring here an initiative which the NAP has already presented a year and a half ago and whose contributions do not only cover this legislation. As has already been mentioned since the XIII Parliament that it has been a subject of wide debate, with profound contributions. Therefore, it is not at all impossible for this discussion to be made seriously, taking advantage of the contributions that have so far been given to this Assembly of the Republic. We must not forget that recent cases, such as those which have come to the public, emphasize the importance of regulating lobbying activity, which cannot be confused, as we heard the Left Block defending, with the decriminalization of the traffic of influences, at all. We are talking about regulating an activity that already exists in our country, which must be understood seriously and which must even be democratized, because we cannot forget that it is not only those who have the most power and influence that must be able to reach public power—we must guarantee all citizens that same right. When I speak in all citizens, I speak, for example, about associations of animal protection, environmental protection, human rights, among many other examples that I could give. It is essential, above all, that the citizen know who sits at the political decision-making table with whom the political decision-makers met.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u328	And you don't know today? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u329	It is essential that there is a legislative footprint, that there is more transparency. It is paradoxical that companies in the European Parliament have to register and we have Portuguese lobbyists who are registered in the European Parliament, but do not register in Portugal. For the NAP, there are two fundamental amendments: on the one hand, that former Members who are engaged in lobbying are also registered; on the other hand, that the contributions of the Advocates' Order themselves are accepted and that the criticisms made by the latter are respected, so that these same contributions are taken into account in this register and registration. In fact, I note that the International Transparency Authority itself welcomed these proposals submitted by the NAP and that in the previous Parliament several opinions also followed these measures. in this sense, we are fully available for work in the specialty, to find a common path, thus ensuring the various contributions that have been given. Today, in fact, it is difficult to understand that, outside, none of our fellow citizens knows what the road that has been going through a certain legislative initiative,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u330	You don't know? Oh, my God! It's just going to the Assembly of the Republic website!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u331	... that there is no such regulation, whether at European level or at national level, and that we are not able to mitigate this inconsistencies that still persist and that, in some ways, it only prejudices, above all, public money, investment and the credibility of institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u332	How is that possible? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u333	To submit Bill No. 995 / XV / 2. a, from the PSD, has the floor of Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u334	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Transparency has long been a priority for the PSD. We understand that transparency must also be redoubled and strengthened when we talk about the framework leading to political decisions and legislative processes. We therefore present this initiative for the regulation of lobbying and for the creation of a register of transparency of representation of interests to Parliament. We understand that it is essential to draw a line that distinguishes the crime of trafficking from the legitimate representation of interests. The recent events in the Government and the alleged existence of meetings with a view to influencing members of the Executive to accelerate certain processes demonstrate well that it is essential to adopt rules and create a transparent, well-defined and secure legal context for participation and representation of interests. It is important to promote transparency in all interactions with public and private entities,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u335	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u336	... in all structural decision-making processes of the Government, direct and indirect administration of the State, the Assembly of the Republic and the local authority. It is important to listen to people, to get more extensive, deeper information, to build more balanced decision-making and legislative processes and to adjust to reality, increasing their quality and effectiveness. With our initiative, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we intend to implement this regulation of lobbying with public entities that produce structural decisions for the country's life. We propose a model based on principles of transparency, responsibility, openness, completeness, formality, trust, ethics and equal access. The model operates with two mechanisms: a system of registration of representatives of interests and a public agenda of interactions between public institutions and representatives of legitimate interests. The first shall be a public and free registration system, accompanied by a code of conduct, similar to what has already happened with the European Parliament and the European Commission. The second shall be a public registration system of all interactions between public entities and representatives of legitimate interests. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we want this legal regime to be a first step towards more demanding future regulation and associated sanctions.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u337	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u338	The measures we now advocate are progressive in their scope and effect, with a view to gradually ensuring the maximum level of transparency in relations between citizens, companies and decision makers. We also intend to ensure that all interests have an equal opportunity to be known and weighted in equal circumstances. unlike other initiatives, our application applies to all bodies, to all departments of the autonomous administration, regional administration and the autonomous administration. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with our initiative we propose an open and transparent model of participation, a model that will enable recipients to be informed about all the procedures for the formation of public decisions and to increase the levels of confidence of citizens in their decision makers, strengthening the democratic legitimacy of their actions. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u339	To submit Bill No. 996 / XV / 2. a, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor Mr Rodrigo Saraiva.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u340	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Liberal Initiative said 'present' in this debate, as on 21 December, when we went up to this forum to defend the regulation of the representation of interests, or the regulation of the lobby. Therefore, before going to the concrete discussion of the four proposals that are being debated today, let me — I will have to do — mention some parts of the intervention we made on 21 December, which demonstrate why we believe that the lobby should be regulated in Portugal: 'Whoever defends transparency, regulation and equal opportunities can only be in favour of the lobby's regulation, i.e. recognition of the legitimate representation of interests. ; « Access to public decision-makers should not be privileged, it should be democratised, strengthening the mechanisms of scrutiny and transparency. by doing so, we defend the public interest. The representation of interests, which is legitimate, should not be monopolies or oligopolies. 'Associations and entities representing interests have all the legitimacy to meet with public decision makers and to explain their problems, challenges and views. That does not mean that the decision maker will decide in your favor. ; « This access must be regulated, must be registered, must be left to be caught, in order to realize that acts have influenced a decision or the presentation of a particular bill. ; « The defence of interests with public office holders is a right. » ; « We know that the so-called lobby already exists in Portugal and will continue to exist, only occurs outside the public eye, behind a curtain. This must be changed so that it happens in an open, competitive, transparent and democratic manner. Do not keep on seeking. ” These were parts of the intervention we made here on 21. We were then surprised. Already in this debate, the Socialist Party announced that it would make a legislative agenda, and also in that debate we said that we did not believe that a legislative process could be carried out in this legislature to have a comprehensive final vote on a common text for lobbying regulation. Here we are today and we continue to not understand—and this is the question that must be asked by the Socialist Party — why this insistence on saying today that it is possible, when it is not, but because the Socialist Party thus demonstrates an inconsistency. It is also in December 15 that we had a debate on the implementation of the clearing circle as a reform of our electoral system through the legislative agenda of the Liberal Initiative. It was not to make a new law; it was to go to an existing law, add a circle of compensation, make a process of specialty, in time to debate whether that circle should be with 40, 30 or 20, close a common text and then enable the Portuguese, on 10 March, to vote with the circle of compensation already in the electoral system. The Socialist Party voted against, saying that it was not possible: "The timing! We even agree with the benefits of the clearing circle, but there is no time. We will not now make changes running until the end of the legislature ». Then we arrive here today and we have the PS to want the creation of a new law, regardless of all the legislative processes that have already existed and that must be taken into account. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] The four texts here today consider this. But now to do so within a week is not possible, as has already been demonstrated in this debate. Therefore, they cannot count on the Liberal Initiative for a running process, until the nuances and differences between the bills that are here today show that it is not enough just a meeting to run in a committee to close a common text. Let us look at the proposals. Obviously, the four, as I have already said, respect the legislative procedures that have already taken place. They respect and inspire themselves in them, and that is a good sign, because it means that the current parliamentary representation respects the previous legislatures. They also respect the views of the President of the Republic when he made the veto which has already been mentioned here. But there are differences. The Socialist Party and the Social Democratic Party, for example, find that the registration must be based in the Assembly of the Republic ; the Liberal Initiative and the NAP think it should be in the Transparency Entity. We understand, for example, that even procedures relating to public procurement — which also have their own legislation, which safeguards a set of things — should be considered in lobby legislation, because we believe that everything that is public decisions must be at the height of representation of interests. Then, for example, the NAP bill has relevant contributions, in particular by intervening already in legislation of the Entity itself for Transparency, which should be considered and discussed in speciality, until the NAP project has positive things, but also has negative things. There are more differences between the various projects. For example, in relation to registration data, there are parties who believe that the data must be one and there are others who go further, even to a permanent voyeurism of what concerns the very nature of the institutions that must register. Even when it comes to sanctions, there are those who go further and, there, create disproportionateities here. This must be discussed, but not at a committee meeting next week, so that we can vote on a text in a hurry. Everything we defend serves for any kind of entity, especially the associations, which legitimately defend and represent interests, whether a business association, whether a sectoral association, or even a union, which is an excellent example of what the lobby is, and very well, it must be regulated and be beyond what is part of social consultation, all with the same rights and duties. Yes, the lobby exists, the lobby is legitimate, it must be regulated, it must be democratized and there must also be no monopolies and oligopolies here. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u341	We have concluded the presentation of the various legislative initiatives of the various parliamentary groups and now we move on to the period of intervention. To that end, Mr Ventura of the Parliamentary Group of the European Union has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u342	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After arriving in December, for a well-founded and serious debate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u343	Really? Oh, my God! Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u344	... the regulation of lobbying, the Socialist Party, of course, took advantage to make the obvious, which was « ai, we do not want because it is from the Arrival; then, we will do in January».
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u345	Serious debate...? Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u346	But the PS does it in January for one reason: he wants to wash his face, because, in fact, the government has fallen because of these ill-defined interests, poorly clarified,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u347	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u348	...because the best friend, actually, had been hired to go distribute interests. Therefore, the government, which was in « getting used to, will be four years », fell because the best friend was hired to do this kind of interest management. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] And then the PS has the best solution. And what is the best solution? « Let's move forward with this, for a great reason». And the Portuguese ask, which one? "We will not be able to complete the legislative process. And so we're gonna get the best of intentions, but we know nothing's gonna change. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr. Members of the Socialist Party, there is a saying that he was already a Roman, and that I will tell you to stay in your ear : « Of good intentions is the full hell» and, at this moment, you are the hell of the Portuguese, in this matter. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]] In fact, it is not by chance that with some restraint and some salt the news says: "PS insists on lobbying regulation, but recognizes that the time is short to complete the process. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[CH's laughs.]] [[At this moment, the speaker displays the newspaper news.]] This is the national comedy! You are now here saying that you want to regulate something that Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves has said since 2015 that it is the heritage of the PS! [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u349	We're waiting for them to ask for a power schedule!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u350	I don't know what Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves means by "this is the PS's heritage", but there is one thing we know: the evil that non-regulation has done has been the PS's heritage to destroy democracy. It's been PS's heritage to destroy democracy. [[PS protests.]] In fact, it is necessary to say this: the PS, which came here in December, said that the project presented by the Arrival was a copy of the, b, c, presents to us almost an integral copy of what was plunged by the PS and the PSD in 2021. It's true! Look at the project and compare with the project that was plummeted in 2021. It's the same thing! Mr. Deputies, it's not enough that lobbying is not going to be regulated. [[Ah...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u351	We want to regulate the interests that need to be regulated in the name of transparency. It does not count on political circus parties when there are six or seven days left for this Parliament to stop working. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u352	We're waiting for a power schedule!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u353	Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares, we already know that the Block is fine with the law we have and is content with the way we have, which is all obscure. At TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ), already PS President Carlos César had said that there had also been preparatory meetings with the TAP Block,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u354	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u355	...so maybe the Block is used to this kind of operation. Mr President, honestly, I don't know what else I can tell you anymore. I do not know whether it is lack of knowledge, whether it is political or legislative ignorance. I gave him the example of Germany, which regulates lobbying and has the most defined influence-trafficking crimes in the world. It has nothing to do with each other. Therefore, they excuse walking there to say that regulating lobbying is to stop considering the trafficking of influence as illegal criminal, because either they do not know, or it is ignorance, or it is a lack of knowledge of what is going on around the world. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u356	It's ignorance!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u357	Or that's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u358	So I think we have good examples in Germany, France, Austria, good examples that have worked against corruption and transparency. Not doing anything is what you want, it's keeping everything in the middle of the dark interests you're used to dealing with. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[In the meantime, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u359	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u360	Mr President, it is about the conduct of the work to request the good offices of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u361	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u362	Oh...!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u363	...and we do not recognize ourselves at any sort of preparatory meetings. So I just want to ask the Bureau that you prove these statements that, as you will see, they are false.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u364	Mr Ventura, would you also like to make an inquiry on the conduct of the work?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u365	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u366	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u367	It's very simple. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares may not have listened carefully to what I said, but if you want, I will read to you again, Mr. The news is of April 11, 2023, a publication by the President of the Socialist Party, Carlos César, which also refers to the participation of the Block in preparatory meetings...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u368	Preparations for what? Of what?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u369	... within the framework of the Government. That's all.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u370	Preparations for what? Of what? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u371	You're gonna set up the office! [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u372	Does Mr Pedro Filipe Soares ask for the floor for a new request from the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u373	Yes, Mr. President, to insist on it. As you can see, this information is a lie in the face of what Mr. André Ventura said earlier, because he...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u374	Him? Oh, my God! He...? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u375	... he did not say preparatory meetings—in fact, now, he did not even say preparatory meetings were—,... [[CH protests.]] ... but in the first intervention he insinuated specific cases. I'd like to understand the evidence he has, but as you can see, he's a liar. [[CH-protests and BE-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u376	You guys, it's just adrabice!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u377	Mrs. Members, if you have any documentation that you want to circulate through the various parliamentary groups, please make it available to the Bureau. Since there was no question of the conduct of the work, we will continue with our debate now being inscribed Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group. Please, Mr. Deputy. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u378	We have time! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u379	So are we! Mariana didn't even come! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u380	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PS and PSD are in a hurry to approve lobbying regulations. We are on January 3, with an assembly that will be dissolved on January 15, and once again the PS and PSD are trying to do what they have tried and failed to do: they understand about a law that regulates lobbying. Again, there we have PS and PSD, Liberal Initiative and PAN, as well as the Arrival, which presented the initiative in the same direction at the end of December, wanting to make the traffic of influences legal.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u381	It's nothing like that! That's not true! You don't understand!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u382	Yes, because even with more or less regulation, the nature of lobbying does not change: it reflects an influence of economic power on political power in order to condition its action.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u383	It's nothing like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u384	This is lobbying, in either way or otherwise, regulated or not, which means lobbying, Mr. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u385	Yeah, it's better in the dark!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u386	Lobbying must be combated and not fostered or standardized, it must be denounced and not turned into a big business for the communications agencies that you want to encourage.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u387	Yeah, it's...!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u388	If this legislation is approved, there will be an interest-representation business. A business in which those who sell their services, what are you going to advertise? What are you gonna sell? He's going to advertise and try to sell his ability to influence political power.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u389	As the CGTP (General Confederation of Portuguese Workers)!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u390	« Hire my agency, because we have the right people to influence political decisions. » Friends of friends, facilitators, privileged contacts to promote economic interests, in a word, the sale of influences, ceases to be condemnable and becomes something perfectly legal and even a lucrative business.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u391	Duarte Alves, 1917!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u392	And, like the arrival in December, what the PS, the PSD, the Liberal Initiative and the NAP do with these initiatives is a huge favor to the system of interests that lives at the expense of promiscuity, because they want, at the blight of cases that have come to the public, to spend a sponge on the real causes of these phenomena of promiscuity and corruption, real causes that are in the delivery of strategic sectors to large capital, sectors that, precisely because they are strategic, are highly dependent on political decisions, such as energy or mineral resources such as lithium. They are therefore sectors that already lobby until this law is passed and they want what they do today against the law to continue to be done, but under the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u393	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u394	There is also a bit of pernicious in these initiatives: they want, the proponents, that the representation of economic interests of large companies — such as large oil, energy, tobacco industry, private banking and out there — to be in the same category and with the same obligations as, for example, an environmental NGO, a movement of citizens who want to defend their natural heritage or even an association of students.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u395	Or a union!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u396	It is as if there was no difference between organizations that advocate non-profit collective interests and the representation of private interests that want to profit from political decisions and have done so legally, as you propose here.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u397	Your unions don't want to earn anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u398	It is noted that today, in the legislative process, all consultations, written opinions, hearings, until meetings of parliamentary groups with the most diverse entities are published with complete transparency on the website of the Assembly of the Republic. This is therefore not about transparency; what they want is to force entities, which today are heard in an absolutely transparent way, to use intermediates paid by weight of gold.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u399	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u400	To create a business, what is being done is also creating barriers that limit the rights of democratic participation in public life. It says the PS project that a model must be built in line with the solutions of the European institutions. What is happening in the institutions of the European Union is, in fact, a wonderful example, but by the negative.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u401	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u402	The European Commission, the European Parliament, where thousands of lobbyists are represented and exerting their action on a daily basis, is the finished example of how far economic power can be involved in almost always successful attempts to conform legislative production to its particular interests. There are numerous cases of the operation of rotating doors in the continuity of the lobbyist action. One of the best known is that of Durão Barroso,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u403	Well remembered! That's a good example!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u404	... that, after proposing a new regulatory framework in the banking sector, came out of the European Commission for Goldman Sachs, from which the consultant appointed by Durão Barroso himself to a high-level group, plus an expression of institutionalized lobbying that determined the basis for that same regulation of the banking sector. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to combat corruption and promiscuity there is no need to throw sand into people's eyes...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u405	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u406	...and legalize private business facilitators in the shadow of political decisions. What is needed is to reverse the neoliberal direction of privatization of strategic sectors,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u407	Oh, that's what it does well!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u408	... is to take measures that close the rotating doors between public offices and large companies, it is to comply with the subordination of economic power to democratic political power. This requires a policy and a patriotic and left-wing government, not at the service of the economic groups and institutions of the European Union, but at the service of the workers, the people and the sovereign development of the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u409	The honourable Member has a request for clarification and to make it available on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u410	Mr President, two brief questions, Mr Duarte Alves: first, where, in the four initiatives, does it remove the obligation of any intermediary in contacts with the public decision maker? On the contrary, there is a standard that says precisely the opposite. Secondly — and to this even if I gave a reply — in view of the fact that the draft laws, all of them, provide for express prohibitions of rotating doors, will vote for the Portuguese Communist Party, at least in favour of this rule in the specialty, ultimately aiming to ensure that this promiscuity ceases to exist, as the projects propose? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u411	To reply, Mr Duarte Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u412	Mr President, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, what is true is that all entities have to register as lobbyists or, then, hire lobbyists...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u413	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u414	...and, therefore, to have a tertiary element and to encourage the creation of a new business, a new business line for communication agencies,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u415	It's the influence trade!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u416	... that they become legal and allow the trafficking of influences legally. As for the rotating doors, the problem is even the lack of measures that put an end to these rotating doors, and it is not with the legalization of lobbying, it is not with the legalization of the traffic of influences that this solves; it is truly with measures such as those that the CFP, several times, proposed and could in good time have been approved. Now, Mr. Member, don't talk to me in court about the specialty, when Mr. Members know, as well as all of us, that this initiative is not going anywhere,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u417	We'll see!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u418	... because, once again, at the end of the legislative session, as in previous years, you are looking for an understanding that you have not been able to achieve for years. Therefore, what we are really discussing here is something that is only about proclamation of intentions, those intentions that the PCP does not follow, because we do not follow the purposes that the PS presents here, of legalizing this form of selling influences. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u419	You didn't answer the question!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u420	The PS key is really strong today!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u421	To speak on behalf of the Free, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u422	Mr. President, Dear colleagues : The Book has in its programme, with which it has been elected to this legislature,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u423	Unfortunately!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u424	... the regulation of lobbying and it is in favour of it, provided that this means the opposite of what has been suggested here several times, that it would simply pass on activities that are and should continue to be in the Criminal Code for a code of normal economic activities of the IRS (tax on income of natural persons).
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u425	But it's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u426	This is not surprising, because what is referred to as lobbying rules should be more correctly referred to as "regulation of codes of conduct for political institutions", for Parliament in particular, for the Government too, in relation to how it manages its contacts with institutions and associations, legitimate representatives of the interests of civil society. However, while there is nothing more to me than saying that here we would be going to play with a process in the specialty that from this action to contacts with civil society itself to improve the project, we are in a situation where, on the one hand, the impression that legislation is being enacted over cases is public and notorious—and, on the other hand, brought to debate itself—and, secondly, we have elections at the door, in which we have the right moment and time to take the program and the debate with the public itself the way this lobbying regulation should be done. Therefore, while we do not impede the initiative and come together, to the extent possible, in the process of specialization — which will be very inappropriate — we believe that the best way to make this lobbying regulation should be to bring it to an electoral campaign that comes there and that would give the next Parliament, yes, the attempt to legislate on its own conduct, rather than to be this to legislate on a course that will not be applied to it.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u427	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Francisco Oliveira has the floor. [[Pause.]] I correct and give the floor to Mrs Emília Cerqueira of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u428	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I wish everyone a good year this first intervention of the year, in this legislative session that will be so short. And I'm starting to talk about being so short. In the last debate we had in this House, in the previous year, the PS surprised us by announcing that it would mark a legislative debate for the first session of the year, with the discussion of the regulation of the register of interests, vulgar lobbying. In fact, if the arrival had already come at the last hour, what about this PS proposal that comes even on the closure of the cloth? [[And the PSD or the game is coming!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u429	Since it comes with its usual matrix, it has not even allowed anyone to drag or discuss initiatives together with its own, closing themselves to tell us all "we are the only ones who care about seriousness, integrity and transparency". [[CH protests.]] That is a good way to put things, leaving everyone out of this discussion. Today, despite the PSD position, we have said clearly that this is not the time to discuss lobbying, because we are even at the end of this legislative session, consistent with the statement by the President of the PSD also presented an initiative on lobbying. And we have introduced it with this deep regret of being now, when there is no time to seriously discuss this matter. But it is also important to say — because during this debate, clearly, there are those who try to confuse the Portuguese on what is being discussed — that the word 'corruption' is constantly in the mouth of all to try to confuse crime with what is a record of interests. No, we cannot continue to allow the Portuguese to hear this often without account. And, allow me to say it, so many times it is said a lie, that any day becomes true. That can't really happen. Lobbying has to do with what is called « legitimate representation of interests». Rightfully, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u430	It becomes legitimate!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u431	And saying 'legitimate' is even important: it does not become legitimate; it is that which is and has always been legitimate. What is important is that we have a regulatory framework which makes clear what is legitimate and what is illegitimate. And also for cases like those we have seen recently: the government has met there with some companies, you don't know very well who, you don't know very well about the ride of what you have legislated. We have this suspicion every day and, unfortunately, with this last government which has so used us to have dark processes: it is said that the minister has met with no one, who has interests there in lithium,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u432	Get back in power!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u433	...that has interests there in Sines... All this makes you confuse what is legal with what is illegal, what is transparent with what is obscure. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u434	It's all illegal now!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u435	For us, this distinction is fundamental: that one understands what is legal and what is not legal, what is transparent and what is not transparent, what is corruption and trafficking of influences and what are the normal meetings that groups have and have always had.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u436	So ready!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u437	And the gentlemen. Members speak of Parliament's issue. You are right, Mr Duarte Alves, you are quite right when you mention something very simple: Parliament registers.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u438	Record everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u439	But you have not read the initiatives, Mr... [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]] ... because the PSD initiative is for Parliament, for the President of the Republic, for the autonomous regions, for the authorities, for the regulatory entities, it is for everyone, especially those who have never understood very well how they came to decisions and what interests, in fact, they have represented, whom they have spoken to, how they have spoken and what terms they have spoken about.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u440	It's the law of a bitch!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u441	Because not everything is the Assembly. The world does not sum up the Assembly and the Portuguese have the right to examine and understand the legislative footprint of what happens in all organs of the direct and indirect administration of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u442	Legislative is here, it's here!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u443	It seems that there are those who are disturbed, who may think that the CGTP or the CNA (National Confederation of Agriculture) should not continue to be heard. [[PCP protests.]] All these are also groups that represent interests, and well, which must be and continue to be heard. And this record does not come in any way to prevent this hearing, it is important that this be made clear. But we also pretend that groups and communication agencies do not exist anymore is a great lack of adherence to reality. They, we know them, they're here every day. I also believe they meet with the PCP and the Left Block. No matter what we pretend there is or assume that they exist, they exist and, if they exist, we must know - they must be regulated, there must be a record of their footprint - of the meetings they have with whom, how, when and for what. This is called transparency.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u444	It's called something else!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u445	And I will tell them, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the PSD has been reluctant in this regime, but this Socialist Party Government and its management, which you have supported, has changed our minds, because we continue in this lunatic is that it cannot be. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u446	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. To express it on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Francisco Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u447	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group welcomes all political forces who have taken part in this democratic debate seriously and are interested in overcoming a difficulty rather than just making a political number. Having had the opportunity to ask the PSD if it would be available to help build a more transparent solution in last December's debate, I am glad to see that we will have an opportunity to work on this and that the PSD will be part of the solution. The debate has been being held with great intensity since 2015, gathering opinions from dozens of entities and allowing the organization of numerous forums of debates, some of them in parliamentary headquarters. Civil society has looked at the proposals these years and helped to improve them.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u448	I have an idea! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u449	More than that, this debate also allowed the building of consensus, produced final texts, several times clarified less achieved aspects of the initial versions, and added to the theme of lobbying the legislative footprint, measure, moreover, constant of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy. We know that the representation of interests will not solve all the problems that the issue calls for. However, ensuring records and advertising of activity, rules on incompatibilities and conflicts of interest will always be better than maintaining the current situation, in which scrutiny is not guaranteed, or risk prevention. All this, in fact, comes to tell us the civic associations and researchers who have examined the subject. Here we come, we know that time is short. But the four proposals presented and under discussion share a very close common fund because they benefit from the broad discussion held in recent years and from the learning of international experiences, in particular that which is in force within the European Union. Allowing, the timetable—and the question I am asking is the PSD—is the PSD available to seek to ensure the approval of a regime that ensures this strengthening of transparency? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u450	In reply, Mrs Emília Cerqueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u451	Mr President, Mr Francisco Oliveira, thank you for the question. In a very synthetic way: the PSD is where it has always been, which is next to the solution. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u452	They're opening bottles of champagne! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u453	I now give the floor to Mr André Ventura on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u454	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: I have listened to Mr Duarte Alves very carefully and, I am sorry to say, Mr Deputy, he has not read the projects, nor does he know what is at stake. [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]] I am sorry to say that, but I do not read and do not know what is in question, because by confusing the registration of legitimate interests — we are not illegitimate — as part of a process which is now not regulated and wants to be regulated, it seems that the CFP is saying that it is on the side of the darkness and not of the solution and regulation.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u455	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u456	Look at the big defender of PS projects!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u457	Mr President, until I tell you: I don't usually make this quote, but I don't know if you heard Prof. Jorge Miranda, who is suspicious of being from the Arrival, who said, and I quote: "Legal interests, I don't really like that they are regulated in this way,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u458	But we're going to be!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u459	... but it is perhaps better with transparency than being institutionalized without any transparency. And so, yes, I argue that lobbying should be legalized and regulated through Parliament. Do not keep on seeking. ” I tell you more, Mr President: it says that 'this is bad, the rotating doors. Mr Deputy, I remember that it was the Arrival that presented here a ban that whoever had been working for the government or for public companies to go to work for these companies, and the CFP voted against. [[Ah...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u460	He voted against it because he said it was unconstitutional! [[Congrats from the CH.]] So, do you want rotating doors or don't you want rotating doors? PCP voted against! He's here, he's making the proposal. Mr. Member, you gave the example of Dr. Durão Barroso, but you could give it to everyone else: that of Durão Barroso, of others who are working, look at the grant of the Vasco Bridge of Gama, in public works, in many other places! So what did we say? “ Finish it all! Who's there can't go back there! What did you say? "Ah, it is very exaggerated. Do not keep on seeking. ” So, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, you understand: or you want a real law...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u461	Seriously, it's something that doesn't help you!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u462	...to cut seriously, or it's just fantasy. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u463	But that's not it!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u464	The PS is with big defenders!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u465	To close the debate, on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u466	You won't be able to defend the PS better than this!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u467	It's the lobby of José Luís Carneiro!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u468	They're the victims of hunger, they must be in hypoglycaemia!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u469	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is not a new issue, it has already been the subject of discussion and legislative initiative in this Parliament, in particular in the XIII and XIV legislatures. It is a topic that is part of strengthening the instruments of greater transparency in the relationship between electors and voters, which has accession to the PS electoral programme, in particular in the creation of law-enforcement mechanisms. The XV legislature has the opportunity to legislate in a political framework of great convergence between democratic forces, following the work done and strengthening the basis for consensus on a central theme for the quality of democracy and for the citizens' own perception of combating corruption and other related crimes. We must point out that this instrument does not change the Penal Code and does not serve to create loopholes for the trafficking of influences. Traffic in influence as referred to in Article 335. the, is a crime and, in this frame, continues and must continue to be punished. Mr President, in a plural, free and democratic society, the manifestation and defense of individual interests or collective interests is legitimate and is part of the dynamics of a community with socio-economic activities that develop, create wealth and promote social well-being. The key thing is to make clear the link between the defence of these interests and the common good, reflected in the policy options that the legislator and other entities and sovereign bodies conduct. This transparency is to be welcomed and will, in essence, strengthen the institutions representing the citizens. There is a submerged but non-criminal reality, which is fundamental to giving visibility to better scrutinize and separate the legitimate defense of interests from the practice of corruption crimes and trafficking in influences. This bill aims to give transparency to what is still opaque today; to what exists in Portuguese society and in other societies, but is not seen. It is this opportunity, in addition to the plagiarism and sectarian opportunism that did not let others democratically contribute, that the PS Parliamentary Group opens with this initiative: a plural and open discussion,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u470	Short!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u471	... clarifying the way in which the institutions of the Republic should take the relationship with interested parties, of course legitimate. The reality, in many of the most advanced democracies, which have adopted legislation of the same nature — indeed, recommended by institutions such as the OECD — allows us to state that the proposal that we present, weighted and aligned with the best international practices, also exceeds the limitations that His Excellency, the President of the Republic, has cut off in 2019 and so we can definitely move forward in a framework of broad democratic consensus. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-03.u472	We have thus reached the end of the debate and our agenda. The meeting of tomorrow is completed with the vote on draft resolution No 969 / XV / 2. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Paris, and the Appeal to the Government No 11 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ) — The degradation of the purchasing power of workers and pensioners, the worsening of inequalities and the unfair distribution of wealth. Good afternoon to everyone and until tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 8 minutes.]]
