ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a position to begin our work, so I declare open the session. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha for the reading of the file, asking for silence in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon to all and to all. They entered the Bureau, and were admitted, Resolution Projects No. 967 / XV / 2. a ( PS ), 971 / XV / 2. a ( PAN), 972 / XV / 2. a ( PAN), 973 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ), 974 / XV / 2. a ( L) and 975 / XV / 2. a ( Committee on European Affairs ), which falls to 4. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u3	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda consists of three points, and the first one has been positively set by the PS and is on « New Railway Links », the second point is a debate with the participation of the Government on the priorities of the Belgian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, and the third is a vote. Mrs. Members, as I mentioned, the request of the PS, was set the agenda on the topic « New railway links », under which Resolution Projects Nos 967 / XV / 2 will be discussed. a ( PS ) — Recommends the development of the procedures leading to the start of the Porto-Lisboa High Speed Line; 845 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Address the contribution and needs of populations and authorities to the impacts of the Porto-Lisboa high-speed line ; 970 / XV / 2. a ( BE ) — Priority of rail in Portugal ; 971 / XV / 2. a ( PAN) — Establishment of a working group with the task of assessing the implementation of the measures to protect and maintain the area of rape and veal in the implementation of the investment projects in the railway provided for under the National Railway Plan, the Railway Programme 2020 and the PT2030; 972 / XV / 2. a ( PAN) — For the extension of Portugal's application deadlines to the Connecting Europe Facility and in defense of the completion of the Porto-Lisboa high-speed line, the TGV Porto-Vigo, a railway line from Francisco Sá Carneiro Airport and the connection of all district capitals by rail up to 2030 ; 973 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Development of the Porto-Lisboa high-speed railway line; and 974 / XV / 2. a (L) — Recommends that the Government resume the international night trains Portugal-Spain. To present the PS initiative, Mr Hugo Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group agendas this debate on the competition for high speed due to the imperative need to move forward to decide. The development of Portugal is the objective — a connected, sustainable and competitive country in Europe. The country cannot stand still on this subject. It is 30 years late for Spain to decide on the high speed, or more than 50 years and 13 locations to decide where the new airport in Lisbon will be built. And we continue without further progress, the fruit of a political culture especially based on our right, where to decide is a problem, certainly in the hope that the market will solve everything.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u5	It's wrong, sir! It started wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u6	We well know that they are always available to put sand on the gear, or whether it is by proposing a working group to evaluate an independent technical committee. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In many debates on the Portuguese economy we seek answers to the issues of competitiveness and competition with the outside world and, certainly, in these structural projects, we find part of the answer. We need to respond to the legitimate aspirations of the Portuguese and our economy and not be afraid to make decisions, the decisions that the country needs. Since November 2015, the governments of the Socialist Party have put the railway at the heart of the political debate. The 2020 Railway Plan, with a total investment of around EUR 2000 million, is at a critical stage of its development, in which the already realized transition from the project phase to the work phase is evident.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u7	Where is this work?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u8	It is, in fact, this same work that puts nervousness in the debate, and the numbers deny those who, due to the lack of better ideas, live from the personal attack. As a mere example, in 2023, the investment in rail was EUR 670 million, while in 2015 the last year of the PSD/CDS government, the value had been EUR 96 million, the difference in numbers is factual and enlightening. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u9	What about 2016?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u10	Of course, with the difficulties arising from those who make and make decisions and do not leave everything in it, there have been delays. Today, it is consensual for the country that it is necessary to maintain a constant pace of investment to empower both the public and private sectors, ensuring the realization of these projects without obstacles. The country needs these investments. At the level of new rolling stock, the first two acquisitions were awarded in more than 20 years: 22 two-way electric motors for 150 million euros and 117 electric motors for 760 million euros.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u11	Where are they?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u12	Other crucial examples have been to prevent the dismantling of EMEF (the Railway Equipment Maintenance Company), its merger with CP (the Portugal Trains ) and the reopening of Guifões workshops, as well as improvements in the operation of the city of Entronicamento. All of this is added to the reduction in the rate in social passes, a strong measure of impact on the savings of families, or more recently on the national railway pass. For the future, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, our country has outlined an ambitious horizon for investment in infrastructure, especially on rail, and we are talking about more than EUR 10 billion planned for the next decade. in this context, the high-speed line(LAV) Porto-Lisboa stands out as a more significant and transformative investment, not only by its size, but also by the expected impact on the modernization and efficiency of the entire rail network and the transport system of the country. This project will not only drastically reduce travel times between the two largest cities in Portugal, but will also stimulate economic growth, tourism, regional cohesion and the creation of specialized jobs. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u13	Now it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u14	The high-speed line is disliked in several PPPs (public-private partnerships) at 30 years,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u15	Welcome to the PPPs!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u16	... as regards design, construction, financing and maintenance. By following best European practices, including French experience, being in the sphere of the State, through IP ( Infrastructures of Portugal ), the operating components, ensuring traffic management. That is to say, the strategic control that has been lacking in other natural monopolies granting processes is the network open to all rail transport operators under competition rules. And why the need to move forward now? EUR 730 million is planned for Community funds intended exclusively for Portugal, but for this the facts and experience demonstrate that we must have a successful application until 30 January to the so-called CEF ( Connecting Europe Facility ). The absence of a successful candidacy will result in the reallocation of Portugal's funds to other cohesion countries, in a competitive process, once again losing the development train. Portugal cannot continue without the ability to decide, and it is therefore necessary for everyone to be responsible, in particular for the greater part of the opposition.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u17	And the government, right now!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u18	This is a subject of consensus, and the favourable declaration of vote, which has already been made public, is important to our draft resolution. from the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, we will do everything to avoid wasting this amount that any more developed country would need, just as we will not fail the crucial investment for our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u19	Now it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u20	This is an opportunity we can't lose for the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u21	The honourable Member has two requests for clarification, to which I suppose he will answer together.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u22	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u23	To make the first request for clarification, Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Hugo Costa, at the end of our parliamentary work, at the end of eight years of government, the PS does not want to talk about the past, the PS does not want to talk about the present, the PS just wants to talk about the future, in the reincarnation of the old argument of « now it will be». [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u25	PSD just wants to talk about the past!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u26	In order for the Portuguese to understand us — and I do not hear myself, Mr President — the Socialist Party came to Parliament to ask the parliamentary groups to help the Socialist Party urge the government to govern. [[Mr Bruno Nunes's laughs.]] The PS today has a draft resolution, asks: « Help us! » And ask the government to govern — curiously, the government that is also on its way.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u27	It was we who held this debate, Mr President, if you don't remember!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u28	The PS does not want, nor can it speak to Portuguese in health; the PS does not want, nor can it speak in education; the PS does not want, nor can it speak in justice; the PS cannot speak in poverty; the PS cannot speak in immigration; the PS cannot speak in public services. But the PS wants at least to talk about Pedro Nuno Santos. Now, the problem of the ex-Minister and future Mr. Pedro Nuno Santos is that he has a past that pursues him, because where he plays he destroys. Since Mr Nuno Santos has a poor memory, we are going to live up to that memory. In the living room, where it's messed up. Nothing was done, total degradation, and the disastrous state of housing ended up as the Most Housing Program. Sad memory! At the airport, he passed and spoiled. We are all reminded of that stuttering scene in which he tries to betray the agreement with the PSD and, catching up the Prime Minister in Spain, announces not one but one — to the socialist! — two airports.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u29	It is about today's debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u30	How did it end? He ended up with an unauthorized minister and apologized. It was embarrassing! [[PS protests.]] Continued: at TAP (Portuguese Air Transport), where it went broke. It adhered to the thesis of the flying cows and decided that the company could not be private and had to be public and therefore injected all the money that the European Union had authorized — EUR 3200 million there. However, and the company can no longer be public, it must be private, but there is no one in this Chamber who guarantees that the Portuguese will receive the money they put there again. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Worse, Mrs. Members: TAP ended up even worse, it ended up with a minister resigning for managing TAP for WhatsApp and for forgetting a compensation of €500,000. This minister resigned because he understood, and I quote, that «in view of the public perception and the collective feeling generated» he no longer served as Minister. You didn't serve as Minister, but you want me to serve as Prime Minister! [[PSD applause.]] Even in the actions of the CTTs ( Correios de Portugal ), Member of the Commission, this was a day-to-day skater. He went to the socialist! [[PS protests.]] But now they want to talk about rail and TGV (high speed train). Not from the past eight years, but from the future. On TGV, Member of Parliament, I would like to make the following clear: the PSD Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of the project to the extent that we will support the resolutions that resolve the mobility and capacity problems of the Lisbon-Port railway axis and, now, Porto-Lisboa. And we will vote in favour of Portugal and not in favour of the PS because we do not know and do not follow what we do not even know, which are the technical parts, the competition, the financing model. In fact, Mr. Member, it is highly disrespectful that the PS will allow itself,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u31	A PS? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u32	... instead of informing the opposition of what you're doing, let it spread through newspapers what's going to happen about the financing model. It is not a serious way to discuss politics and discuss the TGV. [[PSD applause.]] Sir, let's go to the questions. The PS now wants to approve by the end of the month—and it is indisputable that it must now be in order to take advantage of 750 million euros—but will this not be a more confessed way of saying that they did not work, that they were incompetent and that they did not do the housework? [[PSD applause.]] I would like to ask another question, Mr President. This competition, which we are now going to compete with in the last, socialist fashion, is not something similar to the competition we have already gone and which has been plunged because it has been mistrained by the Socialist Party? [[That's right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u33	That's the answer I'd like to have, too. Now, Mr President, I am disappointed: they run, run after that, but now they take advantage of everyone who is here and who is missing from public investment and our companies. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u34	Mr Filipe Melo has the floor to make a request for clarification on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u35	Mr. President of a few benches, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hugo Costa, let me just tell you that when Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira listened to me, I wondered whether the debate would be about rail, or about health, or about education, or about the airport, or about the TAP. It was a little confusing, but I'm just gonna talk about railroad. Mr Hugo Costa said from the pulpit that there has been no solution for the TGV and the airport for 30 years. The first very simple question I put is the following: how many years have the Socialist Party ruled in these 30 years?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u37	It's just making the count!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u38	That's the first question I'll leave you. If you can answer me, you can find the explanation for your rhetoric. Secondly, I will show you a cover of the 1999 Public :... The speaker displayed the above-mentioned document. ... « TGV will connect Lisbon to Porto in 1 hour and 15 minutes. Do not keep on seeking. ” Do you know who the Prime Minister was at this time? Antonio Guterres. Who followed? José Socrates. Who followed? Antonio Costa. Everything, with a little break... [[PS protests.]] Take it easy, stay calm, stay calm. With an interval by means of PSD — or AD ( Democratic Alliance ) or PSD, it does not matter. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u39	Let's hear it!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u40	With an interval in the middle, they were several years of socialist governments. And what has brought us so far? Zero, zero! There is no TGV, there is no new airport and, whether you want it or not, the responsibility is entirely the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u42	Third question, for the « now is what it is » : Mr can explain to me, briefly and to conclude, why, over eight years, eight years of the Government of Antonio Costa, the new Secretary-General, current Member, future Member of the Socialist Party Pedro Nuno Santos had the protection of the railway and do not know how much a train ride from Porto to Lisbon costs? You don't even know that and you've kept this area safe! Now what's it gonna be? Now that the government is no longer in office, do they decide to launch an invitation to tender? They were eight years old to do so, Mr. Deputies. Is this or is it not to play with the Portuguese face? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u43	To reply, Mr Hugo Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u44	Mr President, I thank Mr Paulo Rios and Mr Filipe Melo for the questions. Mr. Paulo Rios took 3 minutes and 20 seconds until he reached the railway theme.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u45	It's true! He's late!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u46	Such despair over the new Secretary-General of the Socialist Party can only be justified with the great congress of the Socialist Party that took place last weekend. [[PSD protests.]] With regard to the topics you have referred to, Mr. Paulo Rios, the financing model has been known since September 2022. It is on the IP website, in a public presentation, since September 2022. If the Social Democratic Party has not been present, it has not known or looked at this presentation, in which it is said to be a public-private partnership, it is certainly not the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Then, in relation to investment in rail, yes, we will pick up the thresholds in three years of the latest governance of the PSD and CDS : in 2012, EUR 104 million of investment ; in 2013, EUR 120 million ; in 2014, EUR 104 million. But in 2023, EUR 670 million of investment; in 2022, EUR 482 million of investment; and in 2021, EUR 310 million of investment. And, yes, it was the current Secretary-General of the Socialist Party who presented this project and these investments. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to other issues, such as TTTs, such as TAPs and housing, he was certainly on the wrong subject and in the wrong debate. As far as I know, the debate is tomorrow, but I also have a lot to say about the CTTs. Who privatized CTTs against national interest was the PSD and the CDS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to TAP, I also have one thing to say : at the end of four years, they have not yet been able to say what they were doing in 2020. [[Protests by PSD Member Paulo Rios de Oliveira.]] They let the company close, they sent 10,000 people to the street, what were they doing? On housing, the « law Cristos», which was the last thing the PSD and CDS did when they were in government, says well what is the policy of PSD and CDS and the new AD for housing. That's why, sirs. Members, in this way, the answers are clear. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group presents this project on the competition, which naturally failed on matters of maturity and which will now be approved. Let's finally build the high-speed line. On Mr. Filipe Melo's questions, it is true that Eng.António Guterres presented the high-speed project, but Dr. Durão Barroso sent it to the trash can. It is true that Eng.o Socrates presented the high-speed design, but Dr. Pedro Passos Rabbit sent him to the trash. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, it is certainly not for the Socialist Party that there is no high-speed project. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u47	To speak on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : The new high-speed line between Porto and Lisbon corresponds to a well-identified national need about 30 years ago. over these decades, the CFP has supported all the initiatives aimed at its construction and will continue to do so - but, indeed, it has not been for lack of parliamentary support that this and other infrastructures will collapse over time, with its implementation always discussed on the eve of elections and always postponed, after them.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u49	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u50	Now, the conversation of those who want more studies appears again. If the gentlemen. Members made the attempt to search the Infrastructures site of Portugal, on the Internet, find further studies...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u51	Palettes!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u52	... about the high speed and its projects in our country—are 2005, 2008, 2009 and 2011. If these studies are now useful for something, it is to demonstrate that the problem is never the lack of studies, or rather, the lack of studies is a reason not to do things, until the studies are done, and then another reason is found. And when we finally reach a decision on the projects, it is the implementation and implementation that is taking place. This is how investments are being systematically dragged forward and postponed. The 2020 Railway Plan was launched in 2016 and should have been completed at the end of 2021, but the IP has recently admitted that the investment programme will only be fully implemented at the beginning of 2025. They will say that someone has pleaded for a plague on public investment in Portugal, in such a way that, in the last decade, between 2012 and 2022, Portugal was the second country in the European Union with less public investment than GDP ( gross domestic product ), immediately after Ireland. But it's not gum and it's not random. It's politics. What has been lacking is the political will of the parties on the right and the Socialist Party to invest public resources in building a network of infrastructures capable of boosting the economic and social development of the country. But at the same time as supporting the development of this project, the CFP alerts to the need for a fundamental consideration regarding the transparency of the process, as well as to introduce three structural issues and carry out a complementary action, which would greatly contribute to the proper implementation of the project. The overall very positive impact of the Lisbon-Porto high-speed line does not cease to induce, at least in the design and construction phases, concerns on affected populations, seeing often frustrated the investment of a life, financial and emotional, who judged safe and long-term, either by the barrier effect, either by the destruction of the building or by the total or partial occupation of land. The contribution of local authorities and populations is highlighted, essential for maximizing positive impacts and minimizing negative impacts, and to this end, the provision of timely and transparent information is particularly relevant. People have the right to information. The silence of IP and other entities generates uncertainty and insecurity in populations. The timely consideration of the local contribution also allows that where some can see only one problem others can point out solutions that eliminate this problem and still benefit the entire location or region affected. The complementary action, which we consider absolutely necessary, is the conclusion of the National Railway Plan. The Government took the initiative to present a proposal of the National Railway Plan and to submit to public discussion. The CFP publicly presented its evaluation of this plan, which we will not develop here, where it highlighted a set of qualities and failures of this plan, but there is, by the way, a grueling difficulty in finalizing this process. The structural issues we consider essential are three. The first is the need to abandon the PPP model for building this infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u53	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u54	It is necessary to learn from the bad experiences and options, such as road PPPs, which have sucked national resources for more than 20 years, with annual spending over EUR 1000 million, and as it was the worst experience with high-speed PPP Lisbon-Evora, in which the country is threatened to have to pay EUR 220 million for an infrastructure that has never been built, because the Court of Auditors has led the contract and because the blindness of the PSD/CDS government has never allowed them to see the importance for the country of that railway connection. It is perfectly identified that the basis of the true corruption that afflicts the country is, in particular, situated in the proliferation of such contracts between the State and economic groups and multinationals. The second question has to do with the so-called « phase 6 » of the work, in its connection to Lisbon from the Load. As it is designed today, this is the only piece where the infrastructure will be the same as the current North Line, exactly at the point of higher infrastructure occupancy, where the channel space is saturated and where the railway service is already insufficient today, due to lack of channel space, particularly the suburban service to Azambuja. The third question is that we need to take into account now, which is the need to connect the National Railway Network to the future International Airport of Lisbon — I would say, to the International Airport of Lisbon. The fact that the current airport does not have this connection is one of the reasons why, 50 years ago, they justify the need for relocation. It is that, for the rest of the country, the lack of rail connection to the Lisbon International Airport makes it difficult for both the Portuguese and the tourism reception aimed at these regions. The solution to these two problems I identified is the same, as the PCP has already proposed publicly: adopt a trace that is located on the left edge of the Tejo, making the high speed line follow forward, from the Chargegado to the new airport of Lisbon, on the public grounds of the current Alcochete Shooting Camp, and enter Lisbon through the third crossing of the Tejo. This solution would allow a direct high-speed line to Lisbon, without speed constraints, which the current project has in the last 31 km, with the infrastructure to be integrated into airport infrastructure, allowing inter-city services to the airport, from all over the country, without the need to pass through Lisbon and, much less, to exchange for other modes of transport in Lisbon. On the other hand, this solution would allow to increase the supply on the Azambouja Line, even without quadrupling the route in Vila Franca de Xira — as the current project foresees, with unacceptable impacts on the city and population — which, combined with some investment in the modernization of the stations, could raise and bring the Azmbuja Line, which serves the eastern area of Loures and the municipalities of Vila Franca and Azmbuja, to a substantially higher quality suburban railway offer. Finally, this solution also implies that it is finally progressing with the construction of the Third Cross of the Tile in rail mode, an essential infrastructure for the national rail network, and this is correctly identified in the current proposal of the National Railway Plan, either for international connections, in particular Madrid, for national links North-South or for the Lisbon metropolitan network, particularly in the municipalities of Barreiro, Moita, Palmela and Setúbal. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, public investment of quality, reproductive quality, enhancer of the modernisation of national infrastructure, enhancer of industry and national production, needs 'as bread for mouth' for our economy, for our development, for our sovereignty. Yesterday it was too late to move forward with these investments, but it is necessary to learn from our country's concrete experience, to learn from what has been the ruinous PPP business, to learn from the result of decisions taken on the back of local populations, ignoring their interests and inspirations. We need to catch up on the road. It's the same thing to say: enough talk. Another policy, a patriotic, left-wing policy, is needed to enable the country to move forward for a better life. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u55	The honourable Member has two requests for clarification. I assume you're responding together. To make the first request, Mr André Pinotes Batista of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u56	Mr. President, I would like to congratulate you, all of you. Members, the Minister and the Secretary of State. Mr Bruno Dias, high-speed investment is a strategic investment, an investment of EUR 10 billion that will bring more capacity, competitiveness, connectivity and more decarbonisation. Allow me, Mr Bruno Dias, of the CFP, to tell you that if you listen to the CFP and, from the bench of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, you agree with everything you say, you just don't understand where the funding is going to be sought for so much ambition. There must be realism and pragmatism here. If it is much more what unites us than what separates us, let me draw your attention to the position taken here by AD ( Democratic Alliance). In fact, the old AD, but now presented as new.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u57	If it were the old...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u58	An A.D. of deferral, an A.D. that just joined in arithmetically and which has come to propose the same to us: that it be late, that it be delayed. And it is worth being together, Mr, not to catch up on the road, but to walk on the road, not to catch up on the road, but to block anyone who wants to deregulate and privatize.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u59	Are you selling yourself? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u60	Allow me, Mr, to tell you the following: we cannot want to have European funds, European funding and, at the same time, not want to comply with the rules inherent in that participation.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u61	Now do you kiss the PCP again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u62	You've got a boyfriend...!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u63	That boyfriend's going to marry you, André!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u64	It is even very important that we can say here that realism and ambition are important to realize. Even with regard to the question which you referred to, the third indent of the Tejo, is acknowledged the position of the Higher Council of Public Works, the position of the leader of the Socialist Party is acknowledged and therefore wanted to reassure you in this matter too. But, Mr President, it is worth saying the following: when we define the model that involves the IP, we are dedicating what is really essential, which is the maintenance of the strategic control of this operation. And it is therefore important to say the following: political conditions are created; technical conditions are created; there is will; it is necessary that the Communist Party and the left, our left, will not alienate these conditions by ideological prejudice. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] It is time to sign this agreement, this consensus, and we can say: that it is decided, that it is built and that it is moving forward. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u65	For a request for clarification on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Jorge Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u66	Calm down, Jorge!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, in April 2022, in the debate of the 2023 Budget, while still Minister Pedro Nuno Santos, the focus was Ferrovia 2020. In the absence of answers, Pedro Nuno Santos took refuge, as always, in the troika and the Government of the PSD / CDS. from there came the famous phrase of Pedro Nuno Santos, « Now it will be », which has become a prophecy, as this debate, with the subtle term « new railway links ». For all of us, the objectives of the PS Government with this agenda are clear and obvious.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u68	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u69	It is not to assume responsibility for the brutal delay in the investments of Railway 2020.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u70	Not that!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u71	In 2019, Pedro Marques stated: « We will run 40% this year ».
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u72	Another great minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u73	It was to be in 2019, not at the end of 2023, as happened. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u74	The lie compensates!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u75	Gross delays are justified, in the words of the Government, because there are works — according to the current Secretary of State for Infrastructures — or because of the schedule, timetable.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u76	What's the question?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u77	Minister Pedro Marques was very ambitious when he presented Ferrovia 2020 in 2016, according to the current Vice-President of the CP ( Trains of Portugal ), Carlos Fernandes.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u78	No, I was out of money!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u79	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the purpose of the PS is not to debate the railway, but to create confusion, to disagree, to speak truth to lie, in the path of the masterly work of Almeida Garrett.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u81	Yes, omit the promised and not realized Railway 2020. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u82	Yes, omit that the 2030 Railway has not begun properly and is already late. [[PSD applause.]] Yes, omit that the TGV Porto-Vigo, in that conversation of September 2022, Mr Hugo Costa, after all, was just talk, because there will not be TGV Porto-Vigo in 2030, nor perhaps in 2040, as promised by the Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, and Pedro Nuno Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u83	But I can't answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u84	After all, Mr Hugo Costa, Vigo already has TGV Madrid-Vigo ; it takes 3 hours and 30 minutes, the same as it takes the Alfa do Porto to Lisbon today.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u85	You didn't ask me that question!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u86	Yes, omit that the great project of the TGV Porto-Lisboa, for which the Government woke up, after all, is no longer that the Porto-Aveiro branch, to conclude in 2030. Will Lisbon arrive in 2050? And, finally, this schedule is not to present and explain, with transparency and sense of state, to the Portuguese and this House, as is right, the project of the TGV Porto-Lisboa. Inexplicably, we only have knowledge of him through social communication. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u87	The same conversation again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u88	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bruno Dias, I thank you for the intervention and presentation of your draft resolutions, your concerns and your electoral programme for high speed. I'll ask you two questions. The TGV Porto-Aveiro will start travel in Campanhã, will have a stop 3 km, 4 km later, in Santo Ovidio,... [[You're talking about Gaia's parking lot!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u89	... a new station to be created in Vila Nova de Gaia, resulting from the agreement between the current Prime Minister, Pedro Nuno Santos and the author of Gaia. It is said that this underground station will cost hundreds of millions of euros. Hundreds of millions of euros.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u90	Millions of millions, say it's over there!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u91	When it comes to a PPP, Mr. Member, like the road PPPs of Eng. Socrates, which still cost us more than EUR 1000 million of taxes per year, do not see Mr. Bruno Dias, in this option, another socialist deviation of the PPPs, a «now it will be» and pay who follows? Second question. In 2030 we will have the Porto-Aveiro branch completed, but the circulating material, where is it?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u93	Are you going to transfer the old Alphas purchased by Cavaco Silva to this branch? Or is it going to be the REFER (National Railway Network) since the line will be private, operating with its Iberian Bitola trains? Mr Bruno Dias, how for the Socialist Government can Iberia buy TAP, will it be another step and let the high-speed railway pass to the hands of the socialist Spanish friends of Pedro Sánchez? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u94	To reply, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor with the concission that characterizes it.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the questions you have raised. Mr André Pinotes Batista asked this very prosaic question: "Where are we going to get the money for this investment? » I return the question to you, putting to your consideration where we are going to look for the money to feed the PPPs, which currently cost more than EUR 1000 million per year. Every year!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u96	Well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u97	We, as a country, have no money to continue feeding the PPPs!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u98	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u99	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u100	Therefore, we cannot afford to destroy public administration and thus bet absolutely blind on PPPs which, to my surprise, I hear the PSD repudiating, as it has now done — and very well, but surprisingly — Mr Jorge Mendes, when he spoke in the socialist deviation of PPPs. In fact, this is a neoliberal gap, which the PS has embraced, as have you, over the years, on the highway, on the railway and in other sectors. [[All right!]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u101	On the other hand, on this issue of seeking money from the Community funds and at the same time failing to comply with the rules of the European Union, I would like to ask you what European Union rules are that require and impose some PPP on investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u102	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u103	That's not true, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. We have the sovereign ability to invest in the public sector and in public management, on the contrary — I am sorry, Mr President — for the PPPs you want to put us in.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u104	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u105	I should like to conclude, Mr President, by saying that both the PS and the PSD are complicit in the destruction of the railway in Portugal, and it is necessary, in fact, to catch up on the road and have another policy for public investment. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u106	To speak on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I have the floor of Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the investment in rail is in fact one of the most important designs for the country, not only for environmental gains, for the benefits of public health, for the quality of life of the populations, but also for the saving of families. That is why it must certainly be one of the country's priorities. However, over the decades, the political option was precisely the opposite direction. For decades, there has been a brutal disinvestment in the railway and, at the same time, a bet on the growth of the road network. And if it is true that this latter option has enabled the various territories of the country to be connected, it is also true that it was a mistake to do so at the cost of closing train stations and reducing the number of kilometres of railway line in our country. Because the consequence was the destruction of a very relevant part of territorial cohesion and an instrument of fundamental environmental policy, which was a national rail network. We arrived in 2024 and the investment in rail is on paper. We know the various projects, some of them have advanced, but the truth is that everything advances with a slowness that does not meet the pressing needs of the territory, the environment and the populations. For example, the recurrent delays in railway 2020. It was the IP itself, Portugal's Infrastructure itself, which admitted that programming was badly done. Therefore, it is urgent to strengthen investment in rail, leaving no territory of the country behind. On the contrary, priority should be given to places that are currently most difficult to respond to the problems of territorial cohesion and desertification of the interior. We cannot continue to be one of the few countries where there are district capitals that have no railway connection.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u108	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u109	And we also warn of the recent data submitted by the Mobility and Transport Authority ( TAM ), which notes the deterioration of the railway service, in particular with delays in Alpha and Intercities, and of suppressions and delays, in particular in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon. It is necessary, then, to look at reality, not try to mask it with the idea that there is a lot of money invested in railways, when saying that years on end, as has been done by successive governments, has not solved the problem of access to service by the population and at affordable prices. That is why the Block project today brings the debate looks at two aspects which are different, interconnected in a big debate on rail. First, on the high-speed line. This is undoubtedly an important project for the country. Not only because it should allow faster, more efficient and accessible long-term travel but also because of the potential for connecting to the Spanish State and from there to the rest of Europe. But precisely because of the importance and size of this project, which is concerned with the high-speed line, we believe that it should be thought and structured in close coordination with the authorities, populations and movements of citizens and citizens. The impacts of this type of work are very considerable. Often, they may involve the destruction of houses inhabited, their relocation, the profound alteration of certain roads in towns or cities and therefore attention should be redoubled. It is in this sense that we propose that this process be carried out in accordance with an extended public auscultation practice, which responds to the needs of the populations. In fact, we have already had the indication of several places where populations and authorities have requested exactly this collaboration: Leiria, Coimbra, Vila Franca de Xira will certainly not be the only ones. Therefore, this process must be done with this articulation, because so far it has had little transparency, little information and does not bring the populations to the side of a project that could be positive. The second aspect of the Block project concerns a tariff issue. If it is true that increasing the supply of public transport in rail is important, looking at the tariff issue is the other side of the same currency. E, ladies and gentlemen. Members, rail transport, particularly in long distances, is too expensive in Portugal, and this is an obvious disincentive to the choice of rail transport. When we look at Intercities or Alpha Pendular prices, we realize that there is a very serious problem. And, in alluding to this, the fact that it has been in these segments that are later on, what is being said to people is that they do not use the train for long distances. This is a mistake, it needs to be profoundly changed. The more we are saying at the same time — and well — that we want to invest in the high-speed project. The use of the train may not be so dependent on each other's financial capacity. It must respond to the needs of all and of all, and that is why we again insist on reducing the price of the national rail pass, because if we need to increase the supply, yes, we also need to reduce prices, because only that can be the way to mobility policies, which we need above all by rail. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u110	To speak on behalf of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present and other people present in the gallery and in this House : We cannot look at the goal of decarbonisation or the fight against climate change without making a serious bet on rail in our country. But in this domain, despite the love oaths that have been made, they have literally flown through the window, either in the discourses lost on the TAP or even in the distance to which we have witnessed a serious bet in this sector. Portugal is today, after all, the 3. the most railway country has lost in recent decades. We are the country that invests more in roads — indeed, three times more than in the railway — and we continue to have district capitals that have no connection to the railway, cities to which it is only possible to arrive in more than five hours. Just look, to try to exercise between Braga and the south of the country, to verify that a simple journey, through the railway, takes more than eight hours to finish. Even the connection to small Spanish cities continues to be a journey through the desert. And urban trains, if we look at the metropolitan areas, continue to have insufficient times and walk to the pine, without any quality that allows people to have smooth mobility and opt for public transport, rather than opt for the car. Now, in a country that has made the commitment to reduce fossil dependence, it remains unexplainable that a bus trip from Lisbon to Porto costs six times less than a train trip, although the NAP has brought several proposals in the State budget and today, again constructively, presents itself to this debate. We cannot accept that the EUR 730 million allocated to Portugal by the Connecting Europe Facility are being hijacked by a PS-PSD agreement, as if we were not to have elections and as if there were no other political forces in this House. And for this reason, today, we are proposing to the Government to ensure that the deadline for application is extended by the European institutions so that it may be possible, in the near majority of parliaments, to move forward at high speed in Portugal. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot accept that the high-speed line between Lisbon and Porto is between an insufficient intermodality and with financially questionable options, as a new bridge over the Douro. And, therefore, we propose, within this project, that the current railway network be given priority, with the safeguarding of existing ecosystems and also with the preservation of natural values, as is the case with supers, and that it bet on the use of the Ponte de São João. In conclusion, I can also point out that it is crucial to think about connecting airport infrastructures, particularly at Francisco Sá Carneiro Airport, with a strong capacity to dynamize, for example, the port of Legions, because if we really want to have an intermodality, this happens through interconnections and sections that are not linked. And finally, accept that the path of decarbonization is not made with the sacrifice of natural values and with the slaughter of riding, in a country that loses 1 ha of riding every two hours, which cannot afford to lose 300 rats in Águeda to reactivate the Vouga Line, or 287 rats to build the new Evora Line in Elvas, among so many other examples that we could give. And for this reason, we propose that we create an independent working group, with the task of evaluating the implementation of the measures for the projection and maintenance of the surface area, so that we preserve our natural values and...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u112	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u113	I shall indeed conclude, Mr President. As I said, so that natural preservation is not just a pin on the pen or an electoral flag that shakes when it is convenient.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u114	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Free House.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u115	Mr President, Caras e Caros Collegas, Dear Citizens in the galleries: This is a debate of enormous importance on a sector of our reality, our infrastructure, our territory, in which the problem is not Portugal has begun to delay and have to regain territory in relation to Europe ; it is, unlike other sectors, Portugal has begun to delay and have further delayed its path by destroying value on the railway. This is not therefore just a debate of this Parliament, it must be a debate for the future of the country, for the next elections and for the next legislature. And it is noteworthy that, in a debate on new railway links, all proposals are left, the PAN, the PS, the Portuguese Communist Party, the Left and the Free Block too, and that the right has not put forward proposals, as if there was nothing to add on the subject. And I want to believe that the right in Portugal is already a long way from the time when a leader of the PSD, a very esteemed and very respectable person in our public debate, Prof. Manuela Ferreira Leite, said that making the TGV between Lisbon and Madrid would be emptying Lisbon to benefit Madrid. We no longer have this vision of the railway's past, in which we think that the railway is a danger to the country. Railway is an opportunity to connect to Europe, it is an opportunity to densify links between our urban centers, it is an opportunity to make the axis that binds us more productive and prosperous, the Atlantic axis that connects our entire coastline, from Setúbal to Walk and then to Vigo and to the Crown, and to do with it the future of the country. The Free Paper presented a draft resolution for the reintroduction of international Portugal-Spain night trains, Lusitania and South-Express, which are part of our history, but are also part of our future and that, while there is no high-speed connection, a lot of service can still make Portuguese and Spanish and all Europeans. We also have with us our partners in the European Green Party, the Sumar Coalition, Spain, and the Equo Green Party, who also agree to the reintroduction of the night trains between Portugal and Spain. at this moment, we are having a debate—he said—not only for this Parliament, but for the next. And that is why the last word is for a challenge to the Socialist Party, which still has an absolute majority in this legislature: I hope that it will be able to use it constructively, in order to make the proposals which the other parties here have presented, so that we can give a signal, at the end of this legislature that at least the left half of this Parliament has proposals to make for the future of the country, in terms of rail, and that these are the main recommendations to the next Government. by doing this, what the Socialist Party will be doing is demonstrating that, finally, it is already removing the chip from the absolute majority self-sufficiency and realizing that it is necessary to start talking in terms of a progressive and ecological majority that governs the country, which obtains the mandate of the Portuguese from the next day 10.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u116	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u117	And I conclude, Mr President, by saying that this is a sign that will be heard out there and that, if you do not come in the form of a feasibility of left-wing proposals, it will be a terrible sign that the PS will give to the country for the next elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u118	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Rui Rocha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The Liberal Initiative is a high speed party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u120	High speed, but descending!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u121	...is the railway party and is also the high speed party. throughout this legislature we had the opportunity, at various times, to bring concrete proposals, to bring our national railway plan and to raise the debate on all these matters. That's right, ladies. Members who, in this regard, Portugal is late in relation to other European countries. Let's look around, let's see Spain, let's see France, let's see Italy, let's see the Baltic countries and even other Eastern countries which, in fact, in recent years, have jumped in terms of quality on their railway, and Portugal has stayed behind. Currently, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the connection between Porto and Lisbon takes about three hours, more or less the same time it took - in the 1980s last century, or even a little more. So when we speak at high speed, we talk about shortening the country with regard to distances, but we also talk about making the country grow in terms of opportunities, new centralities, economic growth. And we're not, sirs. Members, doing so - only in the view of the country's coastline; we are also putting the interior and the nearest coast, because only that high-speed structural route between Porto and Lisbon can then shorten, with a new investment in terms of rail, the distances also with the interior. That's right, too, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, we have had a clear delay, much because of the responsibility of the Socialist Party. It is true to say that the Socialist Party, over the past decades, has also dragged its feet in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u122	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u123	And, therefore, between a PS that drags feet and a PSD that hesitates, the Liberal Initiative advances, and advances to this project with confidence. [[Applause from the IL.]] And more than that. I dare even say that, in a future government solution coming out of the forthcoming elections, the Liberal Initiative will be the locomotive of rail development in Portugal and also of the high-speed project. [[Applause from the IL.]] It is therefore very important that you move forward with this high-speed project, even because the North Line is currently saturated and it is not a solution either, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, use it for high-speed purposes. It is necessary to make a segregation of uses, reserving the North Line to one who is the transport of goods and the transport of proximity, and thus to build the high-speed line, which can make a connection between Porto and Lisbon, then structuring the remaining investments on the railway. Portugal has to grow, the railway has to grow, the Liberal Initiative is here to grow Portugal. With the PS, the country spent almost nine years watching the trains pass. It's time to move! And the Liberal Initiative here is, with solutions and competence, to execute these and other projects that make Portugal grow, towards a better future. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u124	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr António Topa Gomes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me to begin this intervention by a small account of the electoral campaign two years ago, in the district of Aveiro. I was the leader of the PSD, in Aveiro, having as direct opponent minister Pedro Nuno Santos. They all said he was a terrible opponent, because the maker Pedro Nuno Santos was spending some million euros on the Vouga Line, a very important railway infrastructure for the district. I decided, then, to make the distance between the headquarters of my municipality, Santa Maria da Feira, and the North Line, in Espinho, by bicycle, leaving simultaneously with the train. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I walked 15 km away, got to Espinho and waited 12 minutes for the colleagues who took the Voyguinha route.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u126	Or normal! [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u127	What's this maker, who doesn't care about reducing train travel time? [[PSD applause.]] What maker is this, who can't strategically think about Vouga Line and decide that it is fundamental to its inclusion in the North Line? [[All right!]] [[Protests by PS deputy Pedro Nuno Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u128	And here we come, we have a first big difference between PS and PSD : for PSD, metric will never be how many million we spend. For PSD, the discussion has to answer the following questions: how do I get time? What frequency gain? What regularity and punctuality? What level of comfort? What is the increase in the number of passengers? [[PSD applause.]] With the PSD, we will talk about rail network rather than railway lines. But let us look, then, at the so-called rail investment, at the many million investments promised and, above all, at the ability of the PS government to execute them. We focus on the mid-terms of the 2020 Railway: the complementary corridors are now an average delay of two years and three months, and continue to be delayed; the South International Corridor has a delay of two years and ten months, and it continues to be delayed, since in the Evora-Caia section six years and four months ago; the North International Corridor has a delay of three years and ten months; and the North-South Corridor has a delay of three and seven months and between Ovar and Espinho, a delay of four and four months. And keep going. And here, we have another big difference between PS and PSD: PSD is a framework party, for which the design and management of infrastructure presupposes a knowledge that has long seemed furnished by the Ministry of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u129	All right! [[Protests by PS deputy Pedro Nuno Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u130	In the PSD, it will not be surprising to know that an infrastructure starts by being planned, then designed and only finally built. And even before the end of construction, we have to think about its conservation and maintenance, a global analysis of the life cycle of the infrastructure. [[PSD applause.]] But let us now look at the CP and investments in circulating material: from the beginning of this legislature that was promised to purchase 117 trains. After two years of adjournment, the contest was launched, but it's going to come in now — stop! — in the course of litigation.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u131	What are you talking about? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u132	These trains would, at best, arrive in 2030, but it will be later. Whose fault is it but the PS government's incompetence? [[PSD applause.]] And still this weekend, we heard the current Secretary-General of the PS boasting that CP had made profits in 2022 and announced that it would also make profits in 2023. [[Protests by PS deputy Pedro Nuno Santos.]] It compels me to respect this House asking how the Secretary-General of the PS knows the results of the 2023 CP if this House only met those of 2022 in August. [[PSD applause.]] By the way, let us look, in detail, at the success accounts of 2022 and at the investment in circulating material. With an investment plan of more than EUR 125 million, CP implemented only EUR 22 million. It was a cut of more than EUR 103 million, a cut in investment of more than 82 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u133	What about now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u134	It is this investment cut in circulating material, a cut in the future of the CP, which justifies the positive accounts today. We all know what brings us a cut in investment. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u135	Let us look at the biblical allegory of the Devil, which, as we know, manifests itself in various ways. In Portugal of 2024, the devil manifests itself in health, with the endless queues of waiting; in education, without teachers; in justice, in housing and also in the railway we have. [[PSD applause.]] A train service that does not arrive in hours, which is not regular, which is not frequent and which, judging last year, has about 50 days of strike is certainly not the paradise announced by the Socialist Government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u136	We are talking only very briefly about goods. When I look at the PS and the goods, it comes to my memory the “Olivia Patroa, Olivia Costureira” rabula. The environmentalist PS wants the use of rail transport and the decarbonisation of the economy; therefore, the PS « Medinista », interested in the rates, finds it reasonable that the rail use rate increases this year 23 % and believes it is reasonable that railway charges are introduced in the Port of Sines. [[PSD applause.]] Today, the PS brought us the discussion about whether or not the PS is a responsible party and whether or not it is according to the PS as to the launch of the TGV contest. For the most distracted, we are in 2024 and Prime Minister Antonio Costa has been Prime Minister since 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u137	So what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u138	It is also true that the PS did not decide to bring here the debate on rail policy, it did not want to know which stops, which times, which are between the stations — nothing important was discussed here. But let's talk about responsibility then. A responsible government assumes its successes and failures. In the face of the disaster that is the railway with this government, when it had everything, everything, everything —... [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u139	It looks like Paulo Gonzo!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u140	... European funds such as never, an absolute majority, a broad consensus on the need for investment in rail — the PS has specialized in making excuses: it is from the markets; it is from the Passos ; it is from the pandemic in 2021 ; it is from the Block and the PCP, which has fought right ; it is from the war in Ukraine ; it is from the Public Ministry and Marcelo ; it is from the Vítor Escaria ; it is from the bars and bathrooms ; it is from the mechanics, it is from the reviewers ; and never, it is from the PS. [[PSD applause.]] As if we did not have any more apologies and work at least, Antonio Costa, after 2966 days in government — where the only known fact about high speed is the fact that the candidacy was dropped last year due to inadequate maturity of the project, and not because of the PSD — now has the tested narrative that 30 days of lack of PSD responsibility to fail everything. [[That's right! It's true!]] [[Protests by PS Member José Carlos Barbosa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u141	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt: the PS is government, it has an absolute majority and must do everything within its power to have these funds. [[PSD applause.]] As for the responsibility of the PSD, the President's response is crystal clear: «If it is mandatory to launch the contest to avoid losing these funds, I think that the country will not be able to delay the decision anymore. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u142	You don't believe it!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u143	All right! Supported!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u144	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are approaching the end of the legislature and I confess that I will return to my parish — Vila Mayor, in Santa Maria da Feira, 300 km — by bike, as I have arrived here. My despair with the inability to realize the Socialist Party is so much that here I raise the level of the challenge to Mr. Pedro Nuno Santos, Secretary-General of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u145	Look what he's here! He's here!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u146	The honourable Member promised, as Minister, that in 2028 there would be high speed between Soure and Porto. Yes, it is challenging - we will make the journey between Porto and Lisbon : I will ride a bike and Mr.Deputy will make the journey using a meter that is high-speed. I think I have to regret this challenge only because on March 10, the Portuguese will cry for a drastic change in policies. [[Greetings from the PSD, with Members standing up.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u147	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. To make it available on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor. [[PSD and CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u148	You're on a train to Madeira? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u149	Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State and Mr.António Topa on his intervention. I will give some notes and make some questions that I think are relevant, as a result of your intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u150	You forgot to greet the Assembly!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u151	First of all, I wanted to ask a very direct question, because, in favour of truth, the essential of today's debate is this: to seek a broad consensus in the Assembly of the Republic, in particular with the greatest party of the opposition,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u152	With us? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u153	... on a topic that is absolutely relevant. It is said, in favour of the truth, that this is nothing new: the PS has always made this effort, so that great works, large infrastructures, have a broad consensus. Moreover, on this subject, the PSD voted in favour of a National Investment Programme which was also at high speed. So this is nothing new. One of the key issues the PSD must answer in this debate is whether or not it is available to give this consensus, in the effort to launch a competition, so that the candidature of the TGV — which guarantees Portugal EUR 730 million — does not fail. This is the only answer Mr. Members of the PSD have to give this debate: whether or not they are available to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u154	All right! [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u155	I'm adding something that I think is important. You may be alienating the PS position on these matters so important to the country. I understand we're freaking out. In fact, we remember well that you privatized TAP in the twenty-fourth hour,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u156	Twenty-fifth! [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u157	...after the government has fallen, in a basement and nobody knows anything. We do not do this, Mr President, we want this kind of work, with this dimension, to have a broad consensus. That is absolutely essential. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Several PSD Members have been referring to the high-speed work in Portugal, but none of you have been able to clarify what the PSD's position on this is after all.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u158	About nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u159	They've answered twice!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u160	That's a tape!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u161	In fact, it is always the same, Mr President, the PSD is permanently in limbo — in limbo! We have no idea what you think! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u162	Come on, listen carefully!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u163	In fact, I'm going to tell you what you think. The Rio Rui, in an interview you did, said: « Good, TGV as in France and Germany, that is not what we want. Maybe a train that runs a little faster. The honourable Member went to that forum to say that it was necessary for this to go faster, that we do not pay attention to the times. Look, your previous leader said: « Well, high speed no, we don't agree with that, we want something that goes faster. Do not keep on seeking. ” The speaker showed the news he mentioned. [[PSD protests.]] They had another leader, Manuela Ferreira Leite, who said: « As a government, I will immediately redeem the TGV. Do not keep on seeking. ” I repeat: « I will immediately risk the TGV. » I didn’t want to know about the TGV. The speaker showed the news he mentioned.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u164	Oh, yes! [[PSD and CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u165	That's from the Historical Channel!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u166	And Steps Coelho, when he arrived at the government : « Government suspends TGV. Do not keep on seeking. ” Repeat: suspend TGV. The speaker showed the news he mentioned. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u167	The applause are not for the Rabbit Steps, they are for Carlos Pereira!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u168	Oh, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand this is embarrassing. [[PSD laughter and protests.]] [[It's embarrassing for you!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u169	Embarrassment is the minister who guards and is back there!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u170	It's embarrassing, like it's embarrassing when you don't know what to do with the airport: there's one leader saying one thing, another saying another. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u171	You want to talk about it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u172	It's embarrassing when you don't know what to do with TAP. It's a big embarrassment, we know that. I wanted to finish by making a reference that seems very relevant to me. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u173	This isn't going well for you today!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u174	They're quite fond of your intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u175	It's impossible to talk like that. [[PSD protests.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u176	You're right, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u177	They're quite fond of Carlos' intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u178	I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members who create the conditions for the speaker to continue his speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u179	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u180	Sir, let's wait a little longer. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u181	Even because you're not doing well!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u182	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u183	Thank you, Madam President. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD, I said that I ended up making a reference to what you both referred to as being late in the railway. We well remember what happened from the point of view of rail developments in the country. In fact, allow me, Mr António Topa, to remind you — you are a scholar, you like to read things, you like to be informed, and I do that too — of your Strategic Transport Plan, which I have read. In the Strategic Transport Plan in 2012 what did you want to do with the railway? [[PSD protests.]] I took notes so I wouldn't forget. You wanted to do the following: disable passenger services from the Cáceres Line ; disable passenger services from the Legion Line ; suspend the Corgo Line, the Tua Line, the Thame Line and the Ramal da Figueira da Foz. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u184	Carlos, did you bring the Bible? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u185	And it continues: disable the passenger services of the New Sales Line ; disable, by the end of 2011, the Alentejo Line ; disable the East Line ; disable the Vouga Line ; disable the West Line ; disable the Cacere Line ; disable the Tua Line, the Thame Line, the Corgo Line and the Ramal of Figueira da Foz. That's what you guys wanted to do! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u186	Was that the Bible or the notebook? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u187	The gentlemen have dismantled the railroad. [[PSD protests.]] Mr President, are you talking to us about delays? The gentlemen have dismantled everything, the gentlemen have left nothing! [[PSD protests.]] When this government arrived at the government in 2015... In fact, let me remind you, Mr.António Topa, that it was not just to dismantle. In addition to dismantling, in this fantastic strategic project for road transport,... The speaker displayed the document he mentioned. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u188	Is that the book of Jehovah? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u189	... you said that this was all very expensive—i.e. infrastructure—and that it was better to increase tariffs, because it was not sustainable. In other words, you simply don't like the railway, you don't want the railway, and you've actually dismantled the railway. But when we arrived in 2015... [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I know this hurts. This hurts, but you can hear a little bit and you can hear it quietly. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD laughter and protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u190	Mr Carlos Pereira, please stop your speech. We will expect the conditions to be created so that we can continue. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a fairly broad agenda today, but if you want, we will stay here longer than we will need.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u191	No problem. Then we went on vacation!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u192	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u193	Madam President, I am now finished more quickly because I realized that the souls are exalted and I do not want to be responsible for any health problems. [[PSD laughter.]] I just wanted to say that, in fact, this is what you did to the railway: they dismantled it. When we arrived at the government, we needed to accelerate things.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u194	Is it there in the Bible?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u195	There was a 2020 railway, which you had underfunded ; there was no money to make the 2020 railway. We found the financial means to make the 2020 Railway. There were problems, of course. We have never denied the problems and all the members of the government who participated have spoken openly about the problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u196	It's down there! Are you being punished? Get in the front!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u197	But at the moment, rail is a reality. Things are moving at a good pace — not as good as we would like — and the truth is that today you have the opportunity to do what you have never done, which is to face a project that is absolutely structural for Portugal and to ensure that, once and for all, it does not happen what Brussels has already said: if the competition is not launched, we lose EUR 730 million. And responsibility can be yours, it can be PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u198	Who's the government? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u199	Now created the conditions, I respect all of them — the ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Minister and the Secretary of State. Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u200	Madam President, I would like to take the floor to request that a document be merged and distributed. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u201	Mr. Member, is it to make an appeal to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u202	Yes, Madam President, exactly.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u203	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u204	Madam President, with regard to what has been said right now by Mr Carlos Pereira, the PSD will ask the Bureau to distribute this news on 26 June 2011, in which José Socrates delivered a REFER document requesting the closure of more than 800 km of railway line. You're here, sir! The speaker presented the above-mentioned news. It wasn't us, it was José Socrates! Do You Recall? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u205	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u206	Mr Carlos Pereira, is it also for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u207	Yes, Madam President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau, just to ask for distribution by the benches...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u208	Don't send me, please!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u209	... of something that seems very important to me to understand the focus of this debate, which is the Strategic Plan of the Transportation of the PSD and what is public, the high-speed plan, which was presented in September and which Mr. Ladies and gentlemen don't know and don't read, I don't know why. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u210	When the conditions are created, Mr.António Topa Gomes has the floor to respond to the request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u211	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us say that the debate is about high speed and therefore the answer must be, necessarily, fast. On the question of information, I must tell you that we have some, because in the last 24 hours we have bought all the newspapers. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests of PS Members.]] It was the only way we have access to this information and therefore do not boast about it. As for what brings us here, I believe that I have read from above the rostrum the crystall response of the President of the PSD. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u212	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u213	Whoever wants to walk around this is because you have some discomfort with this crystalline response. It can only be out of fear of failing and of wanting to get a guilty man. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u214	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Nunes, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u215	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, as a previous note, I would like to welcome the security forces here in the Hemicycle, which represent all those who are out there, in front of the Assembly, and those who are spread by the country to fight the shame that this government is and the way it treats the security forces, in particular the PSP (PSC) agents and the GNR ( Republican National Guard ) military. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But we are going to talk about the last 50 years, particularly the last interventions, and in particular the intervention by Mr Carlos Pereira, who spoke about the embarrassment of an PSD leader who was not in fact the same as another PSD leader in relation to the airport. With regard to the airport, I was reminded of Pedro Nuno Santos and Antonio Costa and of the embarrassment that the now Secretary-General of the PS had, in assuming the guilt, with that half-fall air, for the responsibility to have announced, when he caught the Prime Minister out of here, where he was to be made the airport. Mr Hugo Costa, you seemed to be presenting the Right Price.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u216	Just call yourself Fernando Mendes!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u217	You didn't ask me a question!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u218	It was numbers here and there, it released numbers on everything and something else, and we got to the point when we realized: the PS comes to make recommendations to the government. In other words, the PS, which today, by the number of Members, is the largest party in the opposition that this Government of Antonio Costa has had—is not today,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u219	What do you mean? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u220	... it is over the past few months, because of the betrayal that much of the PS bench has done to this government, over the past few months, but these are accounts of your rosaries, which, with more tie or less high throat, will be resolved at your congresses and in which we will not join— comes to make recommendations to the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u221	What does that mean? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u222	I was saying the CFP that 50 years are many years to solve this situation. We also heard Mr André Pinotes Batista,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u223	And you heard well! You heard me!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u224	... what was he asking: "Do you come or do you not come with us? Is the PCP coming or not coming with us? Do not keep on seeking. ” I remembered the speeches this weekend of the new Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, and I thought: « Where will Mário Soares be watching the fall of the red line with the extreme left? Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u225	Don't fill your mouth with Mário Soares!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u226	The extreme left, after all, from now on, became part of your lexicon. along the discourse we have the « now it is». But we are just over two months of new elections, we are two days away from dissolving Parliament, and you have remembered today:'Portugal as a whole. » However, what you do is Portugal all over, but I broke up. [[Risos from PS André Pinotes Batista.]] And let's go to the facts. As the Secretary-General — also a Member — Pedro Nuno Santos mentioned: « April is not fulfilled and we will fulfill it. » I don't know what they want to do, but look, I have a map here... The speaker presented the document.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u227	It's a sheet!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u228	... from the railway network until 1974 and from what was dismantled after 1974. They never historically turned off as much railroad as they did after 1974. So see there that April is that he wants to do and what he wants to do after 1974. [[PS protests.]] But you know what? It is the period of history in which the largest number of lines have been disabled. I would like to see, within the various factions of the Socialist Party — that in the last week alone is a joint one — how the Members of the Low-density Territories will explain in their lands how they are getting out of line. It's just that the National Railway Plan doesn't come out of paper!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u229	It is EUR 700 million compared to 1996!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u230	It seems that you have not been in the government for eight years and Pedro Nuno Santos has no responsibility at all! You do this cosmetic operation, from tie to neck high, but actually, it gives you the idea that it is a new shoe that has half a route inside. And I am going to tell you one thing: the only cosmetic operation that we hope will actually happen is that on March 10, you realize that it is 49 years old and that "high speed" is that you get out of here as quickly as possible. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u231	You guys? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u232	He's a bad-quality poet!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u233	Mr Tiago Antunes, Secretary of State for European Affairs, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u234	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In this matter of high speed, as in general with regard to structural investments in infrastructure and large public works, this Government has from the outset had a position to seek the greatest possible consensus. It is known as the Prime Minister, right at the beginning of government, has established as a rule that this type of infrastructure, which takes decades to realize... [[For the PS!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u235	With PS, it's tens of years!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u236	... and that they stay for many years, it was essential to ensure their approval by a majority of at least two thirds. Therefore, the first thing we did was to draw up a National Investment Programme, the 2030 NIP, which was negotiated, which was consensualized and that it was possible to approve in this House, I believe that by a majority of over four fifths. After that, a National Railway Plan was drawn up, which was in public discussion and was widely debated, not only in political terms, but also in Portuguese society. Therefore, there really is no reason for us to create artificial disagreements on matters that have been widely consensualized and for which there was an understanding that they are infrastructures that the country needs and that must move forward. Now says the PSD: "Ah, but we do not know the contractual model, we do not know the legal terms in which the high speed will advance. “ There you are, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry, but that can only be justified by a huge distraction. It is that in September 2022, when the high-speed project was publicly announced, in addition to the lines, the lines, the stations, the planned investment, etc. etc. etc. , was presented the contractual model that was planned to launch these partnerships to carry out this high-speed project. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Soon there were the reasons that justified the option by a contractual model and not by others. All this is public, at least since September 2022 — it is, in fact, still available on the site of the Infrastructures of Portugal — it is widely known, it is not worth creating doubts about matters which have been explained and re-explained for a long time. After that, what did you do? Large technical work was done, particularly in the assessment of the environmental impact. Environmental impact assessments were completed already in relation to the first two sections between Porto and Soure. A broad technical work was also carried out to prepare the launch of this partnership and the public competition, through a project team formed within the framework of UTAP, the Technical Unit for Monitoring Projects, as provided for in the law, with all the documentation planned, with all the basis of the assumptions of the partnership, with cost-benefit analysis, with the evaluation of the public comparator, with all the documentation required. And an opinion was obtained from the Mobility and Transport Authority. Therefore, all documentation has been gathered at the technical level so that we can be able to move forward now and finally launch this contest. As far as European funding is concerned, what we decided to do last year was to anticipate and soon submit a call for the Connecting Europe Facility fund to finance this project. At the time, what the European Commission told us was that the project met excellent conditions. He was quite well evaluated about his merit. Simply at the time, the conditions of maturity that justified funding were not yet met.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u237	You've missed the government's housework!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u238	They put the project in the sun!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u239	Why? For two reasons, Mr President: environmental impact declarations were not yet available, so the environmental impact assessment was in progress and there was still no possibility of financial implementation of the project; and the competition was not yet launched, consequently, there was no capacity to spend the money that would be financed under this mechanism.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u240	You've missed the government's housework!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u241	But the European Commission said: "This project is worth it. We want to finance it and, therefore, we will reserve EUR 729 million for Portugal. They are stored for Portugal, if you know how to take advantage of them, until next year's call. » That is, this year, right now. Therefore, at this time, the environmental impact assessments are completed, all the technical documentation, all the preparatory work, all the contractual pieces and all the legal procedures to launch the public contest, we truly have all the conditions to be able to benefit from this funding that is allocated to us, but which will only be allocated if we know how to present a successful candidature now, until the end of this month.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u242	Lack of the government's housework!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u243	So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have arrived here, with all the consensus that has been made, in political terms, in relation to this project, with all the technical work that has been completed, in detail, which has been done, with all the environmental assessment and all the preparation of European funding — which has been guaranteed and which is there reserved for us — were really lacking, on this day when we are here discussing this issue, to clarify a question which is strictly political. That was a real question of whether the PSD would continue to hesitate, not wanting to compromise, want to delay, and thus risk our country's loss of EUR 729 million — which is reserved, if we know how to take advantage of it by the end of this month — or if the PSD would take the responsible attitude and enable the launch of this competition, so that we can take advantage of this funding and move forward at this time. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] Fortunately, the PSD chose this second path and wanted to congratulate the major opposition party for having made the right decision, the responsible decision, for not having obstructed this project and for having abandoned its attitude to want to study and restudy, to want to launch working groups to study what is already more than studied, consensualized, prepared and known. Finally, it has given us the conditions for us to be able to move forward, so that we can launch this competition, so that we can take advantage of the European funding that is guaranteed, so that we do not waste European money that is reserved for Portugal, and that we can finally do what is required and that the Portuguese are waiting for, which is to advance at high speed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u244	Mr. Secretary of State, you have a request for clarification. To make this request for clarification, Mr Paulo Rios, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u245	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, your statement was more a confession than an explanation. It was a confession that the Government, up to 20 days from the end of the deadline, failed to complete the proceedings in order to present it in Brussels. It will not convince the PSD that it is a competent and responsible way of working to come, 20 days from the end of the deadline, to say: "O uncle, uncle, we have to be helped now. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]] And more: you won't have the PSD's excuse! We are there to sign, on behalf of Portugal. Mr Secretary of State, it was not entirely correct — and we must be correct — that, in the presentation made, possible models of recruitment were designed that were not defined at the time the project was presented to us. Therefore, Mr. Secretary of State, his explanation was a good confession and the Government once again was incompetent. And that's what we get. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u246	To reply, Mr. Secretary of State Tiago Antunes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u247	Mr. President, Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira, fortunately today the PSD took the responsible attitude and the PSD leader corrected the initial shot. But just a few days ago, the PSD leader said "we're just going to apply in Brussels, we don't need to launch the contest",... [[PSD protests.]] ... when what the European Commission has told us, very clearly, as well as all the interaction we have had with DG MOVE ( Directorate-General for Mobility and Transport ), either with CINEA ( European Climate, Infrastructure and Environment Executive Agency ), which are competent entities at European level to assess applications, it was that environmental impact declarations—which exist! — to ensure the maturity of the project justifying the allocation of this amount. The launch of the competition — the competition is ready to be launched — depends only on political will, it only depends on viability, because, as it is known, the Prime Minister, responsibly, understood that before the current political context would only advance with the launch of this contest with the announcement of the PS and PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u248	Ehhh...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u249	That is why, indeed, the question here was very simple: everything is ready, Mr President, everything is ready. The money is there for us to take advantage of it! [[Congrats from PS Members.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u250	So there's no excuse!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u251	I just didn't waste it. Fortunately, today we can rest because the PSD did not take the irresponsible attitude and did not allow us to waste EUR 729 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u252	Mr José Carlos Barbosa, from the PS Parliamentary Group, now speaks for one speech. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u253	Are you going to talk about buying the old iron? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u254	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: I've devoted part of my life to studying the railroad. in the first phase came about by passion — the passion of the first track of trains, the passion for pictures of trains, the passion for travelling on trains, the passion for working on trains. Then came the reason: the reason to understand why the rich countries bet on the railway; the reason to realize the need to bet more on collective transport to combat climate change; the reason to bet on the railway for internal mobility, facilitating access to the most disadvantaged and allowing substantial savings that, in practice, translate into an increase in income available to families.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u255	An increase of 6 %!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u256	And, yes, the train is also a means of opportunity for everyone. The train makes territorial cohesion and makes social cohesion. One day, Alexandre Herculano wrote a sentence that should serve as a lighthouse in the railroad. About the railways, I quote the following: "The means of transport of easy transit within any country are essential for the prosperity of a people and the advancement of their industry. The nations that really value their growth, aware of this truth, have given great importance to this. Do not keep on seeking. ” In the last eight years of government we have wagered as never in the railroad.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u257	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u258	And his owner: what we know today is that there is a minister, in the post-25 April, who bet on the railroad was even Pedro Nuno Santos. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u259	Oh, you've ruined everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u260	Allow me, gentlemen, to compare the model. There was the model of Sergio Monteiro and Passos Coelho that said: "Workers are fired and workshops closed. » From 1500 workers in the office, we passed to 1000. What was the result? Trains stuck at the office door due to lack of maintenance. [[PSD MP Protests António Topa Gomes.]] Do you know what the outcome was? Increase in suppressions, decrease in circulating material park. Then there is another thing that they have done: the increase in train ticket prices. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] What did we do? We introduced the PART(Tax Reduction Support Programme).
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u261	How much does it cost? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u262	What did we do, what did the Socialist Party do? You entered the PART.The result is in view of everyone. [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u263	You can't be talking on your feet, Mr. Filipe Melo!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u264	In 2022, CP ( Trains of Portugal ) had the largest number of passengers transported at the end of 20 years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Steps Rabbit had another solution, which was to take trains. In fact, since they talk a lot about fact-finding committees, it was good that they already opened an inquiry committee on the measure of 10 % of the Lisbon urban trains. In fact, the PSD did something unpublished in the world railway, escorted a train at the end of 15 years—two trains! — it is about EUR 16 million lying there in a park in Campolide. Shame, my lords, shame! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u265	Hey, hey! That has copyright!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u266	After a first stage of wagering in the Railway 2020 program, it is now time to move forward at high speed. And, yes, once again, my lords, it was Pedro Nuno Santos who managed to get this project to be consensual in society and, as we see, consensual here in the benches. Today, all parties, from left to right, support high speed. [[PSD, CH and IL protests.]] Today, in this House, I also want to tell you about the good Spanish example, which 30 years ago inaugurated the first link between Madrid and Seville. During these 30 years, Spain has been able to build about 4000 kilometers of high-speed network. Since 1992, Spain has had five presidents of government of two parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u267	It's the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u268	Being a structuring project for the country, the two parties were able to build bridges and, now, tunnels, leaving aside the political Mexicans. With regard to high rail speed, Spanish politicians are an example for all of us and now for all Europeans. The reflection I suggest today in this House is that we answer the following question: what do the Portuguese expect of us in the matter of high speed? for my part, I clearly answer: we need broad political consensus, because in society the issue is consensual and mature. By now, thanks to Minister Pedro Nuno Santos, who has made the subject consensual. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u269	Sure! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u270	To get an idea of the large numbers, between Porto and Lisbon, currently circulate by car 125 million people. If 20 % would choose high speed, we would have 25 million passengers per year, i.e. 68,500 passengers per day, distributed by 76 trains full, with 900 people each. If the operation were between five in the morning and midnight, it would give four full trains per hour, with a frequency of 15 minutes. A real revolution, ladies and gentlemen. and Mrs Deputies. There are also some doubts that need to be answered. In doubt that we should only renew the North Line to allow higher speeds, we respond with the lack of line capacity for more trains. Currently, 730 trains operate on the Porto-Lisboa axis, corresponding to 44 % of trains operating in Portugal and 92 % of freight trains. In practice, we have 'national 1 railway' and we are going to build a'self-railway', i.e. a line that will complement each other and create important redundancy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In doubt that we should build on a European bottleneck, we respond with the need for the new LAV to be fully integrated into the national rail network, bringing two great benefits: serving the cities in their central stations—in fact, the central station always represents the centrality of the city, without having to build new sections to these stations—and allowing the benefits of building a high-speed line to be shown to the rest of the country. The possibility of having combined services in both subsystems — conventional rail and high speed — will allow the benefits of high speed, in terms of journey times, to the 'fluent' lines of the Porto-Lisboa axis, extending the supply of services to the cities of the interior. In terms of time, it will not only reduce the journey time between Porto and Lisbon at 1h30, but for example, there will also be a reduction of time in about 47 minutes between the city of Guarda and Lisboa, or about 1h53 on the route Figueira da Foz-Lisboa, or 2h30 between Leiria and Lisboa. In doubt about the possible lack of transparency throughout the project, it is good to remember that the same is provided for in the National Investment Programme 2030 ( PNI 2030 ), approved by the PSD, and in the National Railway Plan. The version of the NIP was discussed in the Council of Ministers and approved on 29 November 2023. The National Railway Plan was approved in November 2022. To doubts about the PPP model (public-private partnership), the high-speed line is a PPP with regard to the design, construction, financing, maintenance and availability of the high-speed line. Such contracts shall have a term of 30 years and shall revert the infrastructure to the State after that period. It is recalled that this model was presented in detail in the public presentation of 2022 and, once again, the PSD leader preferred to walk on fairs instead of dealing with structuring projects for the country. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Salgueiro Mendes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u271	With people!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u272	I didn't have any trains to walk!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u273	The project is also divided into three sentences and has a clear explanation. in the first phase, we will have Porto / Soure. In the second phase, Soure-Carregado. In the third phase, Chargegado-Lisboa.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u274	You're loaded!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u275	Three-phase breakdown allows us to anticipate the benefits of the high-speed project, starting the use of the pieces as they are completed, i.e., whenever we finish a piece, trains can start to circulate and decrease the distance between Porto and Lisbon, substantially reducing the time. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, given that this is a more than studied and debated project, a financially sustainable project, what is requested here today is consensus and, now, good sense. I don't know if this will be my last intervention in this rostrum, but for the sake of the no, let me also mention another great figure of the 19th century, which maintains great modernity in the 21st century.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u276	Pedro Nuno Santos!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u277	I speak of Sources Pereira de Melo, which says the following: « I am so excited about the railway that, if possible, I would force the whole country to travel on the train for six months. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u278	Mr Rui Afonso, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u279	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have heard a lot about the Porto-Lisboa high-speed connection, but the debate cannot focus only on these two macroregions. There is an extensive strip of the country, mainly to the north, which clearly cannot be forgotten. The project for the new railway connection between Porto, Bragança and Zamora, with connection to Madrid, should be itself—but even! — priority, being an effective way to combat installed centralism, and it is therefore essential that the construction of this new link be included in the integration policies of the territory. It is very important that the connection to Madrid be completed as quickly as possible, so that the North region of the country can finally find the so ambitious balance between the interior and the coast. However, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the construction of this new railway line does not work alone if it is not properly accompanied by relevant regional policies. This will only make sense if it is complemented with integrated policies and activities relocations. For example, it would be essential for the State to bet more effectively on the decentralization of public services. But the most important aspect of this new railway line will be the fact that it serves as an important lever for the entire northern region of the country, making it the important corridor for cargo transport, thus removing many trucks from the road, with obvious economic gains and environmental sustainability. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We can make our exports through the Port of Legions, but if we want to reach the inner territories of Europe, such as France, Germany or other countries of Central Europe, this new railway line will give us a huge competitive advantage to road transport. The new line of Trás-os-Montes will allow you to place the port less than 3 hours by train from Madrid, Bragança a little more than 2 hours from Lisbon, and Braga and Aveiro a little more than 8 hours from Paris. The necessary investment varies between EUR 3, 5 and 4, EUR 5 billion, but unfortunately there has been a mistake of this government in building this connection because this link, if excluded from the trans-European network, will result in more condemnation of the government towards the North of the country, towards this kind of decision, which will be conditional and condemned to a future of exclusive dependence on fossil fuel, with the environmental implications that this entails, also becoming a strong backwardness in the face of territorial cohesion. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u280	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u281	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs Members: Having come to this part of the debate, there are some notes we would like to leave. First of all, we have had a apparently very dichotomous debate between the right and the Socialist Party, which, in practice, in the reality of public policies, have little diverging with regard to rail policies. If we look at this kind of championship that existed here, at a certain height, between PS and PSD, about who has shut down more train stations or more railway miles, well, we don't want to be in this championship, at all, nor do we want to be in the championship of who is who most defends the PPP model or not. The championship where we should be — and this discussion should be focused on rail — was about how we reversed a trend that actually started in the late 1990s, which made Portugal, in 2022, be the first European country with a network of motorways larger than a railway network in operation. This was a mistake made for decades by governments of the PS and PSD and, therefore, this apparent dichotomy that has been created during this debate does not clash with the reality of what have been decades of disinvestment in the railway, which has brought us to the point where we are today, in which if we look at the Tres-os-Montes we realize that very difficult most of those cities may even think, in the coming years, of having access to public transport through rail. Until then, the government has made successive mistakes. When we talked about Railway 2020, it was the Vice-President of the Board of Directors of Infrastructures of Portugal, who in April 2023 said that the planning and schedule presented was, and I quote, « one shot next door ». It was admitted that what was presented would never be fulfilled, and it was already known that it would not be fulfilled. This was a mistake, as was a mistake the end of the REFER and the merger of the road with the railway in the infrastructures of Portugal. Everyone, at this point, realized that it was a very bad idea and who was harmed by this decision was part of the railway. In addition, if we look, for example, at the last legislature, we realize that the Government has ignored 60 % of Parliament's proposals to improve the railway: of the 77 points approved in Parliament, only 13 are being implemented, 19 may eventually see the light of the day, but 44 have been ignored. And, therefore, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about railways and defend what, in fact, has to be much more than an individual passion than any one of us can have — that, at last, may be important — but more than passion, we really need public policies. And who does not have the train because he lives in Chaves, or because he lives in Bragança, or because he lives in Viseu and, therefore, does not have the same mobility option as someone who lives in Lisbon, Porto, Leiria, or even those who lives in Lisbon, Porto or Leiria has consecutive delays in their trains, which means that we are not responding to the populations and therefore that is also why we will have to respond to the mobility policy that has been carried out in the last few years which Mrs and Mrs. Members, it has not differed much between PS and PSD. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u282	An informal protest!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u283	Mr António Prôa, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u284	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State : Today's debate, with the designation 'New railway links', is an excellent occasion to undo some myths about PS and rail. Yeah, the PS wants to talk about new connections because in the old days it has little to present.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u285	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u286	I will talk about the bad service and the trains that do not exist after more than eight years of socialist government. An opportunity to denounce the achievement of the action of the Socialist Party and its Secretary-General in rail transport. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, let's go to the facts: the punctuality and regularity of trains has worsened in almost all railway services between 2019 and 2022, and the number of trains has decreased. This is a conclusion of the report on the development of the national rail market, drawn up by the Mobility and Transport Authority. It is written in this report that during the period under review — curiously, the period of responsibility of then Minister Pedro Nuno Santos —...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u287	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u288	... there has been a deterioration in regularity in all services compared to 2019. In summary, according to the data of the Mobility and Transport Authority, during the consulate of Pedro Nunes Santos the railway service worsened. [[PSD applause.]] It worsened in punctuality, it worsened in regularity and suppressions, it worsened in the long course, in the regional and suburban regions. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us start by knowing whether the Portuguese are satisfied or at least less satisfied with rail transport. Here too we go to the facts : let us begin by looking at the data in the last report of the claims of the Mobility and Transport System, also of the Mobility and Transport Authority, relating to the first half of 2023. The claims in rail transport show an increase of more than 115 %, more than they have doubled. The number of claims in rail transport reaches the highest value in the same period since there are registers. Among the main reasons for the claim are strikes with an increase of 754 %, cancellation of services with an increase of 190 % or non-compliance of hours with an increase of 85 %. In short, regarding the satisfaction of rail users, the Socialist Government and its leader, Pedro Nuno Santos, were a disaster.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u289	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u290	But who are the users of the railroad? According to INE data ( National Institute of Statistics ), 171 million passengers per year are transported in the rail system. of these, 90 % uses suburban trains. Every day, suburban services in Lisbon and Porto are used by almost 200 000 people. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u291	The problems in the rail system are transversal, but they feel acutely in urban areas, where the service has been most degraded. A few months ago we watched the passengers of an overcrowded train on the Sintra Line, stopped on the road,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u292	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u293	...to jump into the line. A third-worldist image that is outraged and that should embarrass its leaders. [[PSD applause.]] This is the portrait of socialist management in the railway: bad service and without trains, socialist incompetence. Yes, the suburban railway service is desperate for new trains and what did the socialist government do in almost nine years of government? It took eight years to hire new suburban trains and, at best, there will only be new trains within four or five years. In short, with the worst rail suburban service provided, with hundreds of thousands of people who suffer every day, the government needs 15 years to meet that requirement. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the PS may well want to talk about new links, because old ones have been incompetent to deal with. The problem is that it is in these places that people move every day and suffer the incompetence of the PS government... [[PSD applause.]] ...and the face they want to present as a railroad worker. Worker after what? Workers of the delays in the works, workers of the delays in the acquisitions and workers of the delays in the competitions of an increasingly worse railway service that does not respect the users. In short, a socialist achievement. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u294	Mr Pedro Coimbra of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u295	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members: Brussels confirms loss of funds if TGV does not move forward now. The speaker showed the news he referred to.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u296	It's worrying!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u297	This is news that has been released in recent days in newspapers and it seems to me that it has been understood by everyone here. The launch of the public tender for the first phase of the high-speed line project between Lisbon and Porto on 18 January is decisive for the application of this investment to EUR 729 million of financing for Portugal under the Interconnecting Europe Mechanism and which ends at the end of this month. It is EUR 720 million which are at stake and which may be at risk of financing. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] In other words, Brussels confirms that Portugal will lose European funds for the construction of the Porto / Oiã and Oiã / Sor sections in the investment of EUR 3, 5 billion if the contest does not advance until January 18. This is what is at stake, and this is what is crucial to us. [[PSD MP Pedro Salgueiro Mendes protests.]] Of course, I understand that the PSD is not very concerned about this. Actually, he never was. In times, Durão Barroso bottled the project. At times, Manuela Ferreira Leite said: « As a government, I will immediately redeem the TGV. » Some time later, Pedro Passos Coelho said: « The project of the TGV is arranged. Do not keep on seeking. ” Well, what has the current PSD leader Luís Montenegro said? Today it seems that he has come to say anything different, a little in a hurry, and that Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira here brought as spokesman of the Democratic Social Party's bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u298	And very well!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u299	But until yesterday, Luís Montenegro said: "The country must postpone the decision. In other words, it must be the next government to decide, he said.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u300	The next government is the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u301	Let us see: in order not to lose EUR 729 million for high speed, the country has to launch an international public competition until January 18. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Salgueiro Mendes.]] We have legislative elections on 10 March.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u302	They're gonna lose!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u303	And the leader of AD says: « The decision is postponed. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u304	What about the government? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u305	In other words, Luís Montenegro transforms the acronym of AD NA to defer, D of decision — AD is equal to defer decision. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is what the PSD and the Democratic Alliance have brought back to this Parliament. Delaying the decision is what Luís Montenegro wants. Well, the country needs to make decisions. The country needs anyone who has the courage to make these decisions.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u306	Yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u307	If the Government of the Socialist Party had not made this way in recent years by the hand of Pedro Nuno Santos, if the Government of the Socialist Party was not in a position now to make this candidacy, what the PSD had to propose to the country is: "Once again the high-speed line is postponed, again the high-speed line is swallowed up and it is decided, in a few years, after much more studies and much more decades, to study this issue". So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Secretary of State, it is important to decide,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u308	Tell the nude! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u309	... important is to make the application and important is to implement this high-speed line, because it is important for the country and that's what the Portuguese want. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u310	Mr Bernardo Blanco, of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u311	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I listened carefully to Mr. José Carlos Barbosa, and we also want the country to ride a train, but I also recommend that you start by convincing your leader first, who still last week said that he had not been on a train for a long time and that he didn't even know the price of tickets. And it was also with some stupefaction that I heard that same leader and now the "god of trains", there in the last row the whole debate in separate, when it could perfectly be here, in the first row, to debate with the parties. [[Applause from the IL.]] The Liberal Initiative, as has already been said, is in favour of high speed, but this Socialist Party project that tells the PS Government to, please fulfill what the government should have done — meet the deadlines — is something, excuse, completely surreal and that should be ashamed of who wrote it. One week from the House to close, we will be saying, 'Please, Government, be incompetent, do what they could have done in recent years' is completely regrettable.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u312	You don't even understand the argument! It's a completely wrong line of argument!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u313	Facts!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u314	There is no greater sign of incompetence than the House closes with a project to ask the government to do what it could have done nine years ago. And, regardless of the advertisements and narratives they said today, the great work of Pedro Nuno Santos, etc. , the facts deny that and what people see is exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u315	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u316	A few weeks ago, and it was reported yesterday and today also here talked about by the PSD, what did the regulator say, the AMT? That there has been a deterioration in rail transport since 2019 : less and less trains and more delays. These are extraordinary results of Pedro Nuno Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u317	Facts!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u318	Hundreds of strikes, thousands and thousands of trains removed, complaints fired, people pay the pass and don't even see the money returned. Tomorrow, new strikes. Regardless of what this spectacular world has said, tomorrow people won't have trains.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u319	The right to strike is suspended!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u320	There'll be strikes, people won't have trains, they'll have to pay, from their pocket, vorries, taxis, walk, subway, whatever, and they won't have the money back.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u321	It's called reality!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u322	In the contract with the CP, no one knows the evaluation metrics well, there is no control of public service obligations. There is a public service contract, but there are no clear indicators of public service.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u323	Oh, Fertagus!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u324	No, Fertagus's is not the same, but we can talk about this next. Fourth point: the liberalized bus market today has much more offer and prices much lower than trains. [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u325	Liberalism works!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u326	I give this example because it happened to me yesterday. Yesterday, at midnight, I came from Porto, I also had to find a member of the Left Block, and who provided us with the transport was a private bus company because there are no trains. [[Protests of PS Members.]] Fifth point: Railway 2020 projects. It is on behalf of 2020. We are in 2024 and only a small minority of the works are completed. I would perhaps ask the Government here, in this case, what percentage of works are completed from the 2020 Railway, because last year the number I thought was 18% — 18%! -,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u327	At least 20 %!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u328	... when it was supposed to have reached 100 % by 2020. [[Protests of PS Members.]] We're in 2024, I don't know, it's got to be around 20 %. It's a completely disastrous number!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u329	They confused the year with the percentage!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u330	In 2024, we can also now talk about the 2030 NIP, which on this floor I bet you can have what? One or two projects completed in 2030? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u331	Don't bet, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u332	I bet the right goes to the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u333	We're already in 2004 and of the 15 projects, it was supposed to end six by the year. If they haven't even started yet, how will they end up for the year? Another point of incompetence. On the other hand, to go back to where we started, it's a loud incompetence that we've been nine years ago to launch this project and they've already failed a candidacy—and now they could also say who was responsible for the government, I don't know what would be, by this candidacy—in which there were actually no environmental impact statements. Why and why wasn't the contest launched?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u334	We have not failed any applications!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u335	Finally, you can obviously try to deceive the Portuguese during these 60 days, but the railway is the perfect area that demonstrates the incompetence of this government, in which there is a lot of propaganda and the incompetence is total.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u336	You gave a good minister of propaganda!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u337	If Pedro Nuno Santos was incompetent in this folder, it is impossible to have competence to lead the country. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u338	Mr Filipe Melo, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u339	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To hear the PS pull this issue the debate is still hilarious, starting with the drastic reduction in the number of railway kilometres since the PS is government. They're huge, they're huge! It's not worth mentioning here.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u340	Since April 25, we have been the ones who have increased!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u341	Take it easy! In 2023, with the abolition of trains, it was 32 500! Late trains were 51 200. And already in 2024, which is still starting, of trains deleted were 2150 and trains delayed 600. [[Protests of PS Members.]] Pure socialist incompetence in this matter—pure incompetence! — and the results prove it. I'm not the one saying it, it's the statistics. They're talking about TGV. There are issues that the PS should bring to the debate before starting to speak in TGV. First, who will be responsible for construction, maintenance and management? Dimam! [[PS Deputies Protests and PSD Protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u342	Or win the contest!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u343	Explain in what molds, explain in what molds! But I can go further. Mr. José Carlos Barbosa is very nervous, very excited. I will tell you that you are a good example of criticizing your own party. You have a debate with Prof. Fernando Nunes da Silva, who is probably the biggest understood rail in the country,... [[Protests of PS Members.]] ... and the honourable Member says: 'We give examples of previous governments that had their Trojan horse and their politics, but the Portuguese know the outcome of this policy. And they asked him: "What governments? Are you criticizing socialist governments? "Yes, yes, there are also some socialist governments. Several! » Most of the years he refers to are Government PS. And the honourable Member replied: "Of course, we cannot escape to reality. Do not keep on seeking. ” When a Member of Parliament attacks his own party, your incompetence is explained. He's here! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests and CH Member Protests Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]] This is the PS, this is the railroad. This is socialist incompetence, which is also extended to the railway. It's in every area! The railway is only another evident proof of the socialist failure and of which, fortunately, in March, the Portuguese will be released. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u344	We have concluded this stage of the debate and we will move on to the closing phase. To that end, Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u345	You've got one second!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u346	There's time for closure!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u347	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs. Members: At this point in the debate, I believe that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group would like to stress the need and, as far as we are aware, the realization of a broad consensus on the TGV project and, above all, on the use of the funds available for this great project for Portugal. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group naturally considers that high speed in Portugal is very relevant, not only for the competitiveness of the country, but also for the decarbonization of the country and, of course, for the cohesion of the country. Therefore, the implementation of this project requires, from our point of view—that said a little while ago and I repeat, it is nothing new to the position of the Socialist Party—a consensus, in particular with the major parties, but preferably with all the parties in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u348	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u349	This effort which has been made, the effort which has been made by all parties to give this consensus seems, in fact, relevant to us. I would, however, like to say, by responding to the Liberal Initiative, which you do not think, do not understand, do not understand why there is a draft resolution to build a consensus, finally, I would like to tell Mr. Eduardo Blanco that...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u350	Eduardo? Bernardo!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u351	It looks like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u352	Bernardo Blanco. Could be Eduardo Blanco, could be something else! White, Mr. Blanco,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u353	It was easier to apologize!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u354	... this is how consensus policy is made. Mr President, this is how consensus policy is made. The consensus is made with dialogue, with debate, building solutions, not in a row, in a bubble in which no one hears and talks about things without knowing how they are. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, the Socialist Party has built a solution for a consensus. This consensus is established and this is good news for the country. This is good for the country, because it will have the means to be able to have a great project that increases its competitiveness, increases cohesion and naturally increases the well-being of people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u355	We turn to the second item on our agenda, the debate, with the participation of the Government, on the priorities of the Belgian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, in accordance with the Law on the Monitoring, Evaluation and Pronunciation of RA in the EU construction process ( Article 4(1) ( c ). o Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August]. To introduce this debate, I call Mr Tiago Antunes, Secretary of State for European Affairs. [[Pause.]] Mr. Secretary of State, just a moment. I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members who create the conditions for us to continue with our agenda. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who are in the Chamber, I thank you for taking your seats. [[Pause.]] Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u356	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the beginning of the year Belgium took over the presidency of the Council of the European Union ( EU ), exactly 66 years after it also assumed what would be the first rotating presidency held by a Member State of the then EEC ( European Economic Community ). during this semester, and under the motto « Protecting, strengthening, preparing », Belgium will promote as priorities its presidency the defence of the rule of law, democracy and European cohesion, investment in the competitiveness of the European market, support for a green and sustainable energy transition, strengthening social rights and, in particular, health policies, the protection of individuals in a context of growing insecurity, as well as the affirmation of Europe as a global actor. The Portuguese Government is generally looking at these objectives and is confident that the Belgian Presidency will lead with skill and proficiency the destinations of the European Union in these challenging times, and that when the mandate of this Presidency comes to an end, within six months, the Members of the next European Parliament have already been elected, a truly decisive choice for the future of the Union. What will be at stake in these European elections, as well as in several other electoral acts that will take place throughout 2024, is not a small thing. It is the European Union's ability to remain faithful to its founding values, to the dictates of liberal democracy and the rule of law, and to continue to develop and deepen the process of European integration in multiple areas. What is at stake is nothing more, nothing less than knowing whether the European project will be a hostage of selfish populism and nationalism or whether the spirit of solidarity, communion of purposes and the design of shared peace and prosperity that were among its people will continue. It is in this context that until the summer we will discuss and approve, also under the auspices of the Belgian Presidency, the strategic agenda for the mandate of 2024 - 2029. The main axes of action and master lines will then be determined which will frame the activity of the main European institutions throughout the next Parliament. We are then considering this important task, looking at five topics which are expected to mark the next five years and which will therefore be on the strategic agenda. Firstly, the issue of enlargement, enlargement and internal reform of the Union, this dual ambition which means that progress in the accession process of the candidate countries must be step by step or synchronized with the reforms that the European Union needs in order to be able to host new members and function efficiently with more than 30 countries. Yes, because to be serious and consequential, it is not enough to support enlargement. It is also necessary to face, with the same clarity and firmness, the challenges that enlargement will inevitably bring. To hide these problems or to pretend that they do not exist does not help the cause of the candidate countries. It would only delay its full inclusion in the European project, so the new momentum around enlargement policy should also be accompanied by the same impetus in the restructuring of the Union at least three levels: in its main policies, particularly in the common agricultural policy and cohesion policy, which will be highly impacted by the entry of new Member States; consequently, in its budget and its sources of financing; and in its rules of operation and decision-making processes. Secondly, in the unstable world in which we live, marked by polycrises, by various wars at the same time and by the escalation of various nationalisms and extremisms, the issue of security and defence will be unshakeable on the strategic agenda for the next European mandate. To a large extent, Europe has been supporting its security in external actors, but this situation is no longer sustainable. in an international context marked by high geopolitical instability and various threats and conflicts in our nearby neighbourhood, Europe will have to do much more to ensure its security and to be more autonomous of foreign powers. Thirdly, it is precisely necessary to discuss the issue of strategic autonomy or, as we prefer, open strategic autonomy. An autonomy that does not set up an attempt for self-sufficiency. An autonomy that is equivalent to power, or strength, and not closure. An autonomy which, among other things, must go through the consecration of a genuine European industrial policy, which, in fact, has come to highlight the disruption of supply chains during the pandemic and the need for military supply as a result of the war in Ukraine. An industrial policy, therefore, that can provide Europe with critical raw materials and promote a structural stake in carbon neutral cutting-edge technologies in order to ensure that the European Union is not fully dependent on solar panels, lithium batteries or microchips produced in third countries. Fourthly, and related to what we have just mentioned, is the subject of the competitiveness of the European economy and the need to complete and strengthen the single European market, already with three decades of existence and one of the most important legacy of the Saudi Jacques Delors. The truth is, however, that in several areas there is still a gap of innovation, dynamism and competitiveness in the European economy. It is therefore with great expectation that we will await two reports of the greatest importance, which will come at the end of spring and the beginning of summer: the Letta report on the single market, and the Draghi report on European competitiveness, which will give us critical suggestions for Europe to be able to lead in the most sophisticated and value-added activities and to take advantage of the full potential of its internal market, with 450 million consumers. Fifthly, finally, a topic that will continue to be highlighted on the strategic agenda for the next mandate concerns the dual transition, green and digital. But we believe that the focus will no longer be on the goals to be achieved, or on regulation, before on the social acceptability of these transitions. This is, on the one hand, in the need to ensure that these transitions are fair and leave no one behind, protecting and supporting the victims of these transformation processes, which implies a renewed bet on the social agenda. On the other hand, in the need to find delicate balance between the new patterns of production and consumption and the more traditional economy, or the more rooted habits of life. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the challenges the European Union has faced over the past few years have been enormous, but those approaching will not necessarily be smaller. We need a Europe at the same time, able to overcome and evolve to respond to the hopes of Europeans, as it has been about 70 years ago, never wasting a crisis to move forward. In the name of all of us, for the sake of all of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u357	To ask your questions on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr John Paul Rebelo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u358	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members, Mr Secretary of State, today, as you will know, we have received in the Committee on European Affairs the Ambassador of Belgium, who has just spoken about the priorities of the presidency which has now begun. I would say, as Mr Secretary of State said, that we are perfectly in line with the priorities that Belgium has also set for its presidency, faithful to its founding values, to the founding values of the European Union, in this peace and prosperity project as it has referred to. As we have always said over the years, there is a need for solidarity from the European institutions, an intervention which is in fact perceived by the European Union and which responds to the problems of the Europeans, and this is done in solidarity, as was done in the fight against the pandemic, is not done as was done in the sovereign debt crisis. The Secretary of State has indeed put the priorities where they should be, from the very outset on the question of enlargement, with a once again cautious view and a precaution with which the Government in recent times has been talking about this in the European Councils. And now, I would like to remind you that the conclusions of the last European Council were joining precisely on a point not only enlargement such as reforms, that is, it is understood that, in fact, the new enlargement will only make sense of a reform of the Union's institutional and financial architecture itself, which will necessarily have a future enlargement, impact on policies, the common agricultural policy and cohesion policy, which are so important for our country. We are also in line with, of course, the need for reindustrialisation, if we want, of the European Union, and the commitment to innovation. We cannot, in fact, allow the European Union to be dependent on external markets and, therefore, we must truly produce, manufacture, basically provide what is the main needs of European countries and peoples in Europe itself, without this being a closure to the rest of the world, which would obviously contradict European philosophy and spirit. But it is also necessary, as you said, to strengthen the single European market, which is in fact 30 years old, which has been very important for development, for the competitiveness of the European Union itself. Reference was made to the Letta and Draghi reports on the single market and competitiveness. They will give good clues, no doubt, to think of the strategic agenda for 2024 - 2029, but I would say, Mr Secretary of State, that we basically have to continue once again the great legacy that these governments of the Socialist Party leave at European level at the level of intervention in Europe. We have today, and I hope it will be absolutely consensual, a Prime Minister named Antonio Costa who has effectively marked European destinations in recent years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are talking about someone who has not only been influential in the determination of European policies, as it has been respected by all the intervention you have had over the years and, moreover, it is also very good to note in the fulfilment of these same policies, in the implementation of these same policies, and I will only refer to the PRR (Plano de Recovery e Resilience), which is so decisive to our country, in which Portugal once again stood at the forefront. We were the first to present the PRR, as it is known, at Union level, we were the first to receive the first reimbursement and we are now on the podium of the refunds justly of the PRR, in honorable place, due to the performance of the government, and also for that reason, Mr. Secretary of State, we want to congratulate you. I would conclude by saying that the European Union must serve the Europeans. That is, let us say, the main objective which the Government has pursued in this influence it has exercised at the level of the European institutions. Surely, we will continue this way. Mr. Secretary of State, very grateful for all the work you have done on behalf of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u359	Also on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to put to your questions, Mrs Cristina Mendes da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u360	Madam President, I would like to congratulate the honourable Members. Members, the Minister and the Secretary of State. Continuing on the path of my colleague, I would say that Portugal has really set a good example of the policies it has adopted, and I will make a reference to policies in the area of the social pillar. My first question concerns precisely the implementation of the Action Plan on the European Pillar of Social Rights and the information that is planned in the Belgian Presidency's action plan at a second summit to discuss the social pillar. I would ask the Secretary of State what is the objective of this second summit and what contributions the Portuguese Government is planning to make, given that it has closely followed all these issues linked either to the first summit held in Porto, or even to the 2023 Social Forum. on a second question, I would like to hear Mr State Secretary speak a little more about contributions and expectations regarding the Belgian Presidency's priorities for strengthening the social agenda and the health agenda. We are talking, inter alia, about fair labour mobility, mental health, sustainable social protection, but also about strengthening political actions to ensure a decent home for all European citizens and citizens, and also about encouraging work in the European Union in the field of health. Mr Secretary of State, it is one way to assume that these problems, such as the problem of housing and the problem of doctors in the field of health, go beyond the Member States and are a European problem. I would say that it will be a way of realizing that the Portuguese Government is in tune and will also make an increased effort in its policies to meet the problem of our continent. Finally, I am referring to the issue of migration and asylum. We know that the Spanish Presidency has finally been able to sign the European Pact on Migration and Asylum and that we now have to implement it as quickly as possible. I would say that the Portuguese Government has contributed to this process, taking into account the privileged position, particularly with official Portuguese migrants, but not only because of our position as a country open to free, inclusive and solidarity throughout the centuries of our history. We are talking about measures such as the residence card and the renegotiations of the Schengen Borders Code, but we are also talking about the possibility of return measures for some immigrant groups. At the meeting of the Committee on European Affairs today, Mr President-in-Office of the Council said that a European answer was needed for a European problem, when it referred to the problems of migration and to the thousands of lives that have been lost in vain and so inhumane way, which are not sympathetic to measures taken by different countries. What did we talk about? What contributions will Portugal make to a fair and respectful migration in the European Union, for human rights and life, not only of those who lead Europe in search of a life with dignity, but also for all of us, as a recognition of the importance of migration?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u361	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u362	We are — and I am finished, Madam President — all of Europe and all of us are also migrants. Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for the work and presence in this plenary. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u363	In reply, Mr Tiago Antunes, Secretary of State for European Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u364	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. João Paulo Rebelo, I thank you for your words. Indeed, I believe that Belgium, as one of the founding Member States of the European Union, will well understand what the European spirit is, which is the linkage of the European project to its fundamental values, the rule of law and the importance of democracy and fundamental rights. This is essential especially at a time when we see these values under increasing threat by several political quadrants who truly think differently, wish for another Europe and question these values. [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] It is therefore very important to reaffirm them - it will be very important for these values to be clearly strengthened and strengthened during this six-month period and it is very important that, in the forthcoming European elections, it is also possible to send a very strong message of adherence to what is the DNA(deoxyribonucleic acid) of the European project, which is, as Mr Deputy also said, a project of solidarity. Solidarity was expressed very clearly in the response to the pandemic, on the one hand at the economic level too, of the response to the economic consequences of the pandemic, where the European Union was able to respond to Europe, it was able to respond with a truly solidarity response, truly joint and correcting some of the problems which the response to the previous crisis, the financial crisis, sovereign debts had shown, as we well know in Portugal. So it has been shown that the European Union has been able to learn from its mistakes and has been able to correct them - it has been able to move forward, improve and really have a solidarity response here, sometimes breaking taboos, doing what was said to be impossible, mutualizing debt, my God, that thing that could not be spoken of. But it happened, it's in practice. This enables the implementation of the PRR which we are currently dealing with with with the most relevant practical consequences in our country and throughout Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This shows clearly what the European project is, the solidarity project also for the Member States and for those who are not yet, but who intend to be, the candidate countries. therefore the importance of enlargement has and has increasingly been acquired in recent months, much because of the dramatic circumstances that are being experienced in Ukraine, as it is known, but not only in relation to Ukraine, but also in relation to the other candidate countries, particularly in relation to the Western Balkan countries, which have been waiting for a long time, and it is important to give this message. But it is important — as I said recently and as you also stressed — to prepare ourselves for this enlargement. It is not enough to say, politically correct, that we are going to extend; it is really necessary to create conditions for us to receive these Member States and be able to function efficiently and, therefore, we have to deal very seriously with these reforms, and that will be a central issue during the Belgian Presidency and during the next European mandate. At the economic level too, we have much to do to strengthen the competitiveness of the European economy. I trust that, indeed, the former Prime Minister of Italy and former President of the European Central Bank, Mario Draghi, will make good contributions, as well as the former Prime Minister of Italy Enrico Letta, so that we can truly be more competitive and close this gap that still separates us from some more dynamic sectors of other economies and so that we can truly do so together for the benefit of Europeans. There is indeed a lot to be done in the reindustrialisation of Europe, in this industrial policy which is set in the vanguard sectors, in the most strategic sectors, selectively, and that is the way we have to go, both in Europe and in Portugal. All this will be the subject of this strategic agenda that we will discuss throughout this semester, under the auspices of the Belgian presence. We will make our contributions, as we have always been. We have an active and committed participation in the European project and we do not merely follow; we are truly in the front line in many discussions, contributing to ideas. Every year we have anticipated the Commission's own work programme, indicating national priorities, indicating what must be done at European level, we are afraid of important measures such as the establishment of a permanent crisis-fighting mechanism, which prevents us from finding ad hoc responses whenever a new crisis arises and we can have instruments that are instantly activated in the European arsenal to overcome these crises. We have also made contributions with regard to the reform of the European Union to prepare for enlargement. We are a very committed Member State and we try to have a proactive position in building this European project. We also do so, Mrs. Cristina Mendes da Silva, on a social level. In fact, the great theme of our presidency in 2021 was that of the social pillar, that of the social agenda, and therefore to keep this theme very strong on the agenda, after two years, we again held in the city of Porto, in May last year, 2023, the Social Forum of Porto, inviting all European social partners, all European institutions, all Member States and also candidate countries, to discuss the implementation of the action plan of the European Pillar of Social Rights and keep this topic very strong on the agenda. Fortunately, the Belgian presidency also shares this priority and will organize an important event, the Val Duchesse Summit, with the social partners during its presidency. This will also be a moment, given what will be the next mandate, the progress and the additional achievements we want to make in social matters during the next mandate, to launch clues for the strengthening and development of the European social model over the next five years. Then the Belgian presidency is also putting a very concrete focus on health, which is very curious because it is an area where treaties do not confer special competences on the European Union. But, as we saw in the pandemic, in view of the need, the European Union has moved forward, and European citizens have said very clearly at the Conference on the Future of Europe that they want more action from the European Union at the level of health, that they want the European Union to strengthen its presence, its intervention in this area, to ensure that European citizens have better health care, more access to health. So this is clearly an area in which we must move forward and we must respond to these hopes of the population. Finally, the honourable Member referred to the conclusion, even at the end of the Spanish Presidency, of the main legislative instruments that make up the new Pact for Migration and Asylum. It is important that there has been this agreement and that this step has been taken, because for many years we have been discussing this issue. The reform of the asylum system in the European Union was assumed to be a necessity, but it was difficult to consensualize, so that that agreement could be reached, so that the reform of that system could be carried out and that this legislative programme, called the New Pact for Migration and Asylum, could be concluded, was a positive aspect. Of course, this agreement is not exactly what we would like most. Portugal has been characterized in this area by a position of humanism and solidarity, which is unfortunately not the one we have heard in many sectors, in many countries, by this outside Europe. And, therefore, we would really like this agreement, in some respects, to have had another content. Nevertheless, we support it, as a whole, because it is important for this reform to be done, it is important to move forward and, above all, to think about concrete people, to avoid the recurrence of tragedies in the Mediterranean Sea, to work with the countries of origin and the countries of transit, to think, above all, as the European Commissioner responsible for this matter said today, that Europe will need 1 million immigrants a year in the future — that is what its economy needs, that is what its economy calls for. Therefore, we must also look at legal, regular, safe, migration channels. That is the way, with an always solidarity position, of humanism, which in Portugal has been captained by the Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs, and that is the way forward. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u365	We need kids! We need children, not immigrants, Mr. Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u366	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Moniz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u367	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: Mr. Secretary of State today, the Court of Auditors has informed us of the implementation of the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) in respect of the benefits to the final beneficiaries, and we have learned that only 19 % of what was planned to be paid was effectively paid in the first two years, 2021, 2022. I remember the PRR closed in 2026. We have a serious problem, for which I have already warned in my last speech in December: either we take full advantage of the funds available to us, or, in the new budget architecture that enlargement will bring, we can, unlike being a net receiver of Europe's money, become a contributor. The first question I ask you is: in this Belgian presidency, what is the guarantee, what will the Portuguese Government have to do to ensure that enlargement does not mean the loss of European funds, as has happened so far?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u368	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u369	Because — and we remember that humiliating, unforgettable figure of the Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, taking the check out of Mrs Ursula von der Leyen's hands to go to the bank and be able to fulfill her obligation — if this money is no longer coming, because you have not created the conditions for the development of the country, it will be dramatic. And for us, it is still a goal to take advantage of every penny, because we do not have the conditions to waste them.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u370	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u371	Today's news disproves your unfounded euphoria, which was supported by the intervention of the Socialist Party that preceded us.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u372	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u373	I have another question to ask you, which has to do with the war problem. The war will probably be prolonged. The Italian Minister for Foreign Affairs warned about the possibility of spreading to Europe itself and, as you know, with Brexit and with the fact that we are no longer counting on the British army, we have lost military operational capacity. The question I ask you is: in the next presidency, which is now starting, what alerts are, what concerns are, so that Europe also begins to think about having real operational capacity if the war unfortunately leaves the borders where it is now confined.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u374	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u375	Finally, as you know, it has been announced, President Charles Michel will leave the presidency of the Council, probably to be elected to the European Parliament. I ask you whether Prime Minister Antonio Costa, who is involved in a judicial investigation, will be a candidate to be considered by the European Socialists to replace Charles Michel. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u376	Also on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Nuno Carvalho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u377	Madam President, I welcome you, as well as the Secretary of State and the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The Secretary of State has put the perspective of the European Union's space within the new geopolitical challenges and, in this respect, it is clear that the main foundation and structure of the European Union, which is the single market, cannot be the only pillar in the future. We therefore look forward to the answer that the Member of the State can give, even for what my colleague Paulo Moniz has said, which concerns the new dimension of foreign and defence policy and the possibility of drawing together a common line of defence at European level — the existence of a European army — but also other kinds of challenges, as the Secretary of State has mentioned, concerning our economic security. in this respect, as you know, there is legislation that is being prepared and in which the Belgian Presidency may have a fundamental role, in terms of negotiation and gains of some advances to strategic economic security, based on the three pillars that are well known, at the level of external investment, at the level of exports, and also with an established criterion for investments, and this investment criterion should be made in geography where the European Union has no tensions, and where they cannot increase tensions in the future, and in goods that are, of course, crucial to the current and future development of the European Union, as semiconductors, also known as microchips. in this respect, I ask what steps the Belgian Presidency may take in the future on this so important decision, for which other countries, such as Japan and the United States, have already taken important steps. Finally, Mr Secretary of State, the matter of competitiveness, which you mentioned here, is very important. Do so even in the context of the expectations of the Draghi report, which will be coming out, and the question is whether it is actually considered that important steps will be taken for the European Union, as a bloc, to have a more competitive position vis-à-vis other countries, where the competitiveness of the European Union, compared with those of them, has been lost, as is the case for the United States, Japan, China, South Korea. In fact, in the last 20 years, this is one of the critical points which, moreover, is also expected to point out the Draghi report. Finally, and with the announcement by the President — and I say with the announcement by the President, because it is a personal note — I could not fail to take advantage of this parliamentary context, at this opportunity which has been given to me, this being my last intervention in this House, in order to, if I may, thank the colleagues who have worked with me and who have made me always commit myself to the maximum and to the honourable Members. Members of the other parties who, for their commitment, have also made me always devote myself to the highest and highest tastes. I hope you have felt this taste on my part and that it has never been a bitter debate, but, yes, productive and fruitful, which was how I felt. I am sure that in this House you have been of the best politicians, on the side of the PSD, and the best politicians on the side of who opposes the PSD, and I am sure that, as far as my party is concerned, the others who will come, we continue to count on the best politicians of the PSD. I, for my part and on my own initiative, will not integrate the lists. There are other commitments that have been made, but still I must say that, in the one who will be my role as Portuguese, I will be attentive to the 230 Members who will continue here and, as I should imagine, I will always be committed to my party occupying the greatest political space to represent my party and my country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u378	Mr President, I understand this as a farewell and therefore wish you the greatest happiness in the new stage of your life. To respond to requests for clarification, Mr. Secretary of State for European Affairs, Mr. Tiago Antunes. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u379	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Paulo Moniz referred to today's report of the Court of Auditors, which, however, I think he has repaired, concerning the implementation of European funds and the financial flows between the European Union and Portugal in 2021 and 2022, i.e. by 31 December 2022. We are in January 2024 and, therefore, much has happened since the end of the temporal scope of analysis of this report. What we know about the concrete implementation of the PRR is that Portugal has already fulfilled 102 of the milestones and targets provided for in that PRR — it is confirmed by the European Commission — which corresponds to 22 % of the Recovery and Resilience Plan, and that is, in fact, allowing Portugal to be one of only two Member States which has already made the request, which has already been confirmed by the European Commission and has already received the fourth payment from the PRR. Yesterday we learned about the promulgation of several decrees which were confirmed here in this House, concerning the reform of professional orders, which will also enable us to achieve another goal and resolve even more an amount of funding which was conditional upon the completion of this aspect. This is how we measure the implementation of the PRR, it is by achieving milestones and goals and therefore we are at the forefront of Italy, in this respect. As regards financial implementation, there is a known profile of financial implementation developments in any support framework such as the PT 2020, which will end up close to the full implementation of 100 %, because the last few years have been years of enormous implementation. The PRR has also been accelerating its financial implementation and therefore from 2021 to 2022 we doubled the rate of financial execution and, again, from 2022 to 2023 we doubled the rate of financial execution. It is now recognised by a number of entities, by the National Monitoring Commission of the PRR and even by the President of the Republic himself, that the pace of financial execution has been accelerating, in agreement, with what is the performance profile of these types of investments. As far as enlargement is concerned, it is indeed a priority. Now, Mr President, please clarify us: is the PSD position that, if this involves the cutting of 1 cent from European funds, is it already against enlargement?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u380	I didn't say anything like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u381	It should be clarified, because it has often been heard from the PSD bench critical to the alleged resistance or reserve of the government in relation to enlargement and the PSD presenting itself as the great champion of this policy. But now I see you already very reluctant,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u382	Resolute? Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u383	... already very suspicious that this will entail loss of funds and that you need to think twice. I would therefore be grateful if the PSD would clarify this position so that there would be no mistakes in this regard. As regards the security situation and the true situation of geopolitical instability that we are living in Europe and its borders, in its neighbouring vicinity, in fact, this implies, as I said in my initial speech, that the issue of security and defence and this pillar is very relevant, that European policy, which really needs a quantum leap. Especially if, as a result of the outcome of the US presidential elections, there is a lower commitment by the United States to NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ), it is very important that the European Union strengthen its capacity for intervention, stabilization and security. That, therefore, is a great challenge, surely a great challenge, which the European Union will face in the coming years. With regard to the choice of the next President of the European Council, Mr President, the only thing I can tell you is that the choice will be based on this novelty, which was the candidature of current President Charles Michel to the European Parliament, and consequently being elected, as it is foreseeable, will take office in the European Parliament in mid-July and will therefore leave his current functions as President of the European Council. In this regard, the only thing I can say is that the decision on the next President of the European Council will in principle be taken together with the other so-called 'top jobs', with the other main positions of the various European institutions at the end of July following the European elections and depending on what is the result of these European elections. As for António Costa, the only thing I can tell you is that he is highly respected, he is very well-known at European level. It is a personality which, through its intervention in recent years in the European Council as a bridgemaker, as having initiative, as seeking solutions, is in fact someone who is highly respected and very recognized in this plan. As for Mr Nuno Carvalho, I also wish you the greatest success in your future professional life and happiness. He talked about two topics. On the subject of economic security, it is known that the Commission has recently submitted a communication on this subject, on economic security, which projects a whole work plan, so let us say, in fact, that we strengthen the economic security of the European Union in several areas, in terms of investment, both inbound and outbound, in terms of exports, etc. This will therefore certainly also be a subject for developing, in this period which is missing until the European elections, but above all in the next Parliament, in the next European mandate. There are different ways of action, in fact, to strengthen, in order to have greater economic security on the European continent, without, however, and I would like to point out this point, that could, in no case, be equivalent to protectionism. We therefore do not need protectionism, we do not want a closed Europe, but there are, in fact, areas in which we need to ensure greater security, not only in the strict level of military defence, that I spoke about recently, but also in the economic sphere, of course. We must, above all, become more competitive. We must strengthen the competitiveness of the European Union. As I said, there are some sectors in which we do not actually compare well with other economies. There are sectors in which we see greater dynamism and greater innovation capacity, especially in the start-ups and entrepreneurship sector. We see until, at the beginning, for example, there are many ideas and many companies flourishing in Europe, but then, when the time comes to gain scale, many end up going to the United States or to other places where they have better financing conditions. So we need to solve that. In fact, we need to complete the union of the capital market, ensure financing solutions, so that those with good ideas can achieve them and carry out good business models and so that this can, in the sectors of greater value added, in the most dynamic sectors, allow the European Union to be stronger in the future. It is also a challenge that remains for the next Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u384	Mr Diogo Pacheco de Amorim has the floor to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u385	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The priorities of the Belgian Presidency, if reduced to the essential, are no more than that which has been the way of the European Union in recent decades, another step towards a federal Europe, with a gradual loss of sovereignty of its Member States. Mr Secretary of State, you will call this 'populism' ; I and the other Members of my bench call this'respect for national sovereignty and our independence as a state and nation'. [[Congrats from the CH.]] of the six priorities, I will focus on the first one, which essentially deals with enlargement of the Union. But for enlargement, as it is unquestionable — and I quote the text of this first priority — "it will be crucial to prepare the Union's policies, resources and decision-making structures". In other words, this enlargement means that, essentially, decisions are taken by a simple or qualified majority rather than by unanimity. This crucial change, to be made, we can only accept it if it is accompanied by the design of an institutional architecture — and I quote here statements by the Prime Minister, in the informal council of Granada — « based on the solid foundations, which are our common values, the internal market and the four fundamental freedoms, but open enough to accommodate different positions on Schengen, the euro area, security, defence and migration, among others. » An architecture that distinguishes, therefore, common policies and optional policies. Is the Government prepared to accept only enlargement of the Union if this institutional architecture is accepted and implemented? [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[At the moment, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u386	To intervene in the remaining time of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Pedro Pessanha has now given the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u387	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State : As you know, the recent conflict between Israel and Hamas and its possible escalation raise fundamental concerns about its effective impact on the continued support of the international community to Ukraine. With the continuation of the Russian aggression in its territory and even its intensification, Ukraine is afraid to lose the same level of US and European support it has received since the beginning of the conflict. This is due not only to the diversion of attention to the Middle East, but also to the prolongation of an endless war in Eastern Europe. in this sense, and on the other side of the Atlantic, the political situation in the United States adds another layer of uncertainty to financial and military support to Ukraine. Some politicians, because of the large amounts involved, have already openly expressed the reluctance to continue with this level of support, putting complex challenges, if, of course, this opinion becomes increasingly common within American society. While the conflict between Israel and Hamas demands attention and resources, it should be emphasized that the United States has a substantial military budget, which allows for simultaneous support to Ukraine and Israel. However, the allocation of resources and the prioritization of conflicts will always depend on political decisions. Having said that, it is important to ask the Secretary of State what would happen to this morally and militarily unarmed Europe without a clear and well-defined geopolitical direction if the United States decided to withdraw its support for Ukraine and, for example, choose a more isolationist policy. Will the European leaders be determined to dramatically increase the defence budgets and thus assume once and for all the full responsibilities of our collective defence? These were the issues I would like to put to Mr. Secretary of State and which must concern the presidency of the Council of the European Union. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u388	To reply, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u389	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Diogo Pacheco de Amorim, first of all mention that the Belgian presidency programme means another step towards a federal Europe. I didn't see that in the Belgian presidency's programme. I have seen, yes, important steps towards what I recently described as a 'European Europe', a Europe with a spirit of solidarity, a Europe that sets policies together for the benefit of all of us, a Europe that truly realises the ideal of 'union makes strength', which leads us further and allows us to develop truly projects that are of added value to solve problems that transcend national borders, which are problems that are from all over Europe, some even of a global nature, to have the right plan to solve them, the right plan to find solutions, which is that of Europe. We are more protected, we are certainly in a position to develop more in this European field, and that is why we certainly have full adherence to the European ideal and progress in the European ideal. These developments include, for example, in some policies, admitting that they are decided by a qualified majority vote. Not in all areas, not particularly in foreign policy, where there are reasons of prevailing national interest which can in fact justify maintaining a unanimity rule, but there are policies, mainly linked to the functioning of the internal market, which fully justify that this step is also taken and is decided by a qualified majority, preventing blockades and blackmails which have sometimes happened more and more, by some Member States, preventing progress in one area, often blocking a file, not because it is intended, but to obtain benefits from another side. That, in fact, is not the way in this Europe we want to go. As for the new European architecture proposed by the Prime Minister at the Granada Summit, it seemed to me that he agreed or that he could possibly sympathize with the idea, which I am very surprised to say. But if so, I am pleased because, in fact, what we have said is that an enlarged Europe needs a profound reform and needs to evolve in the way of what the Prime Minister, using a metaphor, has designated as a "multifunctional building", more flexible, with more differentiation. That is what we believe can indeed be the solution for this enlarged Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u390	Good spirits meet!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u391	As for Mr Pessanha, I have had a huge doubt. If I understand correctly, you have come here to be concerned about the risk of the allocation of resources to Ukraine by Europe in the near future. Well, do you know who's blocked that financial aid to Ukraine? Do you know who at the last European Council called into question the decision to move forward with EUR 50 billion in support of Ukraine? It was even Hungary, your inspiring state. So perhaps you have to talk to your partners in that country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u392	That's who the Prime Minister goes to the ball with!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u393	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Bernardo Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u394	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to congratulate the Secretary of State and the Minister. Mr. Secretary of State, I had five questions, I'm going to try not to take long. The first concerns a subject which we have also been discussing, with regard to the amendment of the form of vote in the Council, particularly in two areas, foreign policy and taxation. I would also like to know, in the context of this new presidency, how the Government will take a position on this matter. Secondly, I would also like to ask you about the new budgetary rules, which I would say that, having positive points and some amendments as well, allowing more flexibility for countries such as Portugal, in some cases, can work. But in the final proposal, too, I would like to ask you, in my view, what the Government is going to propose — if something is going to be proposed, of course — in the course of the negotiations that will still take place with Parliament. I would also like to ask you, then, about the strategic autonomy that you have spoken about and a little bit of a balance sheet of this legislation, if you think that Portugal's current relationship with China should remain as it is or if there should be some change of strategic scope, as we have proposed over these years. Fourthly, I wanted to ask you about innovation. Finally, Europe also begins to realize more and more — I would say that it is almost acceptable — that it is remaining behind, especially with regard to America and Asia. We have seen an example of this — unfortunately, in my view — in relation to artificial intelligence. Europe was very pleased that it was the first to have an artificial intelligence regulation, but then we have nothing to regulate, we are regulating the technology of others. I would also like to know what the Government thinks about this regulation. I have seen other countries — for example, France — criticise excessive regulation on some points, which can be detrimental to innovation and competition. I would therefore like to ask you whether the Government has had the opportunity to examine this regulation and what its opinion is that it has on it. Finally, with regard to the European funds and to this report of the Court of Auditors on the PT 2030, I heard the reply given to Mr. Paulo Moniz and I was not entirely convinced about the reasons for the delay, but Mr. Secretary of State said - and he is indeed right - that the report is until the end of 2022, does not include 2023. I would therefore like to ask you whether the Government can tell Parliament what the situation is in relation to those nine months passed, to the first 13 notices which were issued in March, I think 400 million. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u395	To reply, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u396	Mr President, Mr Bernardo Blanco, as regards qualified majority voting in relation to foreign policy, in fact, we believe that there are reasons of national interest that justify maintaining a unanimous rule. As regards tax policy, in areas strictly linked to the functioning of the single market and to avoid unfair competition through taxation, we admit that it can make sense to move forward to qualified majority voting. With regard to the new budgetary rules, it was very positive that an agreement had been reached still at the end of 2023 between the Finance Ministers, as planned. This will make it possible to return, now that the general exception clause which was in force during the pandemic has expired, to the previous rules which were manifestly inadequate to the state of public finances in many Member States. We have had a very comfortable position in this debate, since the good situation of our public finances enables us to meet any of the benchmarks, standards and criteria that have been discussed during this negotiation. We believe, however, that, since it was positive that agreement had been reached, in order to avoid repeating the previous rules, the Commission's proposal was more interesting than the compromise that was later reached between the 27. We also have some fear that we have over-rigidized some aspects. However, there are very positive elements in this reform: greater recognition of the role of Member States in defining their adjustment paths and greater differentiation between the situation of each Member State, rather than a blind and uniform rule for all. Above all, it is important that these rules can end up having a pro-cyclical effect on a crisis situation. It is therefore important that the exhaust valves needed to give a budgetary response to a possible crisis have been guaranteed, so that we do not rigidize and actually create the risk of a pro-cyclical effect, which was our great concern. With regard to strategic autonomy, particularly with regard to China, it is known that there is concern of the European Union with some potentially anti-competitive practices by China. In fact, an investigation has recently been opened about electric cars. It is well known that there was also a very strong subsidiarity policy that virtually guaranteed a monopoly of solar panel production in China. We need to be careful about these aspects. We must investigate potential anti-competitive practices and, above all, we must become more competitive.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u397	When the problem was textiles, they didn't call any!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u398	therefore the tonic point I put in European industrial policy, in certain key and forward sectors, so that we do not depend, as I explained in my initial speech, on solar panels, lithium batteries or semiconductors produced either in China or elsewhere on the globe, and so that we can have these productions here, on the European continent. With regard to artificial intelligence, it is very positive that agreement has been reached on a regulation, the first global regulation on artificial intelligence, to safeguard and avoid some of the risks that this technology carries. But it is also important that this regulation does not call into question the development of technology. So there's a fine balance that needs to be found. Only later, in concrete application, will we see whether we have actually achieved the right balance in order not to stop innovation. But it is essential that there is clarity and stability regarding the regulatory plan for the development of this technology, because if we do not know exactly what the rules are, this does not encourage the development of this technology in Europe either. In Europe and not only because this regulation often follows the so-called Brussels effect, it has a global reach and, therefore, the rules end up being those which the European Union defines, and that is also beneficial for the European market. Therefore, there are benefits in being the first to regulate, especially to caution and to avoid risks. Of course, we must be careful to prevent this from jeopardizing the development and exploitation of all the potential that this technology holds out. As regards the implementation of the RPP, what I can tell you, Mr, is that the most recent data I have in terms of financial implementation, therefore payments to final beneficiaries or direct beneficiaries, say that we are currently worth EUR 3639 million. I believe that it is a significant value, with a trend, as I explained recently, increasing from year to year, always doubling the rate of financial execution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u399	To speak on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u400	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The presentation of the priorities of the Belgian Presidency of the European Union has shown that we are facing yet another political programme in which the European Union continues to focus on the problems affecting workers and populations, such as the cost of living, low wages and pensions, the impact of higher interest rates, the worsening of social inequalities and injustices, poverty or environmental degradation, realities that contrast with the huge profits of economic and financial groups and the tens of thousands of millions invested in arms escalation. A inhuman policy continues in the legislative process of the so-called "new pact for migration and asylum", which is genuinely criminal, or in the determination to respond, in the face of the tragedy of war in Ukraine, not with any contribution to a political solution, but with more missiles and more bombs to continue war, destruction and death. This option is therefore supported by the PS Government, the PSD, the IL and the Arrival. This is the continuation of a policy of imposition and subordination before multinationals and great powers, with the system of economic governance stressing unfair and insidious options of restriction on investment, development, sovereignty. New year, new presidency, new programme, but the same options that continue to be imposed on us, on the map of the supposed inevitability: the inevitability, before a war at our doors, of the deepening of militarism, of the policy of war and sanctions, of confrontation, of the strengthening of the term transatlantic axis; the inevitability, in order to fulfil the aim of competitiveness and the social market economy, to deepen the sacrosanct single market and, with it, the process of degradation, liberalization and privatization of public services and strategic sectors, and the deregulation and precariousness of labour relations; and the inevitability, in the face of the challenges we face, of some States increasingly and more and more sides of their sovereignty, of increasing the decision-making power of the supranational institutions of the European Union, and the inevitability of the field of political power by the economic power, to the issue of the so-called strategic autonomy of the European Union. In the face of the rosary of inevitability that today, as in the past, the leaders of the European Union have already become accustomed to us, the CFP responds that we must not remain between right-wing and extreme-right policies, because another way is possible and necessary: a path of peace defence, based on peaceful and negotiated resolution of international conflicts, breaking from that shocking indifference to the massacre of the people of Palestine, defending solidarity, the end of war and occupation; a path of progress and social justice, valorization and investment in public services and their professionals, with more rights, more and better wages and pensions; a path of cooperation between sovereign and equal rights states; a way of building a Europe of workers and peoples. Rejecting the supposed inevitability requires us to face the future with determination and confidence. In the face of each other's triumphalism and conformism, life is there to show us every day that the path of the peoples of Europe will be made of struggle and hope in a better future. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u401	To reply, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u402	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, it has not yet been agreed on the present and future of the European project. As I have mentioned several times in other debates, on other occasions, I think that we should avoid manicated views of the European project, this view that everything is wrong, that everything from Europe comes wrong, that are only problems. Honestly, there are challenges in a European project, of course. I think we need to have a realistic, balanced approach, and see not only how much we have to earn with our participation in the European Union, but also what we like for the European project to move forward differently or at other rates. Now, think that everything in Europe is bad, that there are only misfortunes and that the answers are all wrong,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u403	Europe is not the European Union!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u404	... honestly, sir, I don't think that's the right view. Mr. Deputy challenges war and militarism. Certainly, but it was not the European Union that took the initiative to create a war, to invade another country, to adopt a military approach that violates international law, which calls into question the international order based on rules. It was not the European Union. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] What the European Union has done is to join Ukraine, which has been invaded, which is a victim of an imperial, illegal act, an act that, in many respects, goes through war crimes and grave attacks.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u405	Resolve with two missiles! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u406	"We have to defend peace," he said. Certainly, peace is what we all want. Now, it remains to be known what the conditions are for creating this peace, with this absolutely belligerent and aggressive attitude on the part of a neighbour of the European Union,...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u407	That solves it with bombs! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u408	...and see what's going on at the border between Russia and Finland, for example. We must therefore, in fact, have a responsible position when we look at these matters. Of course, what we all want is peace; the European Union is a project of peace, it has been done to guarantee peace, but it is not enough to want it, it is not enough to say - we know that geopolitical conditions are very negative right now - and we have to find the answers to that effect.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u409	It's necessary to send more missiles there! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u410	He also characterized the European project as a deregulation project, workers' de-protection project, totally ignoring the European Pillar of Social Rights, the European social model.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u411	In the single market, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u412	It ignores all advances have been made, legislative after the legislature, in the protection of workers and in the guarantee of a model of work and economic development that is social and based on better living conditions, in better working conditions. I think there's no reason to be happy with everything. There is no reason to think that everything is done or that everything is good. But there is also no reason, Mr President, to think that Europe only comes bad things. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u413	He spoke in manicism, but that wasn't far away!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u414	In order to intervene by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u415	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Members of the House, Mr Secretary of State : We have begun a new Presidency of the Council, but these priorities, in fact, do not change much in the face of previous times. There is still no change or novelty in relation to some serious problems, which continue without any kind of resolution, nor can we even see any profound change in the functioning of the European Union in a number of ways. The first aspect I want to talk about has to do with migration policy because we are still very concerned about how we look at the European Union's migration policy. Moreover, the trend we are witnessing in several Member States is increasingly close to the extreme right to present, particularly in the European Union. Therefore, what we have been watching is not a way for a human migration policy, and it is sufficient to understand what is going on with bodies such as Frontex (European Border and Coast Guard Agency). We have already said this before, but I will repeat it, because it is important: reports and investigations on the systematic violation of human rights and cases of corruption over this organism continue without anything being done. Mr. Secretary of State said that one of the priorities is the defence of the rule of law. I ask what rule of law, when a body within the European Union systematically violates human rights. So this is the first question I wanted to ask: how long will the European Union's migration policy be based on a body that does not meet basic human rights and violates them? The second question concerns the following: in the context in which we live, in which we have two serious conflicts to occur, the fact is that the European Union has not been able to be consistent with the need for peace responses. What we have witnessed in Ukraine, as in Palestine, is a escalation of violence, but in the middle of it, the European Union cannot be consistent and has a clear dichotomy of criteria used for both cases. now, more than 20,000 people have been murdered in Palestine, including a large number of children, women, United Nations officials and journalists. War crimes continue to be committed, without the European Union having a strong say on the matter. Gaza has been experiencing an unsustainable humanitarian situation for several months. There is not only one safe place in Gaza: it is a scene of terror that has caused worldwide dismay, which has led to calls to cease-fire, but we continue without the European Union also having a strong word on the matter. We in the Portuguese Parliament have done our part. The obligation would be to continue to appeal to a joint diplomatic effort, as the UN Secretary-General ( United Nations ) has requested. We know that there are several countries that have also had some difficulty reaching this. Here in Parliament, the proposals for recognition of the State of Palestine have been rejected recently, so this subject also deserved a stronger word from the European Union. We know it doesn't come from there. The last issue has to do with choices on economic governance. In fact, we continue to see the same path as the Union. We have already talked about returning to rules that were absurd and that continue to be absurd — it has already been found that they were better when they were suspended. But we are again insisting on the debate on the rules of economic governance, which, in fact, hinder the possibility of countries growing. We are already living with this: social inequalities; increasing poverty; grave problems with housing; low wages; lack of investment in the most essential public services; profits only for those who are winning with the population crisis. And in this regard, there is not a single word coming from the European Union: neither this Presidency nor any other. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u416	To reply, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u417	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Pires, I have already had the opportunity today to refer to the EU's migration policy and, in particular, to the fact that an agreement has been reached at the end of last year between the European Parliament and the Council on the main legislative pieces which make up the New Pact on Migration and Asylum. This is very relevant, and we welcome that it has been possible to find this agreement, but we also like it to go through a little different lines. We would like to strengthen the humanist dimension and the solidarity of this regime and the European treatment of migration and asylum matters. in this regard, what we have systematically been defending at European level is a policy that fights trafficking in human beings; that avoids the repetition of tragedies like those we have seen, unfortunately, in the Mediterranean; that you work with the countries of origin and transit to ensure better living conditions in these places; that you also guarantee regular and secure channels of migration to Europe, that Europe, in fact, needs both for economic reasons—because, in fact, the biggest complaint of our companies today is the lack of labour— or for reasons of asylum. Obviously, there are even reasons for human rights and essential values involved, and these people need to be protected. Therefore, our position in Europe on these issues has certainly always been to push the more solidarityist, the more humanist side in a difficult context, in which not everyone really shares this same view. She is now subject to European law and is subject to the values of the European Union as regards Frontex. When there were suspicions...
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u418	But the investigations are there!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u419	... that some practices may not have been the most consistent, there have been investigations, there are ongoing processes. Madam Member, I certainly would not like some external borders of the European Union to be managed by Frontex rather than being managed by some countries. Surely, we would not have a better outcome on that path. Therefore, although it is in a European framework, which respects human rights, that matter is being dealt with. Of course, we share the concern about the situation in Gaza, from the humanitarian point of view. The European Union has strengthened and is available to strengthen its humanitarian aid, and it is important, in fact, to take account of the very dramatic situation that Palestinians in Gaza are experiencing. Moreover, Portugal, as it is known, has supported the United Nations' motions for a resolution that defends a ceasefire in the Gaza Strip. As far as the rules on economic governance are concerned, I have also had the opportunity here to refer to this matter. O, Madam Member, I just wanted to make it clear that this agreement for a new framework of economic governance was not to return to the rules that existed; it was just to avoid returning to the rules that existed, to establish new rules, which are certainly better. They are not, once again, those whom we would like the most, are not as positive as the Commission's original proposal, in our view, but surely we have a more breathable, more flexible framework of economic governance that addresses the situation of the Member States more and gives us more guarantees for the future than that rigid framework we had. So, fortunately, there was an agreement and we did not return to the previous rules. We have a new framework for economic governance to live for the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u420	To speak for the PAN, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u421	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Mr Secretary of State, with regard to the debate and preparation of the Council of the European Union, today we would like to speak to you about the priorities of the Belgian Presidency, which deal with the realisation of the green energy transition. With regard to the green energy transition, so that fossil fuels are left behind and a sustainable economy is promoted, the Presidency will be marked by the closure of new legislation, in particular the Net-Zero Industry Act. For the NAP, it would be essential to understand what position the Government will adopt with regard to the possibility of implementing industrial clusters, the so-called industrial valleys of Net-Zero, on the Natura 2000 Network, because no environmental impact assessment is planned. It seems to us that this is contrary to the principles that the European Union itself has been defending: either the implementation of the Birds and Habitats Directives, or the conservation of wetlands, or the strategy for the conservation of nature and renaturalization. in this sense, we want to understand what role Portugal will have and how it will be the sense of vote in this field. Obviously, natural values cannot in any way be sacrificed, even in order to achieve an energy transition, and it must be possible to harmonise these two interests. What contribution, then, will the Portuguese State, when called to pronounce itself, make? Finally, we cannot stop telling you about France and the new immigration law. We have already had a debate on this issue — which did not count on the presence of the Secretary of State — and we know that it will have a huge impact on the Portuguese community. in this sense, considering the impact of Portuguese residents in France and their descendants, particularly young Portuguese residents in France, we would like to know what role Portugal will play in this discussion and how it looks at this change. In Europe of the Schengen area and the Erasmus programme, these types of measures seem to us to be inconceivable and unacceptable. I wonder if the Government has already assessed the impact these changes will have on the Portuguese community living abroad and what will lead to the European Union's framework so that this can somehow be mitigated.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u422	To reply, Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u423	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, this legislation which is now about to end, at European level, was surely very marked by the realization of the European Ecological Pact, or the European Green Pact, which has different dimensions. Of course, it has a dimension that has to do with climate and energy transition, and that is very important. It is in this framework that the entire Megapacote Fit for 55 has been approved, as you know, and it is also in this framework that this legislative act is being discussed, the Net-Zero Industry Act, an act relating to clean industries, the cutting-edge energy transition industries. There are other dimensions, of course, that relate to the protection of biodiversity, the assessment of environmental impact, and that are covered by a wide range of European regulations and directives. Naturally, we need to make the energy transition and protect the climate, and we also need to protect natural capital, protect biodiversity and respect all environmental protection regimes in Portugal and the European Union. As far as the new immigration regime in France is concerned, of course, I am not going to take a decision here on a regime in another country, in another Member State. What I can do is to decide what has been — as I have already done in a large part — European policy for migration and what progress has been made in the conclusion of this New Pact on Migration and Asylum, which is a significant step forward. We wish that it could still be improved in one aspect or another, but surely it was something much desired, much understood as necessary, especially since the great migration crisis of 2015 - 2016. So having finally passed this step is very important. Of course, approving a legislative package does not solve the problem of migration; it is an important step, but the problem of migration is much more than just approving laws. We have great challenges ahead and we will remain very attentive at European level, but not in terms of the individual and sovereign regulations of each country, on which, respecting the sovereignty of others, I will not say, as I do not want others to speak about our national regimes. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u424	To speak on behalf of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u425	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State : We have talked here several times, perhaps in all the debates we have had on the preparation of European Councils and priorities for EU Presidency, about the question of the Hungarian Presidency, which would arrive in the second half of 2024 and which now comes with a toast, since Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Charles Michel, will present himself to the European elections in June and since the Secretary of State has just told us that the selection of summit positions of the European Union will be held only in July and can easily be delayed, as has happened in the past. This means that the Presidency of the European Council is exercised by the Presidency of the EU Council of the turn, i.e. by the Hungarian Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u426	What's the matter? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u427	You're so scared!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u428	The question is: how does the European Union present itself to the world and to itself with a government which is under a procedure for violating the values of the European Union itself? There is a clear violation of the values of Article 2. o. In what way, then, will the European Union tell the rest of the world that it defends fundamental rights, the rule of law and European democracy?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u429	What a horror!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u430	He's going to fight Hamas!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u431	This week, in the European Parliament, a resolution was submitted for the Council to move forward with a procedure of Article 7. the, in its paragraph 2, so that we can finally find out who assumes which responsibilities and who votes in favour or against.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u432	It's Hamas' fault!
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u433	Perhaps we do not have enough votes to make this article effective. This should have been dealt with for many years now, but the essential question is how the Portuguese Government will vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u434	To reply, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u435	Mr President, Mr Rui Tavares, I believe that, on the question of the President of the European Council, there is every opportunity to ensure a direct transition between the current President and who will become the next President. If not, the replacement rules are internal rules of the European Council, which are adopted and may be amended by a simple majority. So there is a whole range of possibilities, but I believe that there will be no delay and that it will be possible to make that decision in due course. With regard to the mechanism of Article 7. as is known, Portugal has participated at all times when at Council level the situation of human rights has been discussed both in Poland — I hope that this process can be closed soon — or in Hungary. We have been active participants in all hearings, specifically in Hungary, which was what they referred to. The procedure in Article 7. it has been open for many years, it is true, probably because there will not be a majority to make decisions, but it is a process in which we actively participate and that we accompany, with this key concern that the rule of law is not only a criterion of entry into the European Union that we require the candidate countries, but a permanent criterion of permanence, change redundancy, and participation in the European project. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u436	That is how we end this item on our agenda and we will move on to the voting period. I would ask the services which open up the quorum verification system and the honourable Members. Members to register when they can. [[Pause.]] I wonder if any or some colleague could not register electronically. [[Pause.]] Mr. Luís Soares is manually registered. [[Pause.]] They've all made it. We are therefore in a position to close the quorum verification system and to achieve the result. [[Pause.]] We have a quorum, we shall proceed to the vote. We will vote for the Resolution Project No 967 / XV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends the development of the procedures leading to the start of the Porto-Lisboa High Speed Line tender. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS, PS, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L and the abstention from CH.]] The draft resolution was adopted, down to 6. the Commission. Mr Rui Paulo Sousa asks for the floor to indicate that he will make a statement of vote in writing?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u437	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u438	Mr. João Dias Coelho asks for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u439	Yes, for the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u440	We will now vote for the Resolution Project No. 845 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Address the contribution and needs of populations and authorities to the impacts of the Porto-Lisboa high-speed line. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The draft resolution was adopted, down to 6. the Commission. We proceed to vote on the Resolution Project No. 970 / XV / 2. a ( BE ) — Priority of rail in Portugal. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and with abstentions from the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] The draft resolution was adopted and down to 6. the Commission. We continue with the vote on draft resolution No 971 / XV / 2. a (PAN) — Establishment of a working group with the task of assessing the implementation of the measures to protect and maintain the area of rape and veal in the implementation of the projects of investment in the railway provided for under the National Railway Plan, the Railway 2020 Programme and the PT2030. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PAN and the L and abstentions against the PSD and the CFP.]] We will now vote for the Resolution Project No. 972 / XV / 2. a ( PAN) — For the extension of Portugal's application deadlines to the Connecting Europe Facility and in defense of the completion of the Porto-Lisboa high-speed line, the TGV Porto-Vigo, a railway line from Francisco Sá Carneiro Airport and the connection of all district capitals by rail up to 2030. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PAN and L and abstentions from PSD, CH, IL and PCP.]] Will Mr João Dias Coelho also make a written statement of vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u441	Yes, on the last two votes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u442	We continue with the vote on draft resolution No 973 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Development of the Porto-Lisboa high-speed railway line. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L, the votes against the PSD and the CH and the abstention from the IL.]] The draft resolution was adopted, down to 6. the Commission We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 974 / XV / 2. a (L) — Recommends that the Government resume the international night trains Portugal-Spain. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the CH.]] The draft resolution was adopted, down to 6. the Commission. Mrs. Susana Amador asks for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u443	Mr President, it is to announce that we will present in writing a declaration of vote on the diplomas we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u444	There's no more records. There is information to be provided to the House. To that end, I give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u445	Mr President, it is in order to inform the House that Mr. João Azevedo Castro has attended by videoconference, the Azores, this plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2024-01-09.u446	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with no further questions, the work is closed. The plenary session of tomorrow shall consist of the legislative agenda required by the Arrival under Article 62 ( 2 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure, on the theme « Public undertakings intervened, especially in TTCs ». See you tomorrow, very good night. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 42 minutes.]]
