ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u1	I open the first 50th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Marek Pęk and Senator Waldemar Sługocki as the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Marek Pęk. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! In the last few days, three senators of our previous term have left us. On 23 November, Lygia Teresa Urniaż-Grabowska, Senator of the 4th term and member of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Immigration and Poles abroad died. On 2 December, Jerzy Kłoczowski, Senator of the first term of office, died, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. On 3 December, Kazimierz Pawełek, senator of the fifth term, died, member of the Committee on Immigration and Poles abroad and the Committee on Culture and Media. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of the dead senators. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord.]] [[They answer, "Let eternal light shine upon them."]] [[Let them rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The senator is asking for a break from... High Izbo! I would like to inform you that on 27 June 2017, the President of the National Regional Council of the Courts of Auditors provided the Senate with a report on the activities of the Regional Courts of Auditors and the implementation of the budget by local government units in 2016. It is included in print No 541. On 3 July 2017, I sent a report to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. The Commission of the Territorial Government and State Administration at its meeting on 29 November 2017 took note of the report and informed me of it. I inform you that the Sejm at its 50th second meeting on 24 November 2017 adopted all the amendments of the Senate: to the Act on the amendment of the Act on repatriation, the Act on the Charter of Poles and the Act on foreigners; to the Act on the amendment of the Act on aliens and certain other laws; to the Act on the amendment of the Act on the Protection of Mental Health and some other laws; to the Act on Tourist Events and Related Tourist Services; to the Act on the amendment of the Law on Road Traffic and certain other laws. Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that points 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th, 13th and 14th be considered, even though the Commission's reports on these laws have been submitted at a later date than referred to in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose changing the order of the 11th point: the Law amending the Law on Liquid Biocomponents and biofuels and certain other laws and consider it as point one. If I do not hear the votes against, I will consider that the House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. State Senators, I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2018 and consider it as point seven, after the point concerning the Corporate Income Tax Act. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? Senator Szymanski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd have a request to reschedule what's in paragraph 12, which is the law on the amendment of the Social Security System Act and some other laws at the beginning of tomorrow's day, which is probably after 4 resolutions... [[No, no. Mr. Senator, we have resolutions at the beginning of tomorrow, so we can't...]] I understand. That's why I'm proposing that he be after these resolutions. This is a motion motivated by the fact that Minister Zielenecki is going abroad on a business trip, and the point is to bring these responsibilities together in the Senate and... [[But it is up to the Minister to inform the Senate. Well, that's a bad way to go.]] I understand, but I'm still making that motion. [[It's not a good way.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u3	Well, I don't know if... Once again, tell me what is going on, which point of order would be after the resolutions. [[What is today in paragraph 12: the Act amending the Act on the Social Security System and some other laws.]] Good. Is there a voice of opposition? Does anyone have a different opinion? No. We accept this proposal, Mr Senator, although I would ask the ministers and the minister to make a different request. [[Rulewski.]] Who? [[Mr. Senator Rulewski.]] Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Me, too, on point 12th. I move that this point be deleted until the opinion of the Social Dialogue Council is obtained. This request was made in accordance with yesterday's work of the committee by all the social parties and it was confirmed that the Council did not take such a position because this draft was not addressed to this board, also confirmed by the government. In this situation, I propose again, Mr Marshal, that the point be deleted until the Council's position is reached, and, consequently, of course, the government's opinion, and at a time specified by the Rules of Procedure, return to the law and consider it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u5	I see. Thank you very much. I understand the senator's motion concerns point 12... [[Yes, sir.]] ...Law amending the Act on certain powers of employees of offices serving... [[No.]] So what's the point? [[Mr. Marshal, 12 o'clock.]] Twelveth: Act amending the Social Security Act and some other laws. Yes? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] And the deletion... Senator Martynowski, please. [[Talking in the O.R.]] But there doesn't have to be a vote of objection, because the senator is actually objecting to my... But you're welcome, Mr. Senator. [[I was just about to file a counterclaim, but if it's okay...]] Good. I'll vote for the senator's motion. Who's in favor of Senator Rulewski's request for... The proposal concerns the deletion of point 12: the Act amending the Social Security Act and certain other laws. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 Senators voted, 21 for, 52 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 1]] The point has been maintained. Would any of you like to speak on the agenda? I state that the Senate approved the agenda for the first 50th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the vote on the first point, i.e. The biofuels bill, we will proceed today after the session resumes after 4:00 p.m. To consider point seven, i.e. the law on special arrangements for implementing the budget law for 2018, we will proceed tomorrow. Tomorrow we will resume the session at 9.00 a.m. and consider the special resolutions on the establishment of 2018 year of events and institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, an adjournment will be ordered at 2 p.m. today. The National Assembly will be held at 3 p.m. to hear the message of the President of the Republic of Poland. Let me remind you that the list of senators will be drawn up in the lower smoking room at the meeting room of the Sejm. For organizational reasons, please take your seats in the Parliament hall until 2.50 p.m. I would like to inform you that the deliberations of this sitting may be extended by an additional day, i.e. 7 December this year I would also like to inform you that, in accordance with the information given to you in the convening of the meeting, in the event of the Sejm's adoption at the beginning of tomorrow's meeting of the Act amending the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Act for 2017 and the Act on the Market in Power and after the preparation of the reports by the Senate committees, the agenda of the 50th Senate meeting may be supplemented by these laws. I would like to inform you that the remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and certain other laws. Let me remind you that the vote on this bill will be at 4:00 p.m. The text of this law is contained in print No 661, and the committee's report In the letters Nos 661 A and 661 B. I would ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Józef Łyczak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Invited guests! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Senate Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development a report on the work of the committee on the 50th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on 23 November 2017 amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and certain other laws. The Act aims, among others, at: implementing in the Polish legal order the provisions of Directive 2015/1513/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 September 2015 amending Directive 98/70/EC relating to the quality of petrol and diesel fuels and amending Directive 2009/28/EC on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources. With regard to the proposed systemic changes, the proposal introduces instruments aimed at adapting the current regulatory framework to the current situation on the fuel market. The corrective action is particularly important in the context of a significant increase in official fuel demand, which is the result of an effective reduction by the current government in the functioning of the grey zone in Poland. The purpose of the proposed amendments is therefore, inter alia, to: facilitating the implementation of the National Indicator Objective by reducing the real level of this obligation and thus reducing its costs, but at the same time ensuring the need for biocomponents at the current level, which is very important. The draft law, despite the corrections made at the level of the NCW, sets the need for biocomponents at a level similar to that reported in 2016, and thus does not lead to a deterioration of the situation of agricultural producers or processing industry. Moreover, there are no amendments proposed, e.g. the replacement fee, would further increase the demand for biocomponents to a level significantly exceeding national production capacity, which would result in Poland's dependence on the purchase of biocomponents abroad, and we do not want that. The most important changes made by Directive 2015/1513, are linked to the limitation of the use of biocomponents produced from cereals and other high-starch plants, sugar and oil plants and plants grown primarily for energy purposes on agricultural land as main crops, and to the increase in the use of so-called. advanced biofuels. The reduction in the quantity of biocomponents produced from these plants does not affect the freedom of Member States to determine their own path towards the required share of conventional biocomponents used in liquid fuels and biofuels within a total target of 10%. in 2020 In addition, it is desirable to achieve a high level of consumption of advanced biofuels in the European Union by 2020 in accordance with the preamble to Directive 2015/1513. Therefore, each Member State should promote the use of advanced biofuels and aim to achieve a minimum level of consumption in its territory by setting non-binding national targets, with a view to achieving them under the obligation to ensure that the share of renewable energy in all modes of transport is at least 10% in 2020 final energy consumption in transport in that Member State. The draft law also provides for changes aimed at simplifying the production of biofuels by farmers for their own use. Such changes have been made which enable farmers to do this without having to have a tax warehouse. The draft law also includes the obligation to inform the President of the Energy Regulatory Office annually of the activities which have led the entity concerned to be subject to the obligation to implement the National Indicator Objective. The Act shall enter into force on 1 January 2018, except as provided for in Article. 1 point (11) (a) b draft law on the added article. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1c and 1d on the possibility of including co-hydrogenation products in the National Indicator Objective, which will enter into force on 1 January 2020. Today, the fuel sold at stations must contain less than 6% biocomponents. This share is to be gradually increased to 8,5%. However, after the revision of the legislation, only 85% of fuel manufacturers and sellers will be able to implement standards and, in return, pay a replacement fee that goes to the environmental fund. The revision also opens the door to the use of advanced biofuels. This will allow the use of used cooking oil, animal fats, sugar industry waste, i.e. organic raw materials for the production of biofuels. Finally, the production of hydrogenated vegetable oils in co-hydrogenation technology will be allowed in 2020. This really is an ecological substitute for diesel. I ask the High House to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u7	Thank you very much. Now I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Andrzej Stanisławek, to present a report to the committee. And thank you to the senator for the time being.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The High Izbo, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on 29 November and this morning considered the Law on amending the Law on Liquid Biocomponents and biofuels and some other laws, print No 661. Senator Łyczak has very detailed this bill. The bill was unanimously adopted by the committee this morning. Nobody's made any adjustments. So that I ask you very much, Mr Marshal and the High House, to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u9	Thank you very much, Mr Senator, rapporteur. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. I know Senator Waldemar Sługocki wants to ask such a question. Just tell me who you're asking the question to. Please ask me to ask you this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The question is to Senator Łyczak. Mr. Senator, in your report, which you were very kind to present very competently, you spoke about, among other things. about the National Indicator Objective. This law provides for a 14% reduction of this National Indicator Objective in 2018 and 18% reduction in 2019. Was there a discussion at the committee meeting, where these values came from, why in 2018 it was to be 14% , in the following year, i.e. 2019, 18% ? Will this not affect the activities of those who produce biofuels in a negative way? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. You're still Senator Augustine. You're welcome, Senator. Who's the question? [[Senator Łyczak, too.]] The senator's here to see you, too. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u12	The first question is related to what you asked Senator Slugocki. Failure to fully implement these indicators, as you just said, will require a substitute fee. How will this affect the situation of entrepreneurs? And the other. I'd like to ask you about the cooking oil issue. If we put in such a general provision concerning the use of oils as biocomponents, will it not happen that we will create a problem for ourselves, because there will be no open gate for the use of fried oils and they will pollute the environment for us?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u13	Thank you very much, Senator. Do any of you senators want to ask the rapporteurs another question? No. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Here's what I'm gonna say. Correction in reducing the National Indicator Objective in one year by 14% and in the other by 18% That's how I understand it; I think that the government's representatives will possibly supplement this answer with the... That's certainly not gonna make the situation worse for agricultural producers. As I mentioned at the beginning of the report, the fuel package, sealing, limiting the operation of the grey zone caused more turnover, more legal fuel sales The increase is around 20%. Thus, despite this reduction, the level of consumption of agricultural products for the production of biocomponents will be maintained at the same level. This reduction is designed to make it easier for entrepreneurs, especially entrepreneurs... to reduce the price of production. Senator Augustine's questions. As I understand it, we are here about advanced biofuels. I think a government representative will answer more precisely. In my opinion, this is the perspective... This will enter production in 2020. [[May I have the floor, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u15	Yes, you can. You're welcome, Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, one last question on my part. Will this reduction of National Indicator Goals not adversely affect our commitments to the European Commission? Is this in accordance with the directive implemented under this law that the senator is presenting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u17	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I don't think it's gonna work, but it wasn't at the committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u19	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to thank the rapporteurs. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Energy has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Welcome to the meeting of the Undersecretary of State, Minister Tadeusz Skobl. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For the first time, I am among you so that I ask for your understanding. I will try to give you competent information on this case, which is being discussed here today. The question was, what would be the level of NCW in the following years, in the years 2018-2019. A level of 7.5% was planned for 2018 Now it's 5.6%. For 2019 8% was planned And it's over 5%. It was important from the government's point of view that the current demand for national biocomponents should be maintained at the level from 2016 to 2017. It is about 250 thousand t bioethanol and about 1 million 100 thousand t esters. As a result of the elimination of the grey zone, we have seen more than a 20% increase in oil consumption, which also resulted in an increase in biofuel consumption. In order to maintain this level, adjustments proposed by us, proposed by the government, should be made. Let me put it this way: with regard to the amount of oil in 2014, it was 10 million 480 thousand 617 t, in turn for 2018 we are already planning 14 million 503 thousand 393 t. The government's intention was to keep this state of affairs as it is now in the area of biofuels and biocomponents. I am talking about biofuels and national biocomponents, because this is the main strategic objective from our point of view, from the point of view of our government. If we had let this level stay today, reduced, biofuels and biocomponents from outside the country should be bought in. And that's our main motivation. We are doing this to protect the internal market. I think this is the main topic I wanted to discuss here. What would have happened if that bill hadn't been in place? We can imagine leaving these national indicator targets at the same level as before. What does that have to do with anything? This is due to the fact that the cost level of the fuel sector would increase by PLN 500 million, which would translate into an increase in the price of liquid fuels in Poland. And that is the second purpose that led us to lead the matter in this way. We leave 2020 at the level at which it is now, and that is because we need to implement this indicator imposed on us by the European Union. By 2020 there will be no more of the corrections mentioned here. That's the indicator target. There will be time to reach this level, there will be an opportunity to implement this at the assumed level. We are not afraid that it will be different, but in our interest, in the economic interest of Poland, is to make this correction, which has been proposed here.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u21	Thank you very much, Minister. Are there any further questions to the Minister? Please, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u22	Minister, I will raise two points. I'm trying to understand the government's motivation. I understand that it is similar to the motivation for preparing a directive that aims to save the environment and introduce biocomponents into fuels. Therefore, I do not understand why you simply oppose our national interests, our own interests, the objectives of this directive. I mean, the established indicators are to apply within the European Union, but we do not want to do the same with us. That is why I am talking about this, Minister, that this often happens here, as if the Union, introducing some negotiated rules with us, wanted to do us wrong and to spite us, and it is not. That's one thing. Secondly, please refer to the issue of frying oils, okay? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Tadeusz Skobel: Good.]] Because there's a question of the difference in VAT, etc. You're in, and this threatens, in the opinion of those who feel concerned about the serious consequences, such that there will be nothing to do with this oil, which is a serious matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u23	Yes. So maybe I'll start with these oils, because this topic has already been discussed, and I haven't referred to it. Oils are subject to the limit of double counting of biocomponents for the National Indicator Objective. In order to limit the grey zone, to limit the possibility of otherwise functioning, so to speak, these products, rather than the provision of the law, have been limited: in 2018 to 3% and in 2019 to 5%. That's the answer to the first question. You also asked me what it was like with this Union and why we... [[Mr. Marshal, may I ask you a question?]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u24	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u25	I'd like a clear answer. Will frying oil continue to be used as a raw material in the production of biocomponents, or will this act stop profitable and threaten to waste this potential raw material?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u26	This limit of double counting of biocomponents, to which your oil is subject, is given: 3% and 5% This is the value that remained unchanged in relation to the values adopted by KERM in 2016. This is the level that was. So that in this respect nothing new We're not moving in. As regards the issue of the European Union, the objectives set by us, by the Union, I would like to inform you that these objectives are set for 2020 and that we are to meet these obligations by 2020. And we are fulfilling these responsibilities in 2020. These amendments, which you have ahead of you, relate to 2018 and 2019, about the purpose for which the government introduces them, I have already said. In 2020 the transitional arrangements from 2018 to 2019 will no longer apply.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u27	Are there any more questions? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Tadeusz Skobel: Thank you. Thank you, Mr President.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of the senator... Oh, no one signed up. Great. I inform you that none of your senators have signed up... [[Voice from the room: Senator Augustine is now in the mood.]] Oh, right now, Senator Augustine's on you. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u28	I admit that I am not some particular specialist in this complex area, but I find it rather strange and not quite convincing, the justification that the Minister presented here, in terms of reducing our targets for the transitional period up to 2020. Perhaps not so much Minister, but rather the senator here said that the point is that we will then import biocomponents from abroad. Well, if we have an environmental goal and we want to achieve it, why not take this opportunity? Who says it's gonna be more expensive? Why do we justify this? Therefore, Minister, I asked the question: do we want to achieve these goals or not? I got the answer, yes, since 2020. It calms me down. But I don't quite understand this transition period. Because if the Minister explained to me exactly what would change during this transitional period, what are the incentives for us to do this missing... supplement this difference in the two years mentioned, I would be more calm and convinced. I didn't hear that. I would ask that, Minister, at a committee meeting, but it was unfortunate twice that the time limits for committee meetings applied. So if you'll excuse me, at this stage of the process, I'm raising this issue. And the second point, which the Minister is so quite handy. here he has reported and to which he did not answer directly, but it is a matter of frying oils. Perhaps... I cannot verify whether this is the case as in 2016. Speaking to me, I'm interested. Because I didn't make it up myself, I don't make fries, and they show that because of these regulations... If I understand correctly, Minister, the letter addressed to me is the result of a change in the VAT rate which is different for fry oils than for other edible oils. This is the treatment of the case in this law that creates a risk that this will be a different situation than in 2016 and that the directing of this cooking oil to the production of biofuels will be That's how I figured it out. The less cost-effective or simply exclude this potential biocomponent. But I'd ask for it. Perhaps the Minister will take advantage of this possibility, because only he can, has the right To refer to it. I admit that I would depend on whether to vote with full conviction in favour of this law, but not to support this submission as, in my opinion, unnecessarily restricting the speedier approach to the objective of the directive, and also excluding the possibility of using cooking oils as a biocomponent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u29	Thank you very much, Senator. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill under consideration will be held after the session resumes at 4 p.m. We proceed with the review of item two of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws. The text of the act is contained in print No 653, and the report of the committee In print No 653 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u30	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On 30 November, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances dealt with the Law amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and certain other laws. It was a government project. The Minister of Finance and Development has been authorized to present it. The Sejm adopted this law at its fiftieth first meeting on 9 November 2017. This law introduces a new split payment mechanism into VAT in the Polish legal system. It will be based on the fact that economic operators are a voluntary mechanism, which needs to be said at this stage. They will be able to enter this mechanism and, if they wish to enter it, a special VAT account will be created in addition to the billing account. The buyers will pay the net amount to the current account and the VAT amount to this special account. The trader will have a limited right to hold a VAT account. He will serve only for 2 purposes: to pay VAT and to pay to the counterparty, but only in the field of VAT. This is a mechanism to help combat VAT fraud. At the committee meeting, the Minister stated that it is expected that, after this mechanism has been applied in 10 years, the budget revenue will increase by PLN 80 billion. Of course, it was stressed that this process would take place gradually. The Legislative Office submitted 8 comments to this project. These were general, legislative comments. As a result of the Ministry's decision, some amendments were co-edited by the Legislative Bureau and representatives of the Ministry, 5 of these 8 amendments were accepted by the Ministry and 3 amendments were not accepted. And these 5 amendments, by the Ministry of Finance agreed with the Legislative Office, were accepted by the committee. Mr Grzegorz Bierecki and Senator Klein, as well as Senator Jacek Włosowicz participated in the discussion. There were many issues raised in the discussion. E.g. Senator Klein asked for the position of the Ministry, for the position of Leviathan. In this position, Leviathan raised one fundamental point, namely that the introduction of this split payment in the case of small businesses might make it difficult for them to maintain liquidity. The Ministry did not fully share these concerns raised by.Leviathana. Other issues that have been raised, for example. whether or not we're prepared for both... or the banking system That is what President Bierecki asked, and the tax offices are prepared for this new construction. The answer was that such preparation at least by the tax authorities is, and the arrangements with the system of banks and SKOKs, because these are the 2 institutions that will keep additional VAT accounts, are already at such a stage that this does not raise objections. This system, as I said, will be a voluntary system. The Ministry estimates that 30% should enter this split payment scheme in the first year entrepreneurs, in the second year 75% , in the third, 80% , and ultimately in 2022 a maximum of 90% business should operate in this split payment system. In conclusion, I can say that the committee recommends that the 5 amendments be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u31	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u32	Mr Senator, I would like to ask whether such a system operates in another European country. Another question. You say it's a voluntary system. I understand that it is voluntary for anyone who pays VAT and can deposit money in an additional account or not. But it is not voluntary for the person who receives this VAT, because here everything will be decided by his contractor. And if it touches some small company financially, as we're talking about... It's not by choice she'll be in this system, it's by choice of another company. So the company may be in financial trouble, but it's doomed to this system. This is not voluntary, as this is presented here. Thank you. [[This is the most important part of the discussion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u33	Mr. Senator, no one asked you if it was working in other countries. As far as I know, it's working. However, this issue was not raised at the meeting of the Finance Committee. When it comes to volunteering... Well, you know, the more entrepreneurs get into this system... Of course, for the second company, it will be mandatory for the partner. This is voluntary in the sense that at the very beginning it will certainly enter into very slowly and there is no statutory obligation to introduce such rules, there is freedom to conclude agreements or agreements between entrepreneurs. If someone doesn't like being in a system like this with a second entrepreneur, he's not gonna be running a business with that kind of entrepreneur. There's no legal obligation here. However, if we assume that ultimately 90% companies will operate in this system, it's the reality that will force things here. Yes? There's one more thing. Let us remember that the smallest entrepreneurs de facto do not pay VAT, so the net amount is a gross amount for them. Only after a certain threshold has been exceeded will VAT be paid. To sum up, I would like to say that the incentive for entrepreneurs is also to accelerate VAT returns. Those who enter the split payment system are legally guaranteed that VAT will be refunded to them within 25 days. It'll speed up some rotation. [[They'll get paid.]] For some group of companies, this will certainly be a problem, especially for those companies that borrow VAT in their current business, which means they use VAT to pay something else. And when the deadline for paying VAT is near, they can raise money for VAT while carrying out some kind of transaction.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u34	Are there any more requests for questioning? No. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Paweł Gruza: No.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u35	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The issue that my colleague raised here just a moment ago is the question of the voluntary adoption of the principle of separate payment, which was strongly discussed at the committee meeting. At the time, we had a colleague of yours who represented the government. I raised that question, too. My request is that... you are, as I say, engaged in this bill. What will be the relationship between operators, especially between service providers and service providers and small businesses? As a rule, we enter the system on a voluntary basis. Right? But if a larger counterparty chooses this principle of separate payment, then it will in some practical way apply to its counterparty, a small trader. What's the relationship gonna look like? And isn't there going to be a small entrepreneur? - which is also intended to be included in this principle. Is he going to be convicted... or is he going to be forced into the system right away?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! It's pretty simple, we've adopted a pretty flexible model. The flexibility of this model is that we give taxpayers a certain degree of freedom to shape their VAT billing technique. What about the other countries? For example, Romania now introduces a mandatory system for all, i.e. all the issues that you are talking about, are cut out there by a clear declaration that the system is mandatory for all companies: small, large, micro, medium, etc. We propose a voluntary system in the first stage. Of course, it is about voluntaryity on the buyer's side, because it is the buyer who is responsible for the so-called. jointly and severally liable for VAT. So if the buyer buys something from a criminal he did not identify as a criminal, he will pay him a gross amount, the State today applies to the buyer with a VAT refund request due to the unfair settlement by the seller. Therefore, voluntaryity, as a right to protect its interests and the safety of economic turnover, must be on the buyer's side, otherwise the system does not make sense. On the other hand, the flexibility on which we built it is that if the company really does not want to receive money under this mechanism, it can announce everywhere and against Also at the stage of the conclusion of a specific sale transaction, that it does not wish to pay in that system and therefore does not sell the goods. So we have a lock on the seller's side, and we have a right on the buyer's side. The law he's capable of defending against an unfair supplier. That's the point of the rules. So what you see as a flaw, from the perspective of an entrepreneur who has to find himself on the market, is seen as an advantage, because he can defend himself with this mechanism. And if the company really does not want to enter this system, it can tell all its customers that it does not trade on the basis of this type of settlement. Other countries adopt stricter mechanisms. As I said, in Romania on January 1 or a little later there will be a one-off entry into the mandatory system. It doesn't matter the will of the parties, either side or the other. In Italy, this obligation is built by the obligation of some public budgetary units to pay according to this mechanism to contractors, companies that have multiple problems with liquidity. Because we are talking about half a year's payback periods, and that is what we are discussing at the level of the European Commission. They're dealing with these kinds of problems, not 25 days or 60, as we have in the bill... Now in Italy, this mechanism has been further extended to some public companies. As a general rule, it can therefore be said that Europe is moving towards mandatoryity as regards the system. We keep our freedom. It seems to us that it is constructed properly. I would also like to mention another point. A small entrepreneur often competes with the price. That's the price. Because of the situation we have, it can be seen by a potential buyer as a symptom of the fact that it is a crime that this small one will not pay VAT and will finance the discount. Well, thanks to this mechanism, a small entrepreneur can be credible before a large one and say: of course, pay me according to the split payment mechanism and you generally have the VAT problem. Therefore, I believe that this solution does not have a clear negative connotation for small enterprises. On the contrary, a small entrepreneur can compete more freely with the price, because he does not have a fraud Odium on him when it comes to VAT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u37	Thank you very much. Are there any more... Senator Klein wants to know what I understand. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u38	Yeah, I'd like to ask you about these administrative responsibilities. Is there going to be a big cost on the side of a small entrepreneur who says he wants to get into this system right away? What costs will this little businessman bear? That's the first question. There have also been doubts about banks and they will be quite an important element of the whole system. In your opinion, are they prepared to introduce this system from the beginning, which is April 1st, or is there little time for this matter? This was also the case at the committee meeting. And the third question. I have announced that I will make an amendment to shorten the time limits for VAT reimbursement, because I do not fully understand why these deadlines are so long. They are 25 days or 60 days If you can see what's happening with this VAT. Isn't it a desire, to say, to be financed by the Minister of Finance for two or three weeks longer than it needs to be? Isn't there a way to shorten the time limits for VAT refund, if the Minister, so to speak, immediately sees this VAT in the payer's accounts? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u39	Thank you. As far as bureaucratic costs are concerned, I would like to say that we have worked very long to develop the technology of this mechanism so that it is as friendly as possible to the entrepreneur. For example, Romania has put in place a mechanism based on our first ideas, which in retrospect seem to us to be not the best. There, two different account numbers were simply created and the VAT invoice was paid twice: the net part to the net account and the VAT part to the VAT account. This is a bureaucratic nightmare that we have found inappropriate for our entrepreneurs. We created in the banking system such technological functionality that one transfer with VAT variable is made. So instead of making two transfers, e.g. in 100 zł and 23 zł, the entrepreneur will make one transfer, into 123 zł, and only write in parenthesis and the system will settle it itself when it comes to the accounts sending and receiving, according to the whole mechanic of the split payment. [[Minister, the bank system or the system...]] The system at the bank. This is based on the Elixir system, which will have an additional new functionality thanks to the fact that Elixir is Polish, we have some control over it and we can modify it, improve it according to our proposals. If only we had a European system, SWIFT... In 2010, the European Commission provided for the modification of the SWIFT system in this direction, because this idea is not original. Modification of the SWIFT system in this direction would take 15 years. We give ourselves a year to modify this system, precisely because we have some control over it, and because it is, so to speak, a Polish technical, IT and banking thought. The bureaucratic basket will simply be that the entrepreneur will add the VAT variable to the value of the transfer. This is, in our opinion, a minimal additional bureaucratic effort. We're in constant contact with the producers of accounting systems and... This possibility will be, so to speak, simply sewn up in the accounting system. So when a package of transfers goes from the accounting system to the bank of a given trader 'Cause that's what it looks like, these medium-sized entrepreneurs operate data packets, not single transfers. It is this package that will simply have included this VAT variable, so that it will already be sucked into the banking system and it will settle there. Therefore, accounting systems will be adapted to this, single transfer formats in banks will also be adapted to that. The bureaucratic cost is, in our opinion, compensated by the overall increase in the safety of economic turnover, which today must often be guaranteed, insurance companies must give guarantees on economic turnover, banks must give their guarantees, all of which cost the economy is inefficient. This model will reduce these costs, which will also improve the economic situation or improve the business environment. What is the preparation of banks? The preparation of banks, according to what the association of banks communicates to us, is uneven. There are banks that can adapt their systems faster, and there are banks with very complex IT systems that have more work, and there are banks that, for example. they took over other banks and have different systems inside one bank, which means that they have to either unify them and then modify them or modify two independent systems. So there are a lot of these stories at different stages of each bank. For the security of the system and functionality, we cannot make banks that already have this system and banks that don't have this system yet... Well, then there would be a payment congestion in the system. Therefore, it is considered a minor temporary shift in this mechanism in order to ensure that all banks will join or that the vast majority of banks will enter the system on the first day of the law. [[Are you suggesting, Minister, that the amendments to postpone the date of entry into force will now have the approval of the Minister? Because there was no agreement at the committee meeting...]] As for... yeah, well, if the Senate obviously thinks it's appropriate to apply... [[We wanted to make such an amendment during the committee meeting, but then there was no approval from the Ministry.]] Yes... Well, we... Please understand that we are, as it were, the object of two vectors. One vector is from the banking sector and it's talking about the imbalance in the preparation of systems in different banks, on the other hand we have the other. Entrepreneurs who even demand the introduction of this system as soon as possible so as to be able to use it and protect themselves from the uncertainty that is still in the economic system today. Therefore, we must balance these values. And, of course, we will respond to the amendments tabled at the Senate meeting. As far as financing is concerned, I would like to say that, of course, each split payment mechanism has its effect in the form of a certain loss of the entrepreneur's liquidity. There is no split payment system without this negative effect Because full access to these funds simply precludes this advantage from increasing the security of VAT trading It is therefore necessary to prejudice the right to dispose of the funds collected in the VAT account. With regard to the very time limits proposed by the Act, I would like to say that they are quite ambitious on a European scale. Like I said, in Italy VAT returns sometimes come after six months or even later. And these are the periods that occur in Poland only in the case of such most difficult cases and suspicions of fraud or tax offences. The National Tax Administration has significantly improved the VAT reimbursement parameters over the last 2 years. So from the mean return rate, let's say, sixty days we went down to 38 days. That's a very important acceleration. And the sum of the so-called... return money, the sum of the VAT that entrepreneurs are waiting for, which has not yet been paid by the IRS, has also fallen, and indeed. This is a drop of PLN 1 billion, probably from PLN 3.5 to PLN 2.5 over the last year. So the sum of the backlog of the tax to the entrepreneurs is lower, and the rate of VAT return is higher in the sense that the trader is waiting less for VAT to be refunded. The time limits proposed in the Act are maximum. We need to test this system. I'm sure the real deadlines will be faster than the ones in the bill. If we are sure about the functionality of the system, we will be open to discussion about the normative narrowing of these periods.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u40	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Paweł Gruza: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Bierecki was the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u41	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During the drafting of the Act, we heard voices calling for an extension of the deadline for the entry into force of this regulation, so that banks and cooperative credit and savings banks are obliged to offer a split payment service from 1 July and not from 1 April. There have been many of these voices, many business organisations have called for this and, as it turns out, banks themselves are also asking for an extension of this deadline due to the need to adapt their IT systems to this activity. I therefore allow myself to make such an amendment during the debate. The second amendment I make is an amendment introducing in the Payment Services Act a regulation similar to that contained in banking law. The aim is to allow the use of direct debits also on accounts maintained by entities operating under the Payment Services Act. In fact, we are talking here about complementing the functionality of this system in such a way that it is not excluded from the possibility of offering split payment to institutions that participate in the payment system based on the Payment Services Act. So these 2 amendments allow me to make. They are expected by business environments and the banking sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u42	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm informing you... [[Senator's voice:]] Oh, and Senator Klain. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: Kleina.]] Kleina, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u43	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have been discussing this law for a long time at the committee meeting, hoping that the law can actually sort things out. It's been working for a long time at the Ministry, too. The Minister also said that certain concepts that were previously developed in the Ministry, according to the Ministry were not bad and that this original Polish project was adopted by Romania. But we hope that the law can actually sort things out and contribute to the fact that these VAT frauds will be much less. Of course, when you look at the details, then there are different doubts. They also appeared at the committee meeting. We also raised the question of the date of entry into force of the Act. I am pleased that the Minister accepts the amendment, and it will indeed be possible to move the deadline for the entry into force of the Act so that the banks, but also the entrepreneurs, can prepare better for this law. I make such a proposal to postpone the date of entry of the essential part of this law to 1 July next year. I also make 2 amendments to shorten these time limits for VAT reimbursement. I hope that the Minister will accept these amendments and that most of the Senate will accept them. This is mainly due to the fact that... In meetings with entrepreneurs it is clear that this period of VAT refund is still long. This was particularly evident recently, after the introduction of reversed VAT in construction. Small entrepreneurs complained very much about it, because they, as we know, issued VAT invoices without VAT, net, and all the goods they bought, bought with VAT. And very often these repayment dates were extended beyond the time limits allowed by law or lower order, sometimes it was six months. Of course, the tax offices have always had reasons, and that is to carry out some additional checks, and this is to provide additional explanations, and these deadlines could be extended. I was making a statement about this reverse VAT in construction. I received an answer that everything is okay that the deadlines are respected, but I have such satisfaction that 2 days after this negative response for me to this statement of mine I am aware that especially the opposition senators do not always respond as it is, because it was the decision of the Minister of Finance to acknowledge the opposition that small builders would be able to receive VAT refunds really quickly. In practice, it didn't work that way. I started asking, asking entrepreneurs and I know that these deadlines have been shortened, but it is still far from that date proposed or recommended by the Minister, because the Minister recommends that the tax authorities have shorter reimbursement dates. Therefore, in conclusion, I am proposing these 2 amendments to shorten the deadline for the refund of VAT, because I am convinced that since VAT is visible to the Minister of Finance, to tax offices immediately because of this split payment, there is no need for Article. 1 time to return this was 25 days. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 108, which provided that it could be 60 days, could be reduced to 30 days. So I make such amendments, asking that the committee first and then the High House accept them. I mean to postpone the date of entry into force of the Act to 1 July 2018 and to reduce the date of refund to 15 days and 60 days respectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u44	Thank you very much, Senator. And you will be the last to speak, Senator Kobiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u45	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are talking about this law very calmly, while we are talking about giant money. There was no question or analysis of the amounts involved, but if this is 23% VAT, i.e. 23% economic turnover, this is astronomical money. I'll admit that manipulating that money, at least in me, gives you fear. At the Ministry, I see, there is no such thought. I agree with the Minister that this will affect the companies. Taking some of the turnover, some of the money will definitely touch companies, is just a matter of how much and how many. So the very real question is: and how many companies will have to declare bankruptcy after the introduction of this law? Did the State at the Ministry carry out this analysis? Have you considered where these people should continue to work, where workers should continue to work? It really is an action on a huge scale, even on an unimaginable scale. I agree that this law gives very good conditions to banks. Suddenly banks will receive a huge amount of money and, as I understand it, interest-free. Banks should issue this bill to the sky, while entrepreneurs In fact, it's the other way around. I don't agree with the idea that the company can choose such contractors who want to act as the seller will. There is no producer market in Poland. There is a trade market in Poland. If the network that sells for cash gets VAT immediately, then, of course, it will require its suppliers to act in such a way that they transfer VAT to a separate account. Because it's the trading network that determines the conditions under which it interacts with companies, with suppliers. So that the presumption that an entrepreneur will choose such contractors who will act as he wants is not true. It is the networks that dictate the conditions of economic activity in Poland. They won't have any interest in making sure that money doesn't affect a separate account. The networks collect money from a small customer and immediately have VAT. Of course, they will protect themselves by dictating the terms of their suppliers. This impact will indeed be very strong. I agree that this will in some way limit the possibility of VAT fraud. But there are two things to compare here. Will the economic risk that will cause many companies to fail pay off? How much do we gain from chasing those who cheat on VAT? I'm afraid that's the impression I have. I'm really sorry about the picture comparison. If there were laws in Poland that you could cut off your hand for stealing, you would report a project to cut off everyone's hand, because then you will certainly cut off those who steal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u46	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senators Bierecki and Klein. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u47	Thank you for your questions and comments. I would like to say that the split payment mechanism was, of course, the subject of a ground analysis of the macroeconomic department. The negative effect of the money flow is significantly reduced, and in many cases excluded, the fact and the possibility of transferring the money collected in the account to subsuppliers. The trader receiving the money may immediately spend it on purchases from his subcontractors. One second after receiving the money, he can spend it. Therefore, the turnover of money in VAT accounts can be traded in an unlimited number of times within a month. It is the only such functionality in the world, i.e. there is no other system that allows this type of operation. In Italy there is a full blockade, full VAT congestion. Italy praises this system. Entrepreneurs survived. Italy has even requested an extension of this unacceptable mechanism from my perspective. We have, as you might say, an anti-occlusive mechanism. When it comes to bank earnings, I want to say two things. Firstly, these accounts are interest-bearing, secondly, the trader may prepayment the VAT obligation. What does that mean? If the trader has the conviction that he has accumulated money in his account which is not used or lying down, he may pre-pay the VAT liability. Then he'll get a prepayment from us from the IRS. It's gonna be, I hope, more attractive than a place he could put in a bank. This will compensate him to some extent for the loss of payment. I would like to say that the Ministry of Finance has given full responsibility to the issue of the liquidity of entrepreneurs. The condition of the ability to pay the subcontractor was the first and fundamental condition for thinking about this reform. Certain legislative mechanisms are possible and we have introduced them, but some legislative things cannot be addressed. So we're going to try to solve the problems of individual companies that actually have a problem, and some aid and funding instruments. On the basis of BGK's activities, whether on the basis of the activities of other 100% state institutions We're gonna try to relieve this pain. However, I would like to say that if an entrepreneur finances his ZUS or the salaries of VAT workers a few days before the VAT commitment, it means that he is not the best money trading economy. And the cause of his bankruptcy will not be the split payment mechanism, but the overall state of his economy with money. We are trying to offer businesses programs that will help them get out of this liquidity race. The split payment mechanism is primarily intended to improve economic security in the country. And where we have a liquidity risk and a risk of bankruptcy, we will individually try to correct a situation which, as I would like to repeat, is not the result of a split payment mechanism, either from poor management or from difficulties in a given market, or for other reasons the type of over-indebtedness. I think we took full responsibility for this project. We ask the House to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u48	Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed to the third item on the agenda: the Insurance Distribution Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 652, and the committee's report in print No 652 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, our committee was working on the Insurance Distribution Act, Senate No. 652. The report is contained in print No 652 A. The Commission recommends that the High Senate adopt this law without amendment. Taking advantage of the fact that I am at the platform, I would like to inform your senators that I will be making 2 amendments to this law during the debate, which are in principle technical in nature and will facilitate the functioning of this regulation. These amendments appeared after the work of the committee had been completed, and therefore could not be discussed at that stage. The discussion at the committee meeting was very economical, few voices were heard in the discussion, perhaps because this law is the implementation of the provisions of the European Parliament Directive on insurance distribution in our legal order. The deadline for implementing European regulation is until 23 February next year. Therefore, the committee recommended the adoption of this law without amendment, in order to understand the circumstances. However, in view of the need for some technical changes, we will continue to work on this, and the committee will gather on this issue. I'm gonna make these adjustments right away by taking advantage of my presence at the platform. [[Thank you very much, Senator.]] So much for the report. The committee meeting lasted several minutes, we worked very well on it, there were no significant objections to the content of the regulation.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u50	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u51	I'd like to ask. Although this report shows that the answer will probably be negative Did you think about the article in more detail? 30, especially over the mouth. 1 points 2 and 5. I ask this because traders carrying out broker activities signal that this provision is not necessarily an implementation of the Directive, rather goes beyond the Directive, and may constitute a barrier to brokering activities. According to them, this provision may mean that brokers will not be able to provide non-distributive insurance services for these products or through subsidiary agents, e.g. with regard to insurance of employees or buildings, that it would be a problem at all... When we read these rules literally, it turns out that they do not take into account the development of the market for services and contacts with car dealerships that carry out insurance, with banks that conduct insurance, etc. Have you considered these issues?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u52	No letter from brokers' organisations has been received by the committee. The meeting was attended by the President of the Polish Insurance Association, who also did not raise this issue. Thus, we did not receive such a position before or during the work of the committee. The only comment from the insurance environment that has come to us and which has been verified very reliably by the committee before the meeting is the information about the expected delay of the date of entry into force of this directive, as several countries are asking for. It is said that on 16 December a decision is to be made at European Council level. I asked the Foreign Ministry to explain. I have received a satisfactory explanation, available to all members of the committee. If the deadline for applying this directive is postponed at European level, it will be mandatory in Poland, regardless of the time limits set out in our law. Perhaps for the sake of legal clarity, more for information reasons, we will then have to make some minor amendment to this law in order to make this date visible in our legislation. However, it will be in force under the directive if such a change is made. Thus, the committee decided not to discuss the change of the date of entry into force of this law in connection with this response from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As I mentioned at the outset, we are now bound by the obligation to implement this Directive by 23 February 2018. Nevertheless, if you are a senator 'Cause I understand the question comes from a letter from a broker organization... We are in the middle of a debate, an amendment can be tabled, the committee will be working, it will be gathering, we are still working on this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u53	Thank you very much. I don't see any more questions. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, Mr President. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u54	Minister, I will ask the same questions I have asked Mr Bierecki. First question: is it really necessary and possibly for what reason . Introduction into There it is said that a broker cannot remain in any contractual relationship with an insurance undertaking, an insurance agent or a subsidiary agent. Was this provision required by a directive, or is it our national idea? That's the first question. And the second, about the same article. Is it the ministry's intention that insurance brokers should at least judge some of them? They could not offer constant cooperation to banks, energy companies, telecoms companies, car dealers, large traders, etc., who distribute insurance when selling their products, so they are agents offering supplementary insurance? To me, foreign companies will be privileged to Polish brokers and this will result in... Most companies, large companies, will be offering their products on the occasion of the sale of their products. I mean, he's already offering these insurances today. So? Do we want this to be accessible exclusively to foreign intermediaries? Similar doubts are raised by point 5 of that paragraph in Article. 30. At least this group of brokers reads it so that no broker employee performing brokerage activities can own any shares in the company offering these insurances as, so to speak, an additional product. In the absence of a register of such companies And there's thousands of them. It is not possible to verify which company is in such a situation, and even more to enforce this obligation from employees. And these people really ask whether it is the intention of the Ministry of Finance that Polish brokers should not be able to sign agreements on ways of mutual settlement with representatives of foreign insurance companies. Is that the intention? I ask for an answer, because these issues were not addressed at the committee meeting, and I have to address them somehow.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u55	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u56	Thank you very much. This is a question that has not been regulated by the directive. The author of this idea is the Financial Supervision Commission. And it was thanks to the comments of the Financial Supervision Commission that this regulation was included in the draft. We considered that KNF, as a regulator, has sufficient knowledge to properly design legislation so as to avoid situations that he, the regulator, defines as dangerous to customers. That's how we understood it, and that's what we got from KNF. But of course, I can't judge. 'Cause the Ministry of Finance doesn't have enough information about specific events. What facts, what cases of brokers were behind this regulation. What you can say is that we have been convinced by KNF's argument that this regulation is needed from their point of view. And of course, as I understand and as we understood then, this law is universal, that is to say, it applies to all entities that operate on the Polish market, whether they are foreign or national. Therefore, we had no idea here that the rule of law would treat entities which are somehow dependent on a foreign entity differently, because it would be at least inappropriate. That's all I can say. I understand there's a discussion on this. Perhaps at the committee meeting, if there was such an opportunity, as the President said, it is worth asking, it is worth mentioning and asking the representative of KNF what events, what situations were behind this initiative. We are simply as if in good faith, assuming that the regulator has the right experience, knowledge and competence in this area, they have adopted this provision and for this reason it is in this draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u57	Thank you very much. I don't see any more questions. Thank you very much, Minister, for your answers. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The content of the questions resulted from the concern that accompanied me in connection with the article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. Thank you, Minister, for the answer from which we learned that this provision is not really a requirement of the European Union It's up to us whether we bring him in or not. and that the Ministry trustedly accepted the recommendation of the Financial Supervision Commission to introduce these provisions. I have limited confidence in the Financial Supervision Committee. I used to say ugly that at many moments, at such difficult moments, it was Because today these matters have already been dealt with by the Board of Appeal. But of course I'm not a professional. I would just like to say that the introduction of these provisions may result in all large corporations being operated by foreign brokers, which will ultimately result in support of the transfer of insurance to foreign insurance companies, not paying taxes with us in Poland. Such an indirect result can be expected from the introduction of these provisions, because brokers who have so far been linked, in any formula, to those entities that provide these supplementary insurances when selling their products, will not be able to be served by them, at least by agents offering supplementary insurance. Therefore, this provision would require an in-depth review. I wouldn't judge whether it's right or wrong, but it would be worth asking the Financial Supervision Authority... Mr. Chairman is here, and it would be good for the KNF representative to be... 'Cause that's the art. 5 will also, in my opinion, worsen the position of Polish brokers in relation to the position of foreign brokers, in respect of which these regulations will not apply. As a result, foreign brokers will be able to offer more easily the latest products that will be unavailable or difficult to access for Polish brokers. I don't think it's about Polish brokers being replaced by large foreign insurers in the long term, and such a danger is seen by brokers. It's worth leaning on. And in order to allow that to happen, I am placing on the hands of the Marshal an amendment concerning the article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, in particular point 2 and related points, so that this proposal can be carefully considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u59	Thank you very much, Senator. We've exhausted the list of speakers. For the record, Senator Łuczak made his speech in the minutes. I would like to inform you that the proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted in writing by the Senators Bierecki and Augustine. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? No. Thank you. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on National Tax Administration and the Law introducing the Act on National Tax Administration. The text of the Act is contained in print No 666 and the report of the Commission In print No 666 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u60	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Act amending the Act on National Tax Administration and the Law on National Tax Administration The Committee on Budget and Public Finance dealt with the Act on the National Tax Administration on 30 November. It was a government project. This law amends these laws in the context of the creation of the National Tax Administration Information Technology Centre. This centre was to be set up on 1 January 2018, but this law removes the rules on the creation of this centre and transfers IT tasks to the Financial Resort IT Centre. The tasks to be carried out by the KAS IT Centre under the head of the National Tax Administration will be carried out by the Financial Resort IT Centre which is already in operation. This change was dictated by analyses carried out. Following these analyses, it was considered that the transfer of these tasks to the Financial Resort IT Centre would be more effective and effective. Of course, investigative activities will be excluded from this, which so far will be implemented by the Technical Information Technology Centre in Opole. Other IT tasks that KAS performs today, which are carried out in the field by customs and treasury offices, will be carried out by the Financial Resort IT Center. Three legislative amendments were tabled by the Legislative Bureau to this law. They did not gain recognition of the Ministry of Finance. None of the senators took over, the bill was adopted unanimously without amendments. Neither did any of the senators at the committee's meeting participate in the discussion on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u61	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. The bill's draft... [[I have a question.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u62	Has it not been considered whether these data that are needed by the central government, the tax administration, could not be obtained in any other way without the acquisition of employees from these basic offices or tax offices by the central institution? Could these workers simply pass on certain data to the central institution without being subject to central sovereignty?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u63	Well, Mr. Senator, that's a question for the Minister. None of the senators at the committee meeting discussed this law, so it is difficult for me here to be responsible for the Minister, who is in the Senate. The Minister is the head of the National Tax Administration, so he is the most competent person to answer such questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u64	Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Yes? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u65	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to address the senator's question. Well, it's not about data transmission, it's about centralising all information systems to manage them efficiently. We initially predicted that this centralization of information systems would take place within the framework of the National Tax Administration, but it turns out that some IT systems also function in the Ministry. So it was about optimizing everyone, because they all serve one thing. Therefore, after a deep analysis, we came to the conclusion that it would all work more effectively and efficiently when all this was in one hand in the IT system. So that was the main reason for the delay. This was initially due to take place from 1 January 2018. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u66	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u67	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Well, it's actually such a change again after less than a year of validity of the bill, isn't it? How have these information systems worked before? Because right now you're moving them from the National Tax Administration to... to the Ministry of Finance, you can say, directly under the Minister of Finance, which means they're to be excluded from the Tax Administration. And how did these systems function before, I say, the National Tax Administration was formed?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u68	Before it was the National Tax Administration, it functioned in such a way that each competent tax office had its own system of 400, so there were 400 systems and also the ministry had its own system. Therefore, it was simply fragmented, and it was difficult to manage properly. Thus, during the process of the National Tax Administration Act, it was decided that all systems that operate within the framework of the tax administration, UKS and customs, should be in one hand. But the rest of the systems that work in the Ministry itself. So we came to the conclusion that, in the end, all of this is for one thing and it is about gathering all the data in one place. Because, as has already been said here, there are also some legislative solutions which are intended to lead to the sealing of the tax system. The centralisation of information systems is therefore one of the basic conditions of efficiency. Hence this change, to combine what is in the ministry with the centralised systems in KAS itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u69	One more question. Mr. Senator Klein. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u70	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'm sorry to be so inquisitive about this. But this means that during this year, IT systems have been harmonised within the tax administration, this one system has been created and this operation has been successful, and now you are joining this national IT system operating within the KAS, which is in the Ministry of Finance. So it's gonna be a simple operation by now, as I understand it. Yes? So what was fragmented, as we said before, has already managed to unify and run this one system?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u71	It's not exactly like that. This is a process. It's just that right now we're migrating all the data that are in the various tax offices, and this process is ongoing, and it's about to end. In addition, work is also being carried out to combine all data from the IT systems and systems that are in the Ministry of Finance. So that we just predicted that by taking this in a responsible and concrete way, it would take at least a year to just be able to do this job with full responsibility.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u72	Thank you very much. I don't see any more questions. Thank you... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Marian Banaś: Thank you...]] [[Voice from the room: One more question.]] Oh, there's a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question about how to formulate an article. 3 concerning the entry into force of the Act. It formally enters into force on 1 January, consists of two articles... And now so: the Act enters into force on 1 January 2019 with the exception of Article. 1 and most of the Article. 2. So if you look at this, 1 January 2019 is the date of entry into force of two or three subsections, and the whole of the Act actually enters into force on 1 January 2018. Why is it so strangely formulated?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u74	Because it simply doesn't rule out that... Certain activities, those typically organized, related to centralization, we can perform earlier, and the systems themselves will be centralised only on January 1, 2019. Hence the division.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u75	One more question, Mr. Marshal, about the location. Now, as I understand it, the Financial Resort IT Center will be in Warsaw. And where was this center of KAS supposed to be located?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u76	It was also to be located in the Ministry, because the Ministry is a large building and there are also rooms that serve the functioning of the National Tax Administration. [[So nothing will be physically transferred?]] So it's not going to be that the rooms change, it's a matter of management. IT systems operate across the country, and that doesn't mean that we're gonna pull some systems from one office and move them, say, to the ministry. This is just about building a system communications system that will be available from every point in the country so that we can have the data we need right away. And for that, you need a whole integrated system combined with those systems that are currently in use.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u77	Thank you very much. I don't hear any more questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Guarantees and Guarantees given by the State Treasury and certain legal persons and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 665 and the report of the Commission In print No 665 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Jack Włosowicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u78	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The bill on which the committee of the budget was sitting on 30 November this year is a government submission. This is an amendment of the Law of 8 May 1997 on Guarantees and Guarantees provided by the State Treasury, while at the same time amending two other laws: 14 March 2003 on Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego and 11 July 2014 on the rules for implementing cohesion policy programmes financed in the financial perspective 2014-2020. What does this amendment give us, what changes? It introduces a National Guarantee Fund based on a model of financing guarantees and guarantees for micro and small and medium-sized enterprises. This National Guarantee Fund is intended to be a permanent, systemic instrument to support the development of entrepreneurs using guarantees and guarantees for repayment of loans. This law creates a legal framework for the implementation of the previously announced "Strategy for Responsible Development" by 2020. The funds that will be included in this fund will come from several sources, among others. from the decommissioned funds: the National Credit Guarantee Fund and the EU Guarantee Fund. As far as the details are concerned, they will be set out in the Regulation. I am thinking here of the details of the conditions and modalities for the provision of assistance by the appropriate minister, the Minister for Finance. The Act is due to enter into force on 1 January next year. Maybe I'll just move on to what happened at the committee meeting. There was one comment from the Legislative Bureau regarding the deadline I mentioned. Even if we adopt this law at this sitting, a question mark will arise as to the possibility of its proper functioning from 1 January 2018. This is because it should be published by 17 December at the latest to keep 2 weeks of vacathio legis. So we put the President in some uncomfortable position because he would have to make a decision by December 17 and you have 21 days to do so. So that was a small legislative remark. At the committee meeting, one question was asked by Senator Kleina. The senator wanted to know what kind of warranty was given in the last five years. He received a reply that from 2013 to 2017 were amounts of PLN 7.3 billion; PLN 9.7 billion; PLN 8.9 billion; PLN 9.6 billion; and PLN 7.6 billion as of 31 October of this year. And these guarantees were 60%. the credit contribution. The Commission concluded its deliberations by voting on this proposal. Now the committee asks the High Senate to adopt the draft without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u79	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Corporate Income Tax Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 664, and the report of the Commission In print No 664 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Jack Włosowicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u80	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! This law was also discussed at our committee meeting on 30 November. Its aim is to make public tax data arising from tax returns submitted by corporate tax payers. Who's gonna be involved? This will apply to companies that exceeded EUR 50 million in the previous year and to all taxpayers who operate in the form of a tax group. What data will be made public? This will be 5 different data: data on revenue achieved, the cost of income incurred, the income achieved or the loss suffered, the tax base and the amount of tax due. The first publication is due to take place by 30 September 2018 and covers tax data from tax years started after 31 December 2011 and completed before 1 January 2018. The date of entry into force of the Act was set on 1 January 2018. At the meeting of the committee, a motion for adoption of the law was made without amendment and was put to the vote. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, I request the High Senate to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u81	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much, Senator rapporteur. [[Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Minister Paweł Gruza is with us. Thank you, Minister. Good. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Do any of you senators want... [[Senator Klein.]] Senator Klein. Minister, I'd like to invite you to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u82	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask, in which countries of the European Union have similar rules in place, in which countries income, taxes, etc. are made public. It's paid by these corporations. Some companies, of course, make this data publicly available, unless they are listed companies, but we are talking about everyone who has a turnover of this scale. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Paweł Gruza: Yes.)]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u83	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u84	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At the moment, I recall Sweden and Denmark as examples of countries that share this information. The qualifier of public companies, i.e. companies on the stock market, is not a good qualifier for us, because there are few of these companies in our company. More mature countries have a much higher percentage of companies listed on domestic stock exchanges. Therefore, this qualifier does not fit us at all. Nevertheless, I would like to say that many of the data that we propose to make public this law is currently in public space because of access to the financial statements of companies. I would like to say that analysts are able to accurately calculate the values that we are making public from public data today. That's the first thing. The second thing is that we fit into a certain trend of transparency. At European Union level, a draft directive is being discussed to make the so-called "public" public. Country-by-Country Reporting data and how profits and taxes of multinational companies are distributed. There is also a qualifier of the size, perhaps 750 million euros of turnover. And there is also the logic of this to give societies, to give voters, to give other taxpayers the knowledge of how tax accounts are spread not only in Poland but throughout Europe of a given international corporation. This law concerns companies which, according to our assessment, are large enterprises and have a major impact on budgetary revenue. As a general rule, these data do not cause any such disclosure of the specific secrets of this trader, because, I remind you, these data are in principle available in the KRS as financial statements, and after their processing you can receive the data that we publish here.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u85	Thank you very much. I take it the senator wants to ask you another question? [[Yes.]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u86	Of course, it seems to me that this is a good principle and that public disclosure will indeed serve to ensure greater transparency and transparency of economic turnover. But I would also like to ask the Minister how many companies or companies you believe will be covered by this obligation. Is it a large number on the Polish scale?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u87	This is... As I recall, 2,000 companies will be made public. Of course, each year it will be a little bit different 2,000, because each year the group above the threshold will be different. And this is the main qualifier. This is probably 60% of the total corporate income tax, which is an important part of the income.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u88	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. As announced earlier, item 7 of the agenda, i.e. the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2018, will be considered tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare. The text of the Act is contained in print No 660 and the report of the Committee in print No 660 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Waldemar Kraska, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Senate! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Senate Health Commission, a law amending the Law on public-funded healthcare provision. The bill is very short, it actually fits on one piece of paper, but, I think, it contains a very large emotional charge, but mostly financial cargo, because this law shows a road map of access to financing health services from the state budget with an additional PLN 500 billion, of course in a 10-year perspective. Polish health care does not remember such funding. I'll remind you, it's extra money. In addition to the health contribution we pay, which will go into the health care system. During the committee's work there were questions about why this amount of PLN 500 billion, how this will be broken down over the years. In the bill attached to the bill, we see concrete amounts of impact assessment. May I quote that in the first year of the Act's validity the additional money that will go from the budget to the health system is PLN 3 billion 700 million, next year, the second year will be PLN 13 billion, in the third year PLN 23 billion. In turn, until the tenth year, when a record amount of PLN 105 billion will reach the system. In a 10-year perspective this will give a total of PLN 547 billion 629 million. During the committee's work, there were also questions about why it is so extended over time, whether it could not be done faster and give more money. The Minister of Health said that you could, of course, but... I think our economy couldn't handle it, which is why it's stretched out in time. Politically, why hasn't it been done for eight years? It's the only thing that's criticized right now. This project is very good, revolutionary. I think that in the history of Polish health care there has never been such a project, there has not been such a financial injection for Polish health care. During the committee's work, 2 proposals were tabled, a proposal for a law without amendments, which was accepted by the committee, and a proposal for an amendment tabled by a minority of committees, which may be presented immediately. Mrs. Marshal, the committee recommends that this law be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u90	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Tomasz Grodzki, who is the rapporteur of the minority of the Health Commission, is not in the room in a moment, which is why I am announcing a five-minute break until Senator Grodzki arrives. Okay, five minutes, then, till 1:15 p.m. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 10 to 13 minutes 13]] Ladies and gentlemen, since you are already Senator Grodzki, you are ministers, I resume the session. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Health, Senator Thomas Grodzki, to present a proposal of the minority of the committee. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u91	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The minority proposal, which we will try to justify a little more widely in the discussion, is the following. Well, we generally appreciate the increase in health care costs, but we are not satisfied with the pace of this increase, because the world and medicine are not waiting. That's why our proposal generally comes down to 6%. GDP will reach health within 4 years rather than 8 years. That is more or less the minority's conclusion. I will also justify it in the discussion, if your marshal will allow it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u92	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Please, Senator Władysław Komarnicki. Which of the Senators of the rapporteurs? [[To the first rapporteur.]] [[Most of them.]] Most of them. Good. I invite the president to the stand. There you go. [[May I?]] Yes. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u93	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, you've agreed on funding, and I'm asking you more as a patient and an entrepreneur, and I'm sorry for my hoarse voice for a few years, and I like that. So the financing strategy, I believe, is set. But I personally lack the answer here to the question of what is the Ministry of Health's strategy on the functioning of health care at all. Because you write that every year the Minister will decide what the health funds will be allocated for as a result of this growth. I don't think we can just ask each year what these measures will go for, but we need to put forward a strategy. Because health care also requires some stability and if there is transparency of strategy, then the operation of the health department... Everyone's gonna get used to it. We can't set priorities every year, because then we'll all be surprised.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u94	Thank you very much. Please, Senator... Mr. Senator Rulewski. Excuse me. [[Oh, no...]] I'm sorry. Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u95	It is worth not to forget, because in all time will come, Mrs. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, there is a certain limit on the growth of health expenditure in relation to GDP. My question is, who's going to make up for this growth? Or taxpayers? Or the budget? Are there gonna be any other extraordinary state resources? If so, what will they be? And if I say so, it does not create competition for another growth indicator, e.g. concerning the weapons of the Polish army? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u96	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? To the Senator of the majority, Senator? Yes? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u97	Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I have such a brief question. Did the committee attend the meeting of the medical community and, if so, did they refer to this law, express any opinions, or were there no opinions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u98	Thank you very much. And please, Mr. Senator, answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Maybe I'll start at the end. At the committee meeting there was a representative of the doctor's union, but he expressed his private opinion, it was not a resolution of the doctor's union, so I guess I'm not going to quote it. As far as Senator Rulewski's questions are concerned, this money will come from the budget. It will be a targeted grant to the National Health Fund. As far as the health strategy is concerned, I think the Minister will talk more about it, but in my opinion, the two key laws that we have recently adopted, namely the hospital network law and basic health care... these two parts of our health service require firm funding. And I think that this money will be focused mainly on these 2 foundations of our health care. And that the Minister will have a tool to direct another stream every year, to channel more resources for those needs for which it will be necessary in a given year... Well, that's the way it is in health care, not everything can be planned for a long time, and this law covers financing over almost 10 years. Therefore, I think such a gateway to correcting these expenses should be made available to the Minister. [[Mrs. Marshal, I beg your pardon, sir, are you the Minister, may I repeat this question to the Minister?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u100	Of course, Mr. Senator. Always. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. Are there any questions for the Senator of the majority? No. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] Are there any more questions for the senator of the minority rapporteur? No. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Today we have Minister Konstanty Radziwiłł, Minister of Health and Minister Katarzyna Głowala, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. Would the Minister like to speak? Please, Minister, please come to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u101	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! This is a really important day, and I hope that the procedure for this bill will end at least as much as the one in the Sejm. I would immediately start by trying to persuade your senators to adopt this law unanimously. I think there's a good chance of that, because in the Sejm we have achieved almost unanimity in this regard. Perhaps I would first give a brief answer to a few questions that were addressed to the President, but I think a few words are also mine for you. First of all, as regards the speech by Senator Grodzki... and basically the amendment that he is proposing and which can be brought to two words: "faster" and "more," I must say... I don't want to fall into any malice here, but the moment the Senator from the Civic Platform reports it, I can really only repeat it: it had to be done earlier. And actually, I don't want to develop this subject. I mean, there really was time for that, wasn't there? I understand that the senator at the time was not among the decision-makers, but the formation you represent certainly was. And I think it is important to see, however, that this proposal is inappropriate in this context. I would also like faster and more, this is the dream of all those who function in the health care system, but the answer to this can be only one: we not only want to realize our dreams, because this is the kind of dream realization, but we also want to do it is responsible, not ruining the budget and not endangering other tasks of the country, which are important too. It's as short as it gets on this case. As for the question of Senator Komarnicki, I must say this: it is a matter of strategy and priorities or of deciding every year what money is going to go for. I think that Mr Kraska rightly pointed out that in health care it is very difficult to talk about the target model. You could say that in the world Even where, we think, the health system works properly or even very well In most cases, reformation is discussed. It is simply that medicine is developing, demography is changing, and therefore also needs are changing, the need for such or other decisions is changing. So, of course, I do not assume that these successive annual regulations of the Minister of Health about what, I stress, are to be allocated first of all these additional resources. First of all, that's not all. They'll be so different from each other. I do not rule out that, from year to year, health needs based on maps of health needs need not change, but for example. The question of how painful and vulnerable the queues are for patients can change from one year to the next and it will therefore be necessary to decide to direct measures especially to this area where the needs are simply the greatest. And that's what this case is supposed to be about. But, of course, in parallel with making these decisions every year. There's no doubt about it. There is a need for some strategic consideration here. Besides, it can be said, as it were, that this is already happening. A team has been operating for several weeks, which has appointed the Minister of Health, among others. just to discuss how these measures should be developed Not tomorrow, not the day after tomorrow, just in the long term. Interestingly, in this debate, the particularly active participation of They're taking patient organisations. It is they who are the beneficiaries who, as you rightly pointed out, They will benefit from the benefits of this law. And it is very good that these organisations have been particularly actively involved in the discussion on the strategy. Because I agree that this strategy is needed. But please also note that one such very strong strategic direction, which is already enshrined in the law, in the guidelines for this regulation, is that we want, on the basis of increasing measures, to implement the constitutional commitment of the state to special care for certain groups of citizens. Namely, children, pregnant women, disabled people and the elderly. It can be said that, to some extent, as far as the functioning of health care is concerned, this record has been somewhat empty. In fact, except for a few exceptions. Among them I can quote the 75+ program, free medicines for seniors implemented for more than a year In fact, it was not very clear that the State was fulfilling either a constitutional commitment and we would like it to become one of the strategic axes of this development. With regard to the question of Senator Rulewski, who makes up for it, where the money comes from, the answer is clear: we do not want to burden citizens with additional tributes in order to improve the financing of health services. That's a basic assumption. So there's no increase in the contribution or in this part... in particular in the part that's actually paid out of the citizen's pocket, because that would mean nothing less than just burdening citizens with extra tax. We also do not want any other combinations in this regard. It's just a grant from the state budget. It is a question of rebuilding the priorities of the state that the state budget will be increasingly devoted to health. This is in line with, above all, the guidelines of many international organisations which analyse the situation in health care in the various Member States' systems. OECD, European Union, WHO, etc. There's talk everywhere that about 6% GDP is more or less the level which can be said to reflect the appropriate proportions in terms of prioritising the different tasks of the State. And that's what we're trying to figure out, but Once again, I stress very strongly. Without additional burden on the citizens. And finally, Senator Majer's question about medical environments and their commitment to this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, here the President said that during the committee meeting there was a representative of the National Medical Association. For the record, there was also a person representing the General Medical Chamber who did not speak. But, ladies and gentlemen, I think I have a special title to assure you that 6% The GDP of public health funds is precisely this call for, you can say, an eternal medical environment. It really is. Since time immemorial medical environments have made this request, sometimes gaining some kind of favor in general opposition parties, but it has never been implemented in practice, even though it seemed to be close to it. Referring to Senator Grodzki's statement, I would like to remind you that there were such statements a few years ago, among others. Deputy Minister Szulc, Deputy Minister of Health of the Civic Platform and PSL government, who announced that 6% would be in 2020 GDP. Only then It was 2012 and 2013 and no steps were taken this way, was it not? It was rather such diwags, empty promises, there was definitely nothing that brought us closer to it. I would like to point out that since the amount of money we spend on health in the state budget in general, this varies from 3.5% up to 4.5% , without any clear upward trend, which is contrary to most state statistics. As a general rule, GDP growth is also linked to an increase in the share of GDP allocated from public funds to health, and this was not the case in Poland. And that is, you can say, an entrance to a path that characterizes modern health systems and meets the real needs of mostly patients, but also medical environments. Ladies and gentlemen, if we were to convert the effects of this law into normal money, because it is not a percentage of GDP that we feed on, and it is not a percentage of GDP that we pay for procedures or health care, but with money, it is really... I really don't want to fall into any pompousness, but, ladies and gentlemen, let me say this: show me the second law in the history of Polish parliamentarianism which would generate, as a result of its actions, within 10 years, as it always counts, PLN 547 billion! I don't think there's another law like that. There's been one very heavy bill lately. It was a law that introduced 500+. But she's at PLN 241 billion in 10 years, while she's at PLN 547 billion! Ladies and gentlemen, this is the reverse amount, this is the five and 11 zeros! It's really hard to imagine that kind of money. Of course, it will be implemented in such a way that it will not fall into the health fund overnight, but it is spread over the years. At the same time, which I stress very strongly, it is not set aside by 10 years or by 8 years, but it is simply to step in gradually, as if up the stairs, to reach the level that really will place us in the family of countries that allocate an appropriate percentage of their resources to health. Thanks to this short, but fruitful, financial value, the bill will be possible, in accordance with the provisions that this money, these additional funds will first be directed towards specific purposes For many years Many politicians, including those responsible for health, have said that there are queues everywhere in the world. That is not true, ladies and gentlemen, it is not the case everywhere in the world. And it doesn't have to be that there are queues in health care. They are simply for a very simple reason: because there is a big gap between demand and financial opportunities. And this is a very simple mechanism. To a large extent, ladies and gentlemen, this is also about the reality of today. And it also shows that these plans for the future are not empty speech. That's because we're unloading these lines today. Thanks to the well-being of the state budget it was possible to obtain additional resources. More than PLN 764 million were sent a few weeks ago to caterers to unload queues in these cases, one can say, the most crying for vengeance to heaven, in these queues, in which indeed many people are waiting, and for a very long time. This is about cataract surgery, artificial hip and knee joint surgery, some areas of imaging diagnostics, magnetic resonance imaging and CT scan, and finally it's about treating patients with hepatitis C. And these are areas where queues are already very clearly melting. So this also shows that we're not putting this off for the future, but we want to do it now. The second area, which will be covered by these additional measures, is what I have already mentioned, i.e. changing health needs. Because they, ladies and gentlemen, are constantly changing. People in Poland live longer, but with this life longer What is, you can say, our joint success Unfortunately, there is a need to spend additional resources just to protect health, because older people, sometimes very active, very happy, suffer from various diseases that younger people simply do not develop. Therefore, the longer we live, the greater the need for Polish health care not only did it save lives, but it would also respond to the growing need to improve the quality of life of those who live longer. And that's what's gonna happen. Finally, it will be possible to really keep up with progress in medical science, in both drug and non-drug technologies. We still know it well, even from daily newspapers. Under terrible pressure, under pressure from sick people who simply do not have access to modern drug or other technologies because these technologies are generally very expensive. Right? Why don't they have access to it? It's not like the Minister of Health doesn't want to refund it. We just don't have the resources. It's a very simple mechanism. Thus, through increasing measures, it will be possible to achieve a real solution to what patients need. And finally, in addition to the implementation, as I have already mentioned, these constitutional priorities for some citizens... It should be noted that health care is a workplace of nearly 600 000 people who often earn very little money, often unworthy of money. We've made a bill. She's already been operating since July. With minimum salaries in the various medical professions. And that's the minimum program. Nobody in health care should make money below that. Ladies and gentlemen, it is far from possible to implement the mechanism... Because with constant concern we see that for many medical professionals it is more attractive to go abroad and work there than in Poland. We want to change this and this will be possible thanks to these additional measures. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is worth noting during the discussion in the framework of the adoption of this law that this is all a set, a set of different actions. In these few statements of the State that spoke, there was a thread, as it is with the complexity of this change. Some people say we're gonna put extra money in it, and this guy's got a hole in it, and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the process of carrying out very many major reforms. I draw attention to the fact that for over a month there has been a system called a network of hospitals. I don't hesitate today, although it's too early for some summary, to say that it was certainly a good move. I would like to thank all those who contributed to the fact that we were able to adopt this law. This law, which was a great and turbulent discussion, certainly brings a great deal of good to hospitals themselves, but above all to patients. The complexity of care, which patients already experience today, is simply visible. And that's a good change. We are a few days after the signing of the Basic Healthcare Act. This is the second pillar of the modern health system. In this law in a slightly different way than within the network, which, you can say, entered into force on one day, we will gradually implement this... All of this is going to coordinate care, to comprehensively address a patient who today suffers mainly from getting lost in a complex, hostile system. Someone's doing some sort of procedure, for example. a diagnostic that shows that a patient needs very complicated treatment, but is to manage on its own. This is a situation that will disappear with a system based on complexity, coordination. Ladies and gentlemen, I really have no doubt that this regulation, despite this political noise, which is extremely intense, is a lot of noise... Ladies and gentlemen, this law is indeed historic. To conclude, I urge and ask that, as was the case in the Seym, the opposition senators decide to support this bill. She's good for patients, good for those who work in health care, and someday she'll be good for all of us. Because it's very rare, it almost never happens to be a patient. The patient in today's health system is not good to be. I would like this to change and encourage you, I invite all of you, including the opposition senators, to raise your hand in the adoption of this law so that we can say: together we have done something important, something good. It's really going to be so essential, in the literal sense of the term, a good change. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u102	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Jan Rulewski wants to ask you a question. You're welcome. Minister, you're welcome to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, Senator, I already feel the additional medical needs of the PiS government today. And that's why I'm asking for mercy. And speaking of questions... [[Bad joke.]] Minister, you have rightly said that today is a great day, full of optimism, you urge the opposition. My question is this: did you thank the authors of this expenditure scenario up to 6%, i.e. doctors to trainees, who, unlike the Platform, did not speak faster, more, but said no changes, gentlemen, at least at the beginning? Second question, all the time about the budget. Where's the money for this 6%? ? What are we going to reduce in the budget? The budget is 100%. If we increase from 4% to 6% somewhere, then somewhere else we have to reduce by 2%. I'm asking for an answer. Or maybe the Minister of Finance will answer what will reduce the resources for education, defence, roads, investments, electric motors of Mr Morawiecki or some other solutions. [[Thieves eliminate.]] Third question, Minister, pal. I've been fighting for years, especially with regard to drugs, to help those you've only partially put here. I mean, chronically ill, especially children. How does that fit into your program? I haven't noticed in this speech that the greatest ailment in the whole world... mothers who have to... Mothers, fathers, families are dedicated to taking care of such children, and I have not noticed that there are real reliefs for them except for those... In other words, they used to be in the law on chronic diseases, now they're gone. Will they be restored? And I'm not just talking about vocabulary, I'm talking about real help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u104	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Tomasz Grodzki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u105	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have a question for you, in fact, Minister Glowing, because we had a very interesting discussion at the Health Committee meeting on numbers and conclusions were interesting for both parties. I have a specific question that the common senator's mind can grasp. Now we have an estimated 88 billion in the system. If the Minister could tell us how much we would have at our disposal in 2025, I would ask for it. This year there are 88 billion zlotys. How long will it be in 2025 when this bill is completed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u106	Thank you very much. Minister, I'd like to invite you to the stand and ask you to answer my questions. Then we'll ask Minister Katarzyna Głowala. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u107	As for the questions of Senator Rulewski, I must say that I have never hidden them, and I have said many times in my public statements that I have no doubt that the real authors of the bill, apart from the fact that it was prepared by the government, are all those who have been calling for health expenditure for many years. I was talking about the fact that it was a dream of medical environments, as well as patients, for many years, and I believe that these are indeed co-authors of this solution. I have no doubt about that. The only difference is that for many years they have spoken these words, but nobody listened to them, and we just do it. That's the difference. We, widely understood us. I hope that everyone here and those who are not here will contribute to this, and I hope that this will be the case. And I urge all of us to feel that we are the authors of this solution by raising our hand behind this bill. Where's the money coming from? Again, from the state budget. That's not exactly how it works with these percentages, Senator. Of course, the budget is always 100% But here we're talking about the percentage of GDP, so it's not really that 100%. We spend GDP in the budget. These are the other percentages. But I wouldn't want to go into any kind of financial imbalance. By the way, I'm just paying attention to one more thing that's very important. This is, of course, rebuilding the priorities of the state and in this sense You just need time for that. Because it can't be done with responsibility every day to stop something. give, and here transfer very big money. That is why we need the years for which we will set up this process. But there's still a very important thing. It may turn out that we are going to achieve these percentages much faster. At the moment, the state of the economy is really so good, and the state of tax collection, thanks to new regulations and solutions, is so high that it is quite possible that the same situation as this year, in 2017, in which we spend much more on health at the end of the year, will happen again, for example. for the year and in the years to come. It's highly likely. And it may turn out that those who call us to be quicker and more, in fact, will not go away, so to speak, disappointed, because it will turn out that the situation will be beneficial. Please pay attention to the current year's plans were significantly lower, and thanks to these new opportunities, as well as the fact that a large proportion of the surplus resources that have appeared in the budget are being spent on health, we achieve the level of public health expenditure calculated against GDP certainly above 4.7% Which is also a record. Even though that wasn't the plan. And I think it's highly likely that next year this situation will repeat itself and maybe in the years to come, too. As for the last remark or appeal to me, not for the first time led by your senator... Senator, this is one of the things that we will be able to really have a serious conversation with you with these extra funds. Because if we're talking about... I mean, if we're funding from public funds today, from the state budget. I would like to point out: not from the National Health Fund, but from the state budget. The 75+ programme, i.e. medications for chronically ill elderly people, I think that a similar solution is possible also for other categories of patients, especially patients within the framework of constitutional priorities. I think this is one of those directions that can be considered. It's not like that, Senator, that I've been reluctant to do it so far, but you just have to be responsible. We need to have the resources to make our dreams come true, and I think this is one of those things that we might be able to do with it. And as far as Senator Grodzki's question is concerned, I just want to quote the figures that result from the impact assessment. Because it's... Ladies and gentlemen, these are the numbers that have been calculated, they are firmly embedded in reality, and I give you the amounts that are expected, both in terms of budget, economy, because there are very many indicators that influence this... For today I can say that in the first year of the law, it will generate almost 4 billion additional zlotys, according to the plan for today, I repeat once again, because it is possible that in fact these funds will be more if the economic situation allows for this. In 2019 it is already 13 billion PLN more than in 2017, that is still in relation to 2017. That is 4 billion, 13 billion, 24 billion, 35 billion, 47 billion, 61 billion, 76 billion, 85 billion, 95 billion, 105 billion in 2025. This is the difference between this year and the next years. That's how they're gonna grow. Of course, this is not decreed in the law, but this is an impact assessment of this law. If the situation is as expected And the experts are doing it, so there's no reason to think it's gonna be different. And that's how we're going to get a total growth of 547 billion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u108	Thank you very much. There's a question for you, Minister Glowing... [[No, I'm...]] [[I answered.]] Yes? Good. Thank you very much, Minister. Now you're asking Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u109	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The first question concerns your speech today. Could you elaborate your thoughts on the impropriety of certain questions? How do you understand that? Do you think that a person asking for an increase in expenditure of up to 6% and indicating that it should be done faster is asking an inappropriate question? I need this for my speech. Could you elaborate on that? That's one thing. Secondly, Minister, could you say... It's about waiting to be admitted to the ward. I have here data from December 2015 and December 2016. These include neurosurgery, orthopedics and rehabilitation. According to the Minister's knowledge, has the waiting time for these troops to be accepted decreased in December 2016, remained the same or increased? How's that look in your assessment? If you don't mind, I'm gonna ask you to answer these two questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u110	Thank you very much. Senator Władysław Komarnicki, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, we remember that there used to be phenomenal nursing schools in our country. We were very proud of those schools. Now it's getting really bad, hospitals are starting to run out of nurses. Minister, in this strategy that you have so enthusiastically put forward today, is this problem well stressed? Of course, I think primarily of finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u112	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Rulewski, and we'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u113	Minister, I am hopeful of your actions and therefore I am asking you a reservation and a question at the same time. Like you said about the billions, I got dizzy even though I'm an engineer. Do you remember today? It was actually a month ago. When did the government adopt the Social Insurance Act, under which some of the recipients, some of the insured, would pay a higher premium, which means that the basis for the health contribution will be lower? In other words, to your budget. The budget you are in charge of, although it is not a precise definition, will have fewer resources, less by 350 million. Do something so you don't get your money taken away from you at first, especially since you promise to increase that money.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u114	Minister, you're welcome. I'm asking you to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u115	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The legislative process is a political process, and I think that it cannot be escaped. I think I've explained quite thoroughly why I think that's my personal reception. The call for a faster increase in health expenditure from the Civic Platform's political environment does not fit the reality. You were in charge two and a half years ago. Such a law could then be adopted. Nothing special has changed. Right? I would urge us not to box in this case right now. I would also ask you to support this law, because in this situation, at least on this point, a large part of the differences between us will, so to speak, be bridged. As far as queues are concerned, Senator, they are still a shameful phenomenon in health care. I repeat what I have already said: the main reason for these queues is simply the insufficient amount of resources we have at our disposal. Regardless of organisational changes in the health system, money is the only way to deal with this phenomenon. Well, maybe not only, but mostly with additional resources. I've told you this before. Of course, I don't have the statistics yet that could be shown that we're in the process of unloading the worst queues right now. I think by the end of this year, we're really gonna get the result... Well, definitely, but we're definitely gonna reduce the queues in those areas I mentioned earlier. And I think it just shows that this direction for additional resources is the right direction. But in order for it not only to be about money, I also draw attention to the fact that today it is precisely this solution, which is a network of hospitals, which among others. guarantees a patient in need of additional treatment at a hospital clinic, a specialist clinic at the hospital or a rehabilitation clinic after he was discharged from the hospital... The network guarantees that the hospital in which the patient is hospitalized will provide the patient, if the patient needs it, with specialist care in the clinic and rehabilitation care. We have signals that this solution is actually working today. Patients who have been hospitalized e.g. in the first days of October and were discharged after a few days home, already today they are covered by the benefit of the network law. For them, the concept of queue to a large extent simply ceased to exist, because the patient discharged from the ward at the time he was going home is scheduled for a specific visit within a few weeks after he was discharged from the hospital, just when needed. This is the reality of today. Of course, this does not solve the problem of all queues, of which there is no doubt. I hope that we will be able to do so to a large extent thanks to these additional resources already this year... that it will also be better in the coming years. Mr. Senator Komarnicki He rightly points out the issue of training in medical professions. You mentioned nurses, but this applies to a lot of other medical professions. Well, the biggest shortage we have is for doctors and nurses. In both cases, we have been funding additional places at medical universities for 2 years. I'll remind you of the numbers, because that's important too. Within 2 years from 2015 to this academic year, which began The difference when it comes to admissions to medical school is 1,500 places. That's the direction. Next year we will also finance additional receptions both at universities so-called. Old, as well as new universities, where, as I say, medicine is being developed. There will be additional places in the medical departments, but also in the nursing departments. So that's exactly where we're going. Senator Rulewski asked about a bill that changes the retirement situation of the best earners. Indeed, the result is... may be, as expected, a slight reduction in the National Health Fund's contribution. It's just that. The regulation that we are working on today results in the introduction of a vending machine once these funds are gone and their amount falls below the level provided for by the law, this will be complemented by the state budget. So there is no concern that any shortage on the part of the National Health Fund that would cause it to fall below this minimum threshold will not be covered. No, at this point it is necessary to add to the level which is the minimum resulting from the law, directly from budgetary resources.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u116	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to announce a recess in a moment, but Senator Jacek Włosowicz and Senator Jerzy Czerwiński want to ask questions to the Minister. Will any of you have a question? [[Leszek Czarnobaj.]] Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. So I think, ladies and gentlemen, that at this moment, because... Unless it's short questions... Well, maybe we should try again. Good. Senator Włosowicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, briefly and specifically about finance. You said that, for example. for the coming year, i.e. for 2018, there will be 4 billion PLN, i.e. compared to the 2017 base it will be about 5% More. We in our offices... At least I can see that there's already some satisfaction, and I get the signals that more money has been spent on diagnostics, and when it comes to permanent cataract problems, problems with hips, knees, it's getting smaller here. Do we have assurance... Are you sure if you throw in that money? Probably hard-hit from the chief of government. We're gonna be able to rewrite them in quotes? Because sometimes I talk to doctors, I talk to chiefs, and they tell me that I do, for example. in case of cataracts... They say, so what if there's funding, if they don't have people, if there's no one to carry out these operations. That's one question. And second question. You gave the data, you gave 10 data... and, in fact, it covers the year 2027... [[Until 2027, yes, yes.]] By 2027... and thank you, that's all right, I don't have a question here. That 105 billion was 2027.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u118	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u119	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm experiencing some kind of déjà vu. I remember over a year and a half ago, Minister Rafalska stood here, explaining that we wanted to give money to people, families with children. She explained it, not because she's taking money, but because she's giving money. Now you're explaining the opposition again from the fact that you want to increase your resources so much... i.e. Of course, you're not the only one... that we want to increase our spending on health care. It may, however, remind colleagues of the Platform, what percentage expenditures were in previous years and what amounts these percentages refer to, because it is really not about percentages, but about specific money, specific amounts. Or maybe you'd just be more cooperative in this kind of non-controversial discussion. [[Ask me a question, Senator.]] Right here at the end there was a question mark: maybe it would be like this...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u120	Good. Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to close this Question Time because I need to announce a break.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u121	Minister, if I may, I will raise a brief question about the assumptions. Are the assumptions regarding the percentage that will be used to protect health... At what level is GDP growth planned every year in this account? 4% ? If the Minister knows, I'm asking for an answer, and if he doesn't, maybe the Minister will be... [[And why do they have such a short memory?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u122	Thank you very much. There will be no more questions for the Minister. Minister, please respond. I'm about to announce a recess, and after the recess, we're gonna start the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u123	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Włosowicz asked a very important question: can these additional resources be altered? If you have reduced your question only until 2018 and 4 billion, then without extra breath and without stopping I can say: you can and much more, because 4 billion PLN is the amount for which, practically speaking, everyone is waiting for. I hope, however, that, regardless of the fact that it is written at this level for next year, it will actually end in a much bigger increase. Please note that even from the economic development itself, the improvement of the labour market situation, from the fact that there are more and more people employed, that there are ever higher wages for the economy, it appears that the contribution is likely to increase by more than PLN 4 billion. You can very likely assume that this is going to be more than what comes only out of the obligation... Because I repeat once again that we in this bill are talking about certain minimum thresholds below which we cannot fall, but there may be more. [[It's a minimum program.]] Yes. And I think it's very likely that this is going to increase by more than 4 billion next year. But your question, of course, is justified. Do we have that money... Can we not just rewrite them, because it's gonna work, but can we do them in a sensible, rational way so that we don't waste this money? And among others. This is subject to the distribution of this growth over the years, because it is also a matter of responsibility. We both need to prepare strategically. As you have suggested here. As well as making annual use of this money to deliver on these priorities, which are indeed the most important. It seems to me that with such a reasonable assumption, including on the one hand a proper distribution of expenditure, and on the other hand an annual preparation to make it all as rational, meaningfully spent as possible... I think so. But, of course, other activities that reorganize health care are also subject to this. It can be said that even recently, before the network law, the principle of paying for medical procedures in Poland dominated the principle of paying for the medical procedure, a procedure often separated from the actual care and sometimes needs. Sometimes you had to double the action. Some procedures were valued in a way that raised doubts as to the actual costs. These procedures were often, I would say, the subject of the desire of companies that were profit-oriented. We're changing it all. I don't want to talk about all the other things that make it seem like there's an increasing chance of spending money more rationally than before. It seems that there is a good chance not only to spend them, as you ask, but also to spend them with the greatest benefit for Polish patients, as well as respecting the dignity of those who work in the health care system. Mr. Senator Czerwiński asked about the expenditures, about how they looked historically. I have already said that, above all, there has been no upward trend in comparison with countries where, with GDP growth, there is also a growing percentage of healthcare expenditure. That's the trend we haven't seen at all. They grew once, they fell once. Usually they were about 4%, but they were also lower and higher. This is the first thing that was definitely important. Two. Health expenditure has been increasing for many years, but this has been done in principle without connection with any government decision. They grew because of the situation on the labour market. When unemployment decreases, the contribution is paid by more people. The wages are rising, so the contribution is increasing. And this is basically the only mechanism that worked. In addition, we have to say that there has been a tendency, especially in recent years, to take off some areas of health care expenditure... This was to be the case, for example, with the liquidation of the doctor's postgraduate internship. That's budget money. Right? We've restored post-graduate internship for doctors and dentists. It is primarily justified by the need to complete theoretical training with practical training in the workplace of young doctors, but involves additional expenditure from the state budget. A very recent decision has been taken We reversed it so that the funding of vaccines would be the burden of the National Health Fund, i.e. it was taken from the state budget. We brought it back. In addition, it must be said that... I have been trying for two years at all to make it so that if there are new tasks in health care, that these new tasks should be financed not additionally from the National Health Fund, where, of course, something needs to be deducted from, but through additional resources from the state budget. That's the way it is. with 75+ program, with free medicines for seniors. The entire drug refund comes from the National Health Fund, and this money comes from the state budget. The same is true of questions concerning the training of new healthcare professionals. These are the additional resources that flow from the budget. I'm showing a tendency here. We are increasingly charging the budget regardless of the fact that the contribution to the National Health Fund is also increasing. This is a fundamental change. You could say that earlier there was automatic growth, and now it's voluntary, i.e. that there are decisions that are made. Senator Czarnobaj also asked how GDP would evolve. As expected. The experts who describe the effects of the regulation take into account the different types of forecast ♪ I can't believe I'm GDP in the years covered by the impact assessment varies between 3 and 4% per year.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u124	Thank you very much. There are no further questions for the Minister. After the break, we'll start the discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that at 15.00 the National Assembly will be held to listen to the message of the President of the Republic of Poland. Let me remind you that the list of senators will be drawn up in the lower smoking room at the meeting room of the Sejm. For organizational reasons, please take your seats in the Parliament hall until 2.50 p.m. The session will resume at 4 p.m. after the vote on the first point, i.e. the biofuel legislation. Dismissed until 4:00 p.m. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 10 to 16 minutes 02]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u125	I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. [[Some senators of the Civic Platform Club have white roses]] I would like to inform you that, after 6 p.m., we will proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the law amending the Waste Act and some other laws. After considering this item, we will return to dealing with the items according to the agenda. We are returning to the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and certain other laws. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation have presented one-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of the law without amendments • Senate prints No 661 A and No 661 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 69 senators voted, 46 were in favour, 22 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 2]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Grodzki. You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u126	Mr. Marshal! [[Calm down, please!]] High Izbo! Minister! When the Russians and the Americans raced for the conquest of space, the following story took place. At that time, President Kennedy allowed Cape Canaveral to be photographed using such words: it would be the victory of the apparent truth over the camouflage lie. Now let's get to the point. The Minister was polite to note that I did not act as an executive during the reign of the PO, but also that it did nothing, it was a bad PO... etc., etc. Let me quote some facts so that you have a clear picture of the situation. Namely, in 2005 ministerial and NFZ expenditures were about PLN 33 billion, in 2016 it was about PLN 73 billion. This is, however you count, an increase of 216%. It is clear what the Minister said, that this is what the indicators of progressive GDP growth are all about, that the economic indicators that Minister Głowala has been very skillfully explaining to us. That's all right. But we can't say there was nothing. It's done because it's been growing, without a bill, but it's growing. Minister said this year's finale, 4.71% GDP, it's record. But unfortunately, the facts say otherwise, because in 2009 the percentage of GDP allocated to health was 5.09. And this is where the source isn't duped. These are the reports on the implementation of the budget law adopted by the Council of Ministers. Then the years of crisis came, and yet the effort continued to rise. And it must be made clear to ourselves, because if, inspired by the speech of the President, we believe that we must build Poland, then we must be as far away from lying as possible and as close as possible to the truth. And the truth is, these expenditures have increased. I don't want to remind you that residents were expecting 6,8%. GDP over 3 years, because even in the ministerial explanatory memorandum to this law is clearly stated, on page 6, that estimates indicate that, taking into account today's so-called basket of guaranteed benefits and current demographics, at least 30 billion PLN per year is missing. Meanwhile, in 2018 we will add 3.7 billion to this, next year 10 billion, which together will amount to 13 billion, and so about 10 billion... So this effort will not be sufficient, in line with the Ministry's reasoning. Let's stick to the facts. In preparation for this debate, I asked the question of how much money the health system will have at its disposal in 2025. I got an estimate of the answer to the consent. In view of GDP growth, inflation rates, etc., this will be about PLN 200 billion. It is now about 88 billion. And let me remind you that when it comes to the 2018 budget, it is the budget of the Ministry of Health itself. You have to realize that this is just a fragment. It is, symbolically, but it is, by 100 million lower than the budget of the Ministry in 2017, it is also included in the Budget Act. So if we consider that right now it's about 88 billion, and it's going to be about 200 billion, and we're going to figure out the percentage increase, we're going to see that it's about 219%. the current quota. And in the government of this evil PO, the final amount was 216% of the starting amount. Therefore, let us not be deluded, gentlemen, that something will change significantly. I say right away: it's a good thing that health expenditures are growing, but the key to success is speeding up. If we reach this 6% in eight or nine years, then Europe will probably be at 9, 10% by now. Some European countries are already at this level, with a European average of more than 7%. And if we get to that 6% in eight or nine years. I'm afraid we're not gonna be particularly affected by this success. Therefore, the Platform amends its approach to achieving these 6% within 4 years, i.e. that after 4 years it is possible to add about 30 billion PLN to the system each year, as indicated in the Ministry's explanatory memorandum, that 30 billion PLN per year must be added, but according to this law we plan to add a little less. I don't want to use upper-floor words because as a rational surgeon, I like to rely on facts. So let's conclude: the facts are that under the government of the PO, at the time, spending on health care With or without a law, controlled or uncontrolled, they have increased by 216%, and according to the provisions of this law they will increase by nearly 219%. If we think it's a success, congratulations. However, I consider this to be a move... well, of course in the right direction, but unfortunately one that will not change the reality of the health system in a significant way, because modern medicine I agree with the Minister here. It is costly: there are wage pressures, there are new technologies, new equipment, the epidemiology of diseases is changing... Therefore, I would ask you to come to an understanding of the amendments proposed by the Civic Platform, which indicate the sources of money, the path to money, so that we can reach 6%. GDP not in 2025, but in 2021. And then we certainly will not abuse the state budget and the percentage of GDP, and we will be able to say that we have actually accelerated the development of health protection. Since I respect your time, I do not wish to make further arguments. Let us remember that the doctors, many generations of doctors, also the Minister as Head of the NFZ However, young residents who will be treating us in several years' time gave an impulse in the type of spurs. They will, provided they don't leave in the meantime. And, as the medical chambers report, one in five graduates of our medical school apply to travel abroad. This phenomenon makes us a factory of well-educated doctors for Europe. Well, it can afford such a rich country, but certainly Poland cannot afford such a flow of blood. That is why we need to speed up the financing of health services. This is the time for health care and we need to do a qualitative jump here. Because what's in this bill is obviously moving... it's a good direction, but it's not acceleration. So I'm going to urge you to do this acceleration because it's the only way you're going to notice a change in quality in health care. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u127	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Health protection is one of the areas where we should not discuss appropriateness or impropriety and be based on things that have an average value from a factual point of view, as the senator has just said. What concerns our questions is not, Minister, standing across what you propose. After all, we all, as we sit here, regardless of the colors we are from, make sure that the queues are cut short so that we are in the lead when it comes to spending so that the patient and the health care professional are satisfied. After all, this is the dream of all Poles! And I'm not saying this under the influence of the President's speech. Regardless of the day and hour, this should guide our actions in terms of health protection. We're telling you to consider... Minister, we want to support you. The fact is that the budgetary situation is very good, the economic economy in Poland, in Europe, in the world is fantastic. Now I'm saying what I said at the committee meeting: if not now, when? Minister, this is not questioning everything that you, the Minister with the entire ministry, are doing when it comes to health protection. These are the things that need to be supported. But if we're talking and we're talking about a civilization leap, a quality leap, I think it's worth wondering if the pace of going to the 6%. It's enough. I think Senator Grodzki showed that he didn't. Of course, I know the Minister's position on this matter: there is talk of a minimum amount and it can be more. We would like to propose that this be a limit, so that 4 years is the time to reach a 6% investment. Previous years have shown that growth, which was calculated by Senator Grodzki, is not an increase sufficient to improve health care conditions. I asked the Minister in the debate... I have data here for 2016. In areas such as neurosurgery, orthopedics and rehabilitation, the queues have increased. So, if we're gonna cut those lines short... I hope, and I am convinced that what the Minister said is that 2017 is the year in which the queues are already shortening... We're all gonna be happy about this. Minister, on the issue of expenditure, on the size of these figures It's called 500, 600, 800 billion. However, I would be far from declaring success before this success is achieved. After all, we remember that during one term there were supposed to be investments for 2 trillion PLN, while investments in Poland are today a crutch. Therefore, let us not declare that it will be 500, 600, 800 billion PLN, but let us accept the course which the Minister spoke about and which he has fought for many years, the course of increasing expenditure on health care, while at the same time making even more effective use of money to achieve the goals that the Minister has talked about. Personally, I would like you to make this happen. I wish this to all those sitting in this room and all Poles. Shortening queues, better health care, faster diagnosis and investment in new technologies These are the things that all of us, Minister, and ourselves, who live in Poland, wish, because they are needed by each of us. Our proposal is moving towards shortening the investigation period to the target model. I propose, Minister, not to include in this discussion questions such as: 'Are you remember how it was 8 years ago, 'A remember how it was in 1947?'. It's a thing that doesn't carry anything. In a moment, we can ask ourselves whether there have been socio-economic conditions over the past eight years. If someone says that in two years we have raised our country from its ruins and now it is flourishing, it tells heresy. Once again, I would like to say that I personally support the direction taken by the Minister, and I am counting on the results that the Minister was talking about. I think in two years' time, when the Minister comes with a summary, we'll hear about shortening the queues, about an increased number of doctors and nurses, about patient satisfaction and the satisfaction of people working in health care. And this is going to be a measure of success, Minister, not of spending, because the size of the effort is just a means to achieve the goal. The aim is not to increase expenditure. The goal is what I just said. And a word at the end, Minister. I think it was very inappropriate... You don't have to try to please the political authorities by saying it's inappropriate for Senators of the Civic Platform to ask such questions. I think, Minister, that you, as Minister and Senator, have listened to the words of the President, who was just saying that such speeches should not be. Because we can differ and argue, but... And to please politically, you're talking about the inappropriateness of asking questions. So, we can't ask you questions? What, we're the people who have done what they've done in your assessment over the years, and you think we're banned from asking questions, worrying about suggesting other solutions? Minister, to put it mildly, you have made a good political gesture in the assessment of law and justice, and at the same time you have taken a huge step backwards when it comes to taking... your attitude towards the equality of all citizens. Don't divide us, unite us with action towards better outcomes and greater health care expenditures. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u129	Thank you very much. Senator Wojtyla.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! I agree with Senator Czarnobaj's last thesis that it is not about how high the resources are, but about how effectively they are spent. Here I would like to refer to the so-called known social economy. Marmot's paradox Prof. Marmot from England is perhaps the most outstanding scientist in social policy. It says that increased spending on an unprepared system can cause waste and even pathology. We in our policy after 1989 met with such phenomena in Poland Where we gave the money... It's said to give a fishing rod, not a fish. Where we gave the money I'm analyzing the health effects of alcohol and expensive cars, which didn't improve the lives of the people who got the money. It is very good that the Ministry, so to speak, offers a progressive increase in health expenditure while preparing for this system. The first step was the hospital network and the Basic Healthcare Act. I think that she should start to apply faster and in full. It's supposed to make a primary healthcare doctor a doctor and a specialist just a consultant. We're in Wielkopolska... Well, queues aren't new, 'cause in the '80s, these queues were. In Wielkopolska there was such a large program of the World Bank, such piloting that we were carrying out. Already then we came to the conclusion that the primary healthcare doctor should treat, send to a specialist, and the specialist will answer him whether he agrees with the diagnosis, tell him how to treat and possibly what additional tests to perform. Then this patient does not take a queue with a specialist, but is treated with a primary healthcare doctor. Yeah, but that requires a different family doctor's education. Now, what is a paradox, a family doctor, the most important part of health care, which should treat 90% cases, has the shortest specialization system of 4 years. In the case of other specializations, this is 5 and 6 years. Even when we implemented this program in Wielkopolska, a doctor could not work in primary health care, who did not have the first degree of specialization from internal medicine or from pediatrics. It must have been a medical doctor who knew how to treat himself in a hospital, and he didn't go to a hospital to treat cases that could have been treated in primary health care. And that's in the Basic Healthcare Act. It's just a shame, Minister, that it's so late. There's, like, years to investigate this. There are doctors like me who worked in primary health care and still work who can handle it. So that you could speed it up, but... like I said, you give money, but at the same time you prepare the system for this kind of action. There were discussions here that when you ruled Professor Religa, which is when you ruled the PiS, nothing was done. Ladies and gentlemen, we have implemented the long-term bill of Minister Balicki, our predecessor. The health service for Minister Balicki, in 2005, was indebted to PLN 12 billion. I was responsible for the extension, I was here in the Senate, several times, and some senators were there. We then extended health care, Minister Balicki's bill, to PLN 1.5 billion. What happened? Today again is PLN 12.5 billion in debt. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to be a little bit responsible for the organisation and functioning of health care. Next line. It's been said that the health workers were very bad back then. I remind you that there was a Law 203 at the time, that doctors' salaries were increased because 18% Anesthesiologists moved abroad in 2005 and these increases caused doctors to stop traveling abroad. There's talk about how many doctors are leaving. Ladies and gentlemen, when the borders were closed, the doctors didn't leave. Now there are open borders and the migration of doctors is the same as in other countries, leaving about 10 . So many German doctors work in England, England, Germany. When there are open borders, such phenomena are observed. And talking about the fact that an excessive number of doctors are leaving is evidence of the unknownness of the case. When we had closed borders and the doctor had to nail the diploma, if he was going to Germany, then of course He didn't go there. We are in the European Union right now, and he doesn't have to nail his diploma, so he's leaving. Now it is said, ladies and gentlemen, that there have been so much spending on increasing health funds. Then why did you reduce your studies to 5 years and include your sixth year as an internship? That's because you had to save money. The expenditure was not increased, but saved at the expense of the quality of student education. At the moment, the studies have been extended to 6 years, because this is a minimum number of years during which the student can master the material. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's analyze the facts, and let's not say that that's when the health expenses were increased. Then why did they cut down the studios and cancel out the internship? I would also like to say that this was the time when it was saved mainly at college parties. We'll analyze the Minister... The Department of Nurses and Obstetrics issued a document in 2013 in which it is clearly stated that the number of trained nurses accepted for the first year of studies decreased from 7 000 to 4 000 in 2011 and 2012. The nurses' strike at the Children's Health Center was caused by this, just a reduction in the number of admissions for college. Why? That's because you had to save money. What's the easiest way to save on what? At college parties and specializations, residency parties. Now we're talking about nothing happening. What about residency? It is said that they entered in 1999. No, the residents were introduced in 2005. Why? The aim was to prevent young doctors from emigrating, leaving abroad, and therefore funding from the state budget was introduced. I was one of those people who was involved. It was planned for 8 and 10 years. We assumed that if the demand for a doctor's job was higher than the supply, we would withdraw from these residents. I would like to remind you that until this period, until 2005, everyone was looking for a place of residence as in the United States: I go, I look for a place of residence, they hire me and I specialize. That's how the Minister did his specialty, and that's how I did my specialty. It was a blessing. That's why it was introduced to prevent doctors from emigration. At that time, in 2006, the Medical Rescue Act was also established. So far, rescue has been financed from the health budget. We have transferred it to the level of budget funding as a public service and it is still budget-funded today. So that saying that health expenses have decreased is a mistake because it's not based on facts. These are facts that can be read from the data of the Central Statistical Office and from the annual reports of the Ministry of Health. I would also like to say that you can talk about billions, but it sounds as if we were saying that in 1989 $100 was spent on health protection in Poland, and now it seems to be $1,000 $200. It is, but the value of the dollar, the value of the $100, was then completely different than now. It's not 10 times. You can't count that in economics. That's not a 10-fold increase in spending. And now we're talking about increasing spending to... You can increase spending and spend 16% GDP, as the United States spends. Please, Professor, go to the U.S. and get sick there when you're on average insured. Voltaren in ointment costs $400. [[That's not true.]] Yeah, well, I was sending my daughter who sprained her leg. [[But I go there, Professor, three times a year.]] I drive too. I worked there and did my degree, Professor. From the point of view of you as a doctor, it's okay. Similarly, the University of Lomonos in Russia is very good in some fields of medicine... [[Mr. Senator...]] Wait a minute, Mr. Marshal... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Excuse me. The University of Lomonos is very good, it is comparable with the best universities in the world, only that health care in Russia is not as good as in Poland or in other countries in the world. [[And with that optimistic accent...]] Mr. Marshal, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u131	Thank you very much. [[I'm sorry I extended it. Thank you.]] [[Applause]] You're welcome, Senator Kraska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I was moved by the statements of the Senators of the Health Commission, the notabene of the Civic Platform, who in their speeches referred to the facts. As you say, the most important are facts, hard data, so I will quote some data showing what Polish patients are dealing with at the moment. I think they were given this during the eight years of the golden reign of the Platform and the PSL. In order to get to the endocrinologist, the patient in Poland is waiting for 200 days, to the vascular surgeon 131, to the cardiologist 106, to the gastroenterologist 81, to the ophthalmologist 65. To get into trauma-orthopaedic surgery, you have to wait an average of 151 days for otolaryngology for children 149, for adults 144, for neurosurgical surgery 117, for rheumatology 74. As if that weren't enough, 400 days are expected for the treatment ward on average. For cataract or hip surgery, which is said to be an exponent of health care... We wait 585 days for cataract surgery in Poland. At the moment, there are 540 000 667 people in line. 0.5 million Poles are waiting for cataract surgery right now. Next: joint endoprosthesis. The knee surgery is 542 days and the hip surgery is 460 days long. And there are 114,000 people waiting for knee surgery, and 104,000 people waiting for hip surgery. It might seem that a simple study such as an MRI or a CT scan, practically available at hand, as it would seem... No, it's not. At the moment, 333,000 people are waiting for an MRI and, on average, 193 days are waiting, and 178,000 are waiting for a CT scan, and 70 days are the average waiting time. That is why I think that this bill that we are dealing with today is the last bell so that the queues to these benefits will be radically shortened. Of course, as the Minister said, you'd like it to be quicker and more money. But no government has made such an effort so far. That is why I think that in this House we should be talking about facts, not dreams, Senators. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u133	Thank you very much. [[Five minutes.]] Mr. Senator. You're welcome. [[Senator Comfort...]] [[What about me?]] For the second time, right? You also signed up for the senator... Oh, you're Senator Comfort. [[I'm here.]] Why don't you go first, Senator... [[Comforter, yes.]] ...Beautiful. [[You're hiding.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u134	Let me just say a few words. I am not a specialist on this subject, but after listening to Senator Kraska, I would like to congratulate you. If I had to give any critical speech about what was going on, all the data we heard here would have been quoted. [[That's yesterday's data.]] Giving these queues after 2 years is an expression of powerlessness... [[It's not a matter of two years. Don't lie to me, Senator.]] ...and where we're at after two years. [[Don't lie to me.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u135	Very brief speech, brief. Congratulations. [[It's so nutritious.]] [[Five minutes.]] You're welcome, Senator. Senator Grodzki for the second time, so five minutes. Will the senator be as brief as his clubmate? No?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u136	Mr. Marshal, I think I'm one of those who never crossed his time, and I'm not going to do that now either. I don't want to do polemics, but, Mr. Senator Wojtyla, I didn't say for a moment that there was a need to reduce expenditure on health care. I don't know, it's from some other deliberations, maybe somebody said something, anyway I didn't say it. Just to be clear, increasing health expenditure is a certain imperative of a modern state. And I agree with the Minister that it's saying that health care will take over everything, that's talking to those who haven't been sick yet. Because if they're sick, they stop talking about this guy, but they demand modern, timely medical care. The essence of the speech, in which I presented the assumptions of the Civic Platform's proposals, the amendments of minorities, comes down to the words: dynamicising this progress. Because I showed on the numbers that in the previous eight years It was the other billions we increased by 216%. Now, out of 88 billion, we're going to get to 193 billion. And, of course, with all the reservations, of course. So this is an increase of 219%. So that's keeping up the current pace. And what this current pace has led us to, we see after what the esteemed previous speaker, Senator Kraska, said: queues, dissatisfied people, dissatisfied residents, dissatisfied doctors In fact, there is no one who would be happy with this system. And that's all we're saying is that we're either gonna dynamize it, or we're gonna stay on that status... I just texted a fellow anesthesiologist in New Jersey, Voltaren costs $40, not $400. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u137	Thank you very much. You kept your word, Senator. Senator Kraska, for the second time, and you later Senator Blackobay. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Well, after Senator Pociej's speech, we could conclude that two years of the rule of law and justice led to huge queues. So in 2015 there were no doctor queues in Poland? Yes, Senator? 'Cause that's what it says. Well, let's not mislead our citizens, Senator. It's very easy to throw facts like you said, which aren't true, perhaps... But these are hard data. And it wasn't Law and Justice that led to these queues, only eight years of Platform government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u139	And Senator Czarnobaj. [[Can I do it as a return?]] [[Good.]] Going twice, so five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u140	I assure you, Marshal, I will speak less. Because the honorable Senator Kraska accused me of not sharing the truth... I just said that after two years of government, there's nothing to brag about. I didn't say you guys created it, but there's nothing to boast about, there's so long queues. That's the first thing. And two: not me, but you promised Poles that there would be no queues since last January. So what you said contradicts what the Minister promised last year because he said to the Poles: the queues have been running out since January. And you scored the Minister from A to Z. Congratulations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u141	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I was inspired by Senator Kraska, my chairman. I try not to say a bad word about the President at all so that, as part of my political declaration, health protection can be removed from such harsh political disputes. This isn't a game, because it's a long way from the election. That's what I've always thought in my life, and I still do. So it is unnecessary, Mr President, that you are on the path again, and that you have been on the path for 8 years... Well, you had to remember 1947 or 2005. When did most people leave Poland, Mr President? When did the most doctors, in what years did the most doctors leave Poland? I'll tell you what, take a look. Between 2005 and 2007. Most people, most doctors left at that time. And what, I'm supposed to say it's the law and justice? Those who say that are demagogues. As someone here has said, I think Mr. Minister, Professor: when borders are opened, people simply migrate naturally, so let's not use what is a natural need for a man to look for places where it is better, for a change... etc. It is therefore unnecessary, Mr President... And as for the statistics, I'm going to say this as if to confirm what Senator Pociej said. After all, in December 2016, only three disciplines extended the queue. And you can also find an excuse, the Minister certainly knows the reasons. It's just that there's one thing I want to talk about. Let's not talk about it in a declarative way: they're gonna cut short because we've given you a lot of money. Shortening the queues, good patient service, good, so to speak, well-being of health professionals This is the goal, not the demagogical talk of the rise for 8 years. Enough with the melody. Well, if you want, keep telling each other. Some of the things the Platform did were a mistake, and it was shown during the election. I can also make a declaration on those I consider to be a mistake, also in health care. But Senator Grodzki showed it, it was not that health care was completely rejected, and the Minister's proposals are moving towards the fact that the level of expenditure is about to continue. And we say, "Dear ones, let's see if it's not worth reducing this period of investigation to a certain cost model with this good economic situation. And the queues, Mr President, I hope, will be smaller. I'm counting on it, and I'll hold the Minister's word that we'll hear at the end of our term of office. In a no longer declarative sense, but in a real sense, if the queues in which specialties have been shortened, and if they do not shorten, the measures we have taken to shorten them in the following years. I'm talking about shots, overlaps, technology, etc., etc. That is why I call on us to take this maybe not one, but one of the few areas that we have taken out of such an intense political discussion and to talk about what is the reality of what we can do and what we can do in health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u143	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We will proceed to item 9 of the agenda... [[Or maybe the Minister would like to...]] [[Voice from the room: Minister.]] [[May I?]] And the Minister wants to speak? You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: So shy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u144	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! Thank you so much for giving me the floor. In fact, I've already presented these most important things before the break. Once again, I would like to emphasise very strongly and repeat that I think there are no differences between us in our dreams. We'd like to move faster, we'd like more. However, we differ in our approach to a case that we simply call responsibility. It's not like the state, offering it faster and more, tells us where the money would come from. 'Cause talking about excise duty, taxing one way or another... Ladies and gentlemen, this money in the budget is today, so it's not new money, it's just that you have to be so aware that rebuilding the state budget is a process that just needs to go on. A solid, reliable analysis has shown that what we can certainly guarantee are those levels that are in the bill. Once again, these are the levels guaranteed as a minimum. If the economic situation allows for this, we will, of course, do more and faster. Just a few more words about the facts that were quoted here. Well, I have to correct some of the information that was given here. In fact, in the period 2008-2015 nominally, health expenditures have increased And, as I said before the break, they grew automatically, i.e. the labour market was getting better and wages were better, higher, and therefore the contribution to the National Health Fund was automatically increasing But, ladies and gentlemen, at the same time, the interest you spoke about by Senator Grodzki, i.e. The proportion of health funds in these years counted against GDP, as we count it in this law, unfortunately behaved slightly differently. And you just have to say it right here. The results are like this, please pay attention, because I'm going to give you a string of numbers. In 2008, 4,44, in 2009 4,61 and then in the following years: 4,5; 4,29; 4,21; 4,21. In 2014, 4,26, in 2015 4,34... So in 2015, this percentage did not even reach the 2010 level. It's just that there was an inheritance at the time. It was not a big drop, but it was noticeable. And, ladies and gentlemen, what happened next? In 2015, the implementation of 4.34, in 2016, assuming 4.39, and the execution is likely to be 4.73. Ladies and gentlemen, these numbers are just facts. And the second point that Senator Grodzki was kind to say, and which needs to be corrected, is that next year the budget of the Minister of Health is about PLN 100 million less for health. It's true. But why? You have to understand these numbers. That's the number that can and is smaller because it's the money that's meant to pay contributions for unemployed people. As unemployment declines, the budget of these measures simply needs less. These funds appear as contributions to the National Health Fund. So there's no harm done here. And please... Because this is another person who says: there is less money for health in the state budget. Well, luckily there are just as few of them, because much more money will be in the form of contributions to the National Health Fund paid by those people who stop being unemployed and find employment. I would also like to thank you for a few votes, especially Senator Wojtyla, who talks about rationalising expenditure. It is quite clear that the increasing expenditure on health protection must be accompanied by a rationalisation of expenditure. And we're doing it. These 2 laws, such as that, can be said to be a fundamental law introducing a network of hospitals and a law on basic health care, these are, you can say, such pillars. But there are many other solutions, both introduced and introduced. These introduced are e.g. so-called. IWISSING The Investment Proposals Assessment Instrument in the Health Sector The revolution, which has been going on for a year, in terms of investment in health care, can be said to have caused. Unfortunately, so far it has been very often that investments, based on someone's ambition, intuition, were simply misplaced. And you're sure to hear in your constituency about a variety of very expensive machines that have been bought and haven't even been unwrapped, they haven't been removed from the boxes, nobody uses them. It's not because there's some bad will, it's because no one's ever thought about what it's gonna be like when they have that machine. But there was a ribbon cut, and so on. etc. It's over. At the moment, we are absolutely assessing any investment to be financed by public funds. And that's also the rationalization of these expenses. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about health-care-related expenditure calculated in total, not just on benefits. That's what I call it. National health bill. That's how it counts in Poland and around the world. There are also investments or training of medical staff in these expenditures. And we rationalize all of this in a way that allows us to think that the next measures that will influence, but we will use them more meaningfully than we have used in the past. With regard to the solutions that we are currently introducing, also rationalising these expenditures, a new law on State Medical Rescue is being drawn up, which will be in Parliament any moment now. A law is also being prepared, in my opinion a groundbreaking one, which will appear at the beginning of next year, namely the Quality Act in the protection of the health and safety of the patient. So, you can say, finally... The location of Poland among countries that look at what is happening in health care... Indicators, various kinds of analyses, which will be conducted and will be the basis for determining the remuneration for health care institutions, are also one of these rationalizing elements. And finally, the whole big area we're working on is the state's drug policy. There is a great deal to be done in this regard. And I want to brag about it. the initiative that we are now implementing together But it's a Polish initiative. In the Visegrad Group, or actually the Visegrad Plus Group, because together with the Visegrad Group countries and Lithuania, Croatia and Slovenia. It is about preparing for a joint negotiation of the conditions for the acquisition of expensive medicines for our countries. This is a great chance to significantly lower the price of medicines, especially the most expensive, most innovative ones. And I would like to inform you that we are already in the process of preparing for joint negotiations on three very expensive medicines, and I will not speak in what area, because for now it should be, so to speak, covered, covered by a mystery, but this is a very concrete project. First of all, there is the question of expertise from all these countries, and Poland is definitely a leading country in this respect; second, the issue of population. We ourselves have a population of less than 40 million, and together these countries have sixty-seven million. Surely there is a very good chance that the prices of medicines will be better. And these are examples of how we want to spend this money well. Finally, the question of these queues; this is the last thing I wanted to mention. Ladies and gentlemen, the statistics that Mr Kraska spoke about are statistics from the end of 2016 and not from 2017, so not after 2 years, only after a year, and in fact this is the first statistics from the period of our governments. These queues were certainly not born in 2016, but have been built up for a very long time over the previous years. I would like to say that both in 2016 and 2017 we are seeing a huge increase in the number of services provided, which are the subject of these queues, just changes the demographic situation and the demand for these benefits is increasing, especially in groups such as those characteristic of old age, I mean orthopedic surgery of the hip and knee joints and cataracts. These are the consequences, you can say, our success, that we live longer and longer. So it's not like it's some kind of embarrassment to us who are in charge right now. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a shame for Poland and I have no doubt about it. Speaking of the necessity of introducing this law, we are simply talking about the certain truth that we are dealing with. This truth is that in many years the great problem of providing services has grown in Poland. Well, this cannot be tolerated, it cannot be that people, as long as Mr Kraska has said, have to wait for the benefit, especially in some of these areas, because some of these queues, you can say, are not so dramatic. More importantly, at the end of 2017, in many groups that Senator Kraska has mentioned, these queues will certainly be smaller. So, once again, I would like to ask all of you, both the Senators of Law and Justice and the opposition, very much to support this law, which really has the chance to bring us closer to the family of countries treating health care as a priority, as citizens expect. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u145	Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law The text of the Act is contained in print No 649 and the report of the Committee in print No 649 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Robert Mątkow, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law amending the Law. The Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters and certain other laws are contained in Seym Prints No 1814 and 1883, relating to its Senate Prints Nos 649 and 649 A. It was a government bill. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of the work. The bill submitted to the Senate on the amendment of the law on the code of conduct in cases of misconduct and certain other laws aims to indicate the entity liable to cover the costs of proceedings in cases of misconduct arising in the course of investigations carried out by an authority under the authority of local government units, namely municipal guard or municipal guard. This includes, in particular, claims for participation in witness investigations, accompanying person, expert, translator, specialist and office-based lawyer or counsel. In line with the wording of the existing Article. 117 §1 of the Code of Conduct for Offences All expenditure in the course of infringement proceedings shall be provided by the Treasury on a provisional basis, with the exception of the rights of the defender or representative established by the party. In the current state of law, there is no legal basis for imposing a temporary obligation on municipalities to pay for expenditure incurred in the course of investigations carried out by the municipal or municipal guards. The Act shall enter into force on 1 January 2018. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions and the Legislative Commission shall request the adoption of the Act without amendment. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u147	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[No questions.]] No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Mr. Michał Woś, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice. The Minister wants to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Woś: No.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Czerwinski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This will be a continuation of what was at the committee meeting, because the answer I received there is not satisfactory to me. I am talking about purely legislative issues related to the way in which the new rules are introduced. In place of 3 old provisions, namely Article. 117.119, you are proposing 5 new provisions. Everything would be fine if this new matter was added at the end, but unfortunately this new matter is added... she kind of pushes the old matter. So right now we have this situation, that if any other law appealed, for example. to the current Article. 118... now this matter is in art. 119 etc. It's all been mixed up. Do you not think that the Minister had to use the technique that is normally used, namely articles concerning the same matter to be left in the same numbering and additional articles, e.g. with a letter or any additional markings... Explain to me why you did it so that any reference to articles from the section on costs of proceedings will simply be inadequate to the matter which the articles describe.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u149	Minister, please respond. I'd like to invite you to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u150	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Senator! As at the committee meeting, I will also confirm here that this is a standard legislative procedure. We're adding 2 new articles... something completely standard, which was also confirmed by the Senate Legislative Office, is that an article that ends some department, and this former article. 119 was finishing the bill... The same standard is that the last article, i.e. in this case the following article. 121, it refers collectively to provisions which in some way constitute an exception to the regulation of a particular department. Here this principle, the principle of legislative art, has been preserved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u151	Thank you. Are there any other questions for the Minister? No questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. Then I will close the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in order to improve the consistency of the terminology of the legal system. The text of the Act is contained in print No 651, and the report of the Committee in print No 651 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u152	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Legislative Commission, which discussed at its meeting on 28 November the law amending certain laws in order to improve the consistency of the terminology of the legal system. It is a purely technical law which amends three laws. It is related to a petition addressed to the Sejm by Mr Sebastian Adamowicz, which the committee considered to be legitimate. The purpose of the Act is to make minor changes that adapt the terms, i.e. terminology, to the current legal situation. The Legislative Office did not raise any objections to the law during the work of the committee. No amendments were tabled either. The Commission has unanimously voted in favour of the law and this is what it calls for in the High House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u153	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you, Senator. The draft law was introduced by the Sejm Committee. No one from the Sejm represents this project. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Bear signed up for the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u154	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The debate on the Law on amending certain laws to improve the consistency of the terminology of the legal system is a good time to recall the principles of lawmaking, the good principles of law-making. There are no separate legislative principles adopted for our parliament. However, we can use the principles of legislative technique annexed to the Regulation of the President of the Council of Ministers of 20 June 2002. According to §1 of these principles, the drafting of the law is preceded, inter alia.: describing the state of social relations in an area requiring public intervention and identifying the desired directions for their change; analysing the current state of law and identifying the anticipated social, economic, organisational, legal and financial impacts of each of the solutions under consideration. It should include: identify the effects of existing legislation in the field concerned and identify the objectives to be achieved by the adoption of a new law and, consequently, choose the optimal legal solution under the conditions in question. Pursuant to §2 of the Rules, the law should fully regulate the matter in question without leaving any relevant parts of the matter outside the scope of its normalisation. §3 requires such construction of the law, so that the rules of regulation adopted therein do not have to be introduced by numerous exceptions. The law must not include provisions that regulate matters beyond its scope and subject matter. The law may not amend or repeal the rules governing cases which do not fall within its scope or are not related to them. In accordance with §18 of the principles of legislative technique, the title of the law should be briefly and adequately informed about its content. In short, the provisions of the Act should consist of a whole corresponding to a clearly distinct regulation, and already the title of the Act itself is to inform what the Act concerns, not to mention that the regulation should be complete enough so that there is no reason to supplement it with other acts. Does the Law on the amendment of certain laws that I am considering today to improve the consistency of the terminology of the legal system meet the principles that I am quoting? Such a question should be asked. Was its adoption preceded by a precise analysis of the subject matter of regulation? From the original justification contained in the Parliamentary Printing No. 1891 of 14 September this year, it is the result of acceptance by the competent Parliamentary Committee of the petition submitted by Mr. Sebastian Adamowicz. The citizen pointed out several inconsistencies in several different laws. The committee shared his opinion, and the Sejm followed her. It's true that in these three laws that we're updating, we're removing some anachronisms. But can we say that we remove all anachronisms in the labour code, in the electoral code, in the law on the implementation of legislative initiatives by citizens? Does the adoption today of a law amending certain laws in order to improve the consistency of the terminology of the legal system guarantee that within the next few months or several years there will be no need to revise neither the labour code nor the electoral code? It's a rhetorical question. Changes in codes are coming. Is it possible to speak of a clearly distinct subject of the Act under consideration today? It's also a rhetorical question. Unfortunately, the code of work and the electoral code have little more to do with the fact that they are codes. The title of the Act under consideration does not even indicate what acts are being amended. A horse with a row of who will guess that right here, in the law amending certain laws to improve the terminology coherence of the legal system, will find good changes to 2 codes. Perhaps it is important that the adoption of our bill will result in As suggested by the title of this law, improvement of the terminology coherence of the system. I suppose so, but how serious is this improvement? Do we remove from the Polish legal system e.g. 50% or 10% inconsistencies, or maybe only 1% Incoherence? I suspect this bill changes the fraction of these inconsistencies. Looks like the mountain had a mouse. Instead of admiring how easy it is to improve the terminology of the legal system when the citizen suggested in a petition how to do it, let's take this work seriously. Mr. Marshal, the quality of the law could be the Senate's mission to convince its compatriots that our House is ordering the legal system in Poland. This could be provided that we take the matter of ordering the legal system seriously. However, the bill we are working on today seems to be a law that has little to do with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u155	Thank you, Senator. Would any of your senators like to speak again? [[Voice from the room: No.]] I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Law on the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude. The text of the Act is contained in print No 647 and the report of the Commission In print 647 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Czesław Ryszka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u156	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Dear Minister. I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft act on the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude, print No 647. The Committee on Culture and Media at its meeting on 4 December this year examined the draft law establishing the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude and defining its organisation and principles of operation. The aim of the Institute is to initiate, undertake and support actions aimed at commemorating and honoring people living, dead or murdered, deserving to the Polish people, both in Poland and abroad, in the work of preserving memory or helping people of Polish nationality or Polish citizens of other nationalities who are victims of Soviet crimes, Nazi German crimes, nationalistic crimes or other crimes that constitute crimes against peace, humanity or war crimes between 8 November 1917 and 31 July 1990. As Mr Małgorzata Gawin explained in her explanatory memorandum, the tasks of the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude include, in particular: conducting, initiating and supporting scientific research; conducting and expanding databases, books and archives; popularising, documenting and expanding knowledge about the problem of the Institute's activities; disseminating knowledge about those who provide assistance to Poles; initiating, conducting and supporting information, educational and cultural activities on the subject of the Institute's activities; applying for a medal to be given to Virtus et Fraternitas and submitting an initiative to give the Eastern Cross or the Western Cross; conducting publishing activities; organising celebrations, conferences, symposias, lectures, seminars, discussions and other popularising activities; cooperating with national, foreign and international scientific institutions and associations; production and co-production of audiovisual material; popularization of the subject matter of the Institute's activities. The bodies of the Institute shall be the Director and the Council of Memory. As far as revenue is concerned, the subjective subsidy laid down annually in the Budget Act will be transferred by the Minister of Culture and National Heritage from the appropriations entered in that part of the budget to which he is the authorising officer. In 2017, the Minister will grant the Institute a grant of PLN 75 million from the State budget. Unused grant appropriations this year shall be carried over to the following year. The Act is to enter into force 7 days after the date of the announcement. By order of order, the Minister shall appoint a representative for the organisation of the Institute within 14 days of the entry into force of the Act. During the committee's deliberations, the Senators of the Civic Platform raised a number of doubts. One question concerned the name of the institute, as if too pathetic, other tasks that the Institute of National Remembrance, the Polish Academy of Sciences, state archives or museums perform at the moment. They asked about the details of the funding of the institute, the lack of a seat, too short vacathio legis was questioned. The proposals for amendments by the senate legislator were supported. In fact, it suggested numerous amendments, mainly of a terminology nature, which were not accepted due to the proposed proposal to adopt the law without amendments. The Commission voted in favour of this proposal. Mr Marshal, High Izbo, establishing the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude, the applicant, and more specifically the Members of Law and Justice, want to appreciate the heroic people saving Poles, often paying for it with their lives and their families. So it is a celebration, but also a reminder of those people and foreigners who rescued Poles. It is to pay the debt and at the same time pay tribute to those great friends of Poland and Poles who have shown themselves. The Gospel principle is that there is no greater love than giving life for your friends. But it is also to be a scientific, research institute, gathering archives from around the world, archives on this subject. I don't need to remind you how painful we have history and how important it is to tell future generations. In fact, the worst elements that crossed Europe in the 20th century have affected us Poles the most. Therefore, an institution should be created, which will not only document crimes, but also honor those who saved Poles and Polish citizens. As Senator Jarosław Rusiecki said at the committee meeting, no one should question the validity of the establishment of the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude. For many years, nothing has been done to make sure that our compatriots are truly remembered, who have given away all that is most precious. My own life! For Polishness. Only now, many years too late, thanks to the initiative of the group of Members will we pay tribute and show our gratitude to those who have suffered the greatest sacrifice for Poland. I would like to add that the intention of the initiators is to establish a Polish institute like Yad Vashem in Jerusalem. And this is a very good idea in my opinion, not only to honor those who helped Poles, but also to gather Polish and foreign archives on this subject in one place. This is undoubtedly a safeguard of our country for the future. And it will be a huge scientific base for present and future historians. Such a task can only be undertaken by a new institute, specifically established for this purpose, called the Solidarity and Fortitude Institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u157	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Fedorovich came forward. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u158	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. Mr. Senator, please tell me... Such questions had already been raised at the committee meeting, i.e. from the transcription of the committee. Why such a serious task, which I do not agree with at the moment, but let's agree that this is a serious budgetary task... Why is it at such a rate that the project appeared on October 26th... Why should such a serious task, which you have just mentioned in your speech, go on the way of a message, of which, please don't be surprised, I will say it later in the speech, but for the time being... Why is this happening so fast? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u159	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u160	Mr Senator, Chairman of the Committee on Culture and Media, I will answer this question from myself and I am sure the Minister will answer it more precisely. It's just that there's money at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage to spend on this purpose, so there's no need to delay. There's no need to wait.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u161	Senator Comfort. [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: How are they, it is necessary to spend? What's the argument?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u162	Thank you very much. I'd like to know... I would like the senator to describe the mechanisms: how does the statutory fund differ from the reserve fund, where will the profits referred to in the article come from? Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Three? Because that's where we talk about profit distribution. Where are the profits coming from? And where will the money come from for the reserve fund referred to in the article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 is written: The Institute's net loss coincides with the reserve fund? Where's the money for that backup fund coming from? I'd really like to ask... And what's the difference between a statutory fund and a reserve fund?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u163	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u164	Mr. Senator, this is a question that I'm sure the Minister will answer. All I'm going to say is that in the Institute's statute, we have business, even film production, and so on, so that there will certainly be some profits.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u165	Mr. Senator would like to ask you a question? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u166	Yes... Well, I didn't get an answer at all. So the senator doesn't know the difference between the reserve fund and the statutory fund, where the profits will come from. Because...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u167	Well, the committee hasn't been discussed in such detail...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u168	But Mr. Senator has given such a wide-ranging laudation that, I understand, Mr. Senator, you understand where the money comes from and how this whole institute is made. But I understand that the senator doesn't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u169	75 million is a budget grant, isn't it? And that's the money, so to speak, statutory. [[What about the backup?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u170	The next speaker asking the question is Senator Włosowicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u171	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question. You said that the Minister would appoint a representative for the establishment of the Institute, and that the authorities, the bodies of the Institute, are the Director and the Council of Remembrance. I would like to ask whether the Minister also appoints the Director of the Institute and how the Council of Remembrance will be created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u172	Well, it's up to the Minister, so he's probably gonna do it under the regulation.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u173	You're asking Senator Comfort again. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u174	Mr. Senator, Art. 3 (1) (a) 2. The Institute's tasks include, in particular, conducting, initiating and supporting research, conducting and expanding databases, books, archives, etc., popularising, documenting and expanding knowledge. Mr. Senator, the IPN tasks are practically the same. Would you mind explaining to me how these three points are going to be different from the activities of the body you want to establish?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u175	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u176	Thank you. During the committee's deliberations, the Minister explained this very precisely. I think if you ask that question... [[I wasn't in session. I'm not on the committee.]] That's why the Minister is at your disposal. I have no intention of prolonging our sitting. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: But you are the rapporteur.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u177	Ladies and gentlemen, the next speaker is Marshal Borusewicz. Mr. Marshal is asking a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u178	Mr. Senator, I'd like to know what the criteria are... What will be the difference between giving a medal to.Virtus et Fraternitas and giving the Eastern Cross and the Western Cross? As I remember, the Eastern Cross is also to be given to people who deserved to support Polish citizens during repression. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 (1) (a) 6 is the provision that applying to the President of the Republic of Poland for the award of these 3 medals... When the medal will be suitable, for example, Virtus et Fraternitas, and when. The East Cross? That's the first question. Two. In fact, in the budget... Exactly. Is there 75 million in the budget? If so, do you think by the end of the year It's December 5, 75 million? [[This is for next year.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u179	Two questions, Mr. Senator. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u180	Thank you. Mr. Marshal, the medal of Virtus et Fraternitas is a medal of its own institute, but the institute will also be able to claim the Western Cross and the Eastern Cross. Since this is such a serious institute, it should have the opportunity to honor the people who deserved it. As far as money is concerned, this year the institute may not even spend a zloty, because in the bill we wrote down that all the money could go to the next year. This is an exception when it comes to budgeting such institutes, institutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u181	Senator Comfort. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u182	Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but I'm going to go back to my question, because the statement that the senator doesn't want to prolong the session is not for me... Or the senator tells me he can't answer my question about the overlap between the Institute and the IPN. I'm gonna take this, and I'm gonna stop asking that question, but I'd like to hear it. Or the senator will explain it to me. Why do these tasks overlap, and why should taxpayers pay $75 million for something they're already paying for? If I remember correctly, the IPN budget is over 200 million. I'd like an explanation. That's the first question. And the other. Are you Senator... Was there any conversation at the committee meeting... In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 6 (6) (a) 5 shall be determined when the Director of the Institute is called off. And here is a very rigid framework when you can call off the director of the institute, who is appointed for a term of five years. Was there a conversation about that if, for example. will the retirement age thresholds be lowered, and it will also be possible to thank such a director, as the President of the Supreme Court may be thanked at the moment?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u183	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u184	Mr. Senator, let me start with the second question. At the committee meeting, we did not discuss this in such detail. There were no discussions at all about the appointment and dismissal of directors. So that perhaps the Minister will answer that question. As far as the activities of IPN, PAS, museums are concerned, because there are special museums of the Second World War, history of Poland, etc.. The point is that from this we can see that we have so many different institutions that are involved in the study of history from 1917 to today... until 1990, that it was appropriate to establish an institute which would gather from all these institutions archives on this subject, so that researchers, for example. History could have gotten everything in one place. And you can actually say that these actions are taking place. But this institute has a unique task, because it is supposed to gather, so to speak, the entire dossier of these people, those heroes who helped Poles and saved Poles and foreigners. E.g. The IPN doesn't do foreigners at all, does it? All he does is, so to speak, communist crimes. And even if that's the reason... [[Excuse me, did the senator say that the IPN only deals with communist crimes?]] Well, communist and, of course, the crimes of World War II. [[Oh, I see.]] This institute, on the other hand, has been working since 1917, hasn't it? So that we have the whole period of World War I... [[Voice from the hall: World War I has been going on since 1914.]] Well, the end of World War I is here, isn't it? Well... [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u185	Are you finished with the senator? [[Yeah, well, it's just...]] Senator Florek is asking a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u186	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question. 'Cause I'm starting nothing... After two years in this Senate, I'm a little amazed at the spending of funds. Because we have always been told that there must be a law first, first we must adopt a law, and only after this law is passed, can we talk about budget resources, about budgeting, and before that it cannot be predicted. Now it turns out that quickly, quickly, we want to proceed over this law, and it turns out that there are, as the rapporteur says, financial resources. There's no law yet, and there's already financial resources. [[Security.]] So I can't really understand how you can, when the bill isn't here yet, secure the funds for this bill. Well, it's interesting that in the other laws that we've adopted, this couldn't be done, and in this situation you can... [[Mr. Senator, will there be a question?]] Yeah, that's the question: these measures. And then there's the second question. As for those medals you were talking about, what will be the number of these medals? How many do you expect? How many medals are there gonna be in the year? Who's gonna admit these medals? Who's gonna hand them over? What's the situation with the medal award? So it's these two questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u187	Mr. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u188	Mr. Senator, there are actually no such detailed records in the bill about money or medals and so on, because it's just an institute in the statue of nascendi, right? Therefore, let us leave the regulations of the Minister of Culture and National Heritage a precise definition of how this institute is to function and what its organisation will be. Like I said, there's money at the Ministry to use. The idea of establishing this institute was born quite a long time ago. It has now taken the shape of a bill, a draft law, and indeed very quickly we want to adopt and implement a law. But all those questions and doubts... Because in fact, compared to other laws, which must have everything exactly defined, how to spend money, etc., it is like a completely different project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u189	You're asking Senator Boris-Damian.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u190	Mr. Senator, I was at the committee meeting, so I know the whole point of your reasoning, your speech and the decision that you've made, so you'll have to start spending the 75 million as soon as possible, and hence the rush to get the president to sign it and so on. But my outrage as a result of your actions and decisions is that you have not allowed almost any kind of amendments that have been notified by the Legislative Bureau to be examined. And these amendments are really good if you want to respond positively to this law. This is the best proof that you didn't care about what the bill was supposed to be, what it would be about, whether it was needed or whether the 75 million would seem right, necessary or just because they were to be spent. And I would like to point out that you are unable to answer a number of questions by your colleagues, but you are referring to the Minister. But the Minister at the meeting was also unable to answer a number of questions such as: how it will be organised, how many people will be, where it will be located, why the tasks that have been calculated in this bill fall within the scope of the IPN... [[Is that a question?]] ...and why some activities of the Polish Academy of Sciences, the General Directorate of State Archives... [[Senator, please formulate the question.]] ...the Veterans' Office... I would like to hear why it falls within the competence of such a large number of offices that deal with all the requirements referred to here, such as conducting, initiating and supporting scientific research, running and expanding databases, books and archives... Museums do it, too. Just because there's money to be spent, you have to spend 75 million extra, creating a new institute. Explain to me why, why.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u191	Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u192	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, you answered that question yourself, listing so many institutions in which these archives and documents are scattered. Now there will be an institution that will gather all this in one place and for the researcher of history everything will be in one place. That's once. Which medals can be awarded, how can it honor e.g. Polish Academy of Sciences? The same I.P.N. honors for completely... The Cross of Freedom and Solidarity is completely different. That is why the creation of such an institution is really appropriate. As far as the legislative amendments you mentioned are concerned, most of them are a little terminologyical. The minister said they were cosmetic, very much, so to speak, symbolically called it. But it's obvious, and I think she understood it for you, too. Any amendment to this project... [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: Delays.]] ...lates, extends the legislative process and... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: But what's the rush?]] ...this institute won't enter... I mean, it's not going to work this year, which means this institute is going to lose 75 million zlotys. Well, that's the simplest, logical answer, very clear, clear to everyone... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: This is immoral.]] ...who uses a little sense.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u193	The question is, Senator Pociej. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: This is immoral.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u194	Mr. Senator, you said that's what it was done to be able to do. I'm talking about the difference between the IPN... You said that's what this bill was made for, to go on until 1917. Well, then I'd like to read you the article. 1 concerning IPN: registration, collection, storage of data, etc., etc., also the security authorities of the Third Reich and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, concerning committed persons of Polish nationality or Polish citizens of other nationalities during the period from 8 November 1917 to 31 July 1990. 1, where it is 1917... Then there's the article... there's points 1, 5, 6, where there's also talk about documents from the period between 1917 and 1990. My first question is this: why, if you are not right, that there is any difference in terms of the range of years, because in the case of IPN, and here you are in 1917, do you do what you praise? That's my first question. And the second question is this. You're saying there'll finally be documents on these crimes in one place. After all, for five years we have been rolling and giving... every year we have extended the possibility of financing IPN so that IPN can have its headquarters. You remember, in your previous term, there was a struggle for money for four years, money entirely from outer space, so you could archive documents there to digitize them. But if you're saying that these documents will be in one place, and it says there's going to be a second place, then excuse me, please tell me what the argument is... Because here, as it turns out, they will be in second place. [[Two questions.]] Two answers. [[Two questions.]] Time is exactly the same as the IPN, and you create 2 places where the documents will be.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u195	Mr. Senator, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u196	I'll answer you with a parabola. We're creating this institute because if you come to power, then... you want to take out the IPN. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u197	You've already exhausted the answers to both questions. [[Oh, yeah.]] You are asking the question of Marshal Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u198	Mr Senator Rapporteur, Art. 5... lips. Point 5 (4). Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 5 speaks of a situation in which the Institute's Director may remain... [[Talking in the O.R.]] He says this: The appeal of the Director of the Institute before the end of his term of office takes place in the case of... And here are clearly mentioned various situations: resignation; loss of the ability to perform the duties entrusted to him when he is sick; committing a crime when he was convicted by a final judgment for a deliberate crime; and, finally, making an untruthful illustration statement. I'm interested in point 4. It says here that the Director may be called off for breach of the law in connection with his position. Would you mind explaining what's going on here? What kind of legislation is this about? [[Mr. Senator...]] Because as far as criminal law and conviction are concerned, there is another provision cited here. So... It seems to me that this is a blank rule: a breach of the law in connection with the position taken... I think it's a blank recipe, which means you can do it here. I mean, things... That's why I'd like you to tell me what the law is about, to violate what law it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u199	Sure. There's a question. I'm asking for an answer now.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u200	Mr. Marshal, I can only answer this: the details of the appointment and dismissal of the director or the board of the institute at the committee meeting were not mentioned at all. So I'm not gonna infiltrate, let's say, into how I understand this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u201	Thank you. You're asking Senator Fedorovich a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u202	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, we're on this committee together, and we've been in Parliament for so many years, you as a senator, I as a Member... Well, it must be crazy for you to be uncomfortable that you are voting on the bill, prepared not in such a way in the case of this type of institution... but in a message with so many amendments to our own Legislative Office. I have these amendments, of course, and I will make them in the debate. Well, aren't we bending our consciences into this kind of action? It's easier for us, of course, because we're against such an occurrence. But we all have one conscience. First of all, the bill is not as well prepared as it could be if made by the Ministry, and secondly, there are amendments that I will make. And I will actually make these amendments, Mr. Marshal, just so that they are rejected. Well, that's the fiction we're gonna be... [[Please fold.]] I will, but during the performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u203	Thank you. Do you want to answer that, Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u204	Mr President, there was a question of discomfort. You have it. I don't have it. [[That's what I'm saying...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u205	Senator Pociej, would you like to ask one more question? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u206	I'd like to know if since... And the senator said, And I have to say, I appreciate that honesty. The point is to make this 75 million PLN this year, not to make this institute work. And once again, I appreciate the honesty you've shown us... [[It's not going to work, it's going to be in the budget...]] [[Mr. Senator, allow me to draw up a question.]] But I'd like to know if Mr. Senator... Once again, I stress: I was not at the committee meeting, and the answer is not directly from the provisions of the law. Will next year automatically power the next 75 million zlotys of this... [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u207	The answer was given... [[And the institute will already have 150 million zlotys.]] Thank you. Marshal Borusewicz is asking a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u208	Mr. Senator, in the article. 6 on the grounds of who may be appointed as Director of the Institute. And in the article. 6 in point 7 is the illustrious provision: a person who has not been in the professional service nor has worked in the security authorities, etc., etc. It wasn't a co-worker, it wasn't a co-worker. I get it. But I think that's contrary to the words in my mouth. 5 point 5, according to which the cancellation of the Director of the Institute before the end of his term of office shall take place in the event of a false declaration as referred to in Article. Paragraph 7 1 Act on disclosure of documentation... regarding work or cooperation with security authorities. I see a contradiction here. As far as it's clear that the person who didn't work... I mean, I think it's art. 7, according to which the Director may not be a person who has served as a professional, worked in a security authority or was a secret collaborator, is sufficient. That's enough. What's the point of saying that the one who made the wrong statement... [[Mr. Senator...]] Because what does that suggest? That if... we introduce a rule here that, in my opinion, is contrary to this law, because the deposit... I would understand if the non-compliance of the statement would result in the loss of this position. So someone who submitted, according to the facts, that he was a secret co-worker, can do this job, right? But the previous recipe says he can't do it. So why repeat it and introduce the galimatias?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u209	Mr. Marshal finished? [[Yeah, I'm done. I see a contradiction here, Senator.]] I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u210	Mr. Marshal, there was no mention of this at the committee meeting, but in my opinion it seems to me that every now and then it turns out that someone made a statement that he was not, and then there are documents proving that he was.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u211	But there's a recipe that says if someone was a co-worker, they can't be the director. [[Yeah, but...]] Which means he's losing his job. [[But he could've kept it from me.]] Right. [[Is the senator finished?]] [[Mr. Marshal knows all about it, so...]] This provision, the repetition of this provision, which says that whoever made a statement against the facts, etc., suggests that if someone was an agent and made a statement that he was an agent or an employee, then it's okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u212	Mr. Marshal explained the question. [[Yes. I just see the contradiction of these two provisions in this bill.]] Then we'll ask if there's an additional answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u213	I see no contradiction here, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u214	Thank you. The next question you're asking is Senator Comfort. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u215	Thank you. Mr. Senator, was there any mention of how many people will be employed and what will the payroll fund be, how many more historians who will write what they are asked to write will be able to support this institute?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u216	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u217	Senator, there was no mention of this at the committee's session, and I wouldn't dare enter the minister's shoes now, so to speak, which regulations will determine it all.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u218	Thank you. Are there any more questions? Senator Augustine. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u219	Mr. Senator, don't you think it would be much better and wiser if a significant amount of the funds that are foreseen here were transferred to the Institute of National Remembrance to carry out these tasks that are written here? I will agree with the intention of the bill, except that it has never been so in Poland since now that there was no need to commemorate those who helped us, because today we do not want to help others. So we have to show that we were in need and helped. This is very important, I agree with the senator, right now, to wake up conscience and show: please, we were in need, we were helped, in Iran, in India, in Africa, somewhere there were wonderful people, and today we say: fig. [[Question.]] So maybe somebody can think of something. But is that why you have to set up an institute? Isn't it better if I just, uh, agree to spend some decent money on this business? Because we're so sensitive about who did this to us, we know criminals, well, maybe not all of them yet, too bad, but we have to show them too. And it's a noble intention. These beautiful characters. But does it need an institute if we have an IPN?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u220	The senator's done asking. Please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u221	The answer, Mr. Senator, is already here. The point is, the IPN can't do this job. Were you in Jerusalem at Yad Vashem? [[Yes, I was, of course.]] I'm sure you were. This is supposed to be our Yad Vashem, but much wider, because it's also supposed to be a research, scientific facility. The Minister said yesterday during the committee's deliberations that we have 130,000 certificates, information on victims and heroes. Well, there must be an institution that will analyze it, digitize it, develop it. This is a job for future generations. We really are very hurt in our history when it comes to showing heroes. I will remind you that last year there was a conference at the Higher School of Social and Media Culture in Toruń, and there was an opening of this memorial chapel of Poles who helped Jews. Something unusual... I was there on Sunday to see it. There was also a beautiful album called "Remembrance and Hope." For many, for the world it is an opening of eyes and showing how brave Poles were, who risked their lives to save their neighbors Jews, and repeatedly gave their lives for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u222	Are they... [[Mr. Marshal...]] Does the senator want to ask you another question? [[Mr. Marshal, just a question.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u223	Wouldn't the Institute of National Remembrance have been able to do so if he had received money and, as a result of the amendment of the Act on the Institute, would we have written down these tasks for him?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u224	Mr. Senator, there could be one museum in Poland that would gather all the exhibits, souvenirs and all our heritage could show, but it would be a little funny. The more museums that deal with the history and awakening of this Polish identity, tradition, etc., the better. This institute will have its tasks, which in fact are somewhat similar to what the Institute of National Remembrance does, the Polish Academy of Sciences, museums or archives. Well, go to the New Act Archives and look for information, news about those who helped the Poles. Yes, there are such certificates and information, but it would be good to gather it in one place, digitize it and show it. It will be our great wealth.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u225	Are there any further questions? Mr. Senator Bonisławski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u226	Mr. Marshal, thank you. I have a question I asked yesterday. It concerns this date on 8 November 1917. This is the date of the October Revolution, and we're writing here about war crimes. I think it should, however, be, even though yesterday I got an answer, that witnesses of events are dead, expand it and write it down, for example, that since July 24, 1914... Because otherwise we ignore what was very tragic in Poland. And the world war, today just as discussed, has brought great losses. I can speak from the point of view of the Łódź region, from where 200,000 people sent to work and so on... There are memories of these people. Even today I found out that others were discovered. Those were tragic moments. I don't think there's anything stopping us from saying that, on November 8, 1917, the IPN broke up and moved three years... [[Mr. Senator, is this an amendment proposal or a question?]] Do you have any... [[Because like an amendment, it's in a different mode.]] It's the amendment that we're gonna do-- it's up to you to answer it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u227	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u228	Mr. Senator, I absolutely agree with you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u229	The answer was given. Are there any more questions? No further questions. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] This project was submitted by Members. There is a representative of the government, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Mrs Magdalena Gawin. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Minister, your question is, do you wish to speak? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u230	Yes, thank you very much. Maybe I'll say good evening at first, because it's pretty late. I listened to this debate, and I was also at the Senate Culture Committee meeting yesterday. I know that not all the senators were present at this committee meeting, so I would like to start with the most important issue. This is a parliamentary project, while the Ministry of Culture approaches it with great approval. We believe that this is a necessary institution and, above all, the very idea is important. And I would like to thank the senator for making such a substantive reference to what we have in mind. Most of the attention is focused mainly on 2 issues: the question of time and the question of budget, money. In fact, this institution is criticized mainly because of the fast vocation time and mythical already 75 million PLN. Dear Senators, I would like to say that this 75 million PLN is not a year, it is a research institute. This amount shall be transferred to the following years. It is for a long time the functioning of this institute. It is a very convenient formula, which, for example. is not possible in any cultural institution. In cultural institutions, the financial year shall apply, at the research institute No, no, no, no, That's the first line. Dear Senators, if it were really so that the rush was to determine whether the institution that is being created was called for noble purposes and whether it would function well, then all as one husband would have to criticize the Museum of the Warsaw Uprising for its haste. I will remind you: The Warsaw Uprising Museum was established in a year. Sometimes this haste is simply caused by the fact that we have to do certain things smoothly, quickly and for the good of all of us. The question that you asked very often and which you asked was to double your tasks. I've already said it for the fourth time, but today I'm going to say it again. Ladies and gentlemen, neither the state archives nor the Institute of National Remembrance nor the Historical Institute of the University of Warsaw nor the Institute of History of the Polish Academy of Sciences absolutely do not deal with these tasks. Absolutely! Poland has 37 million people. It's not a small country, it's not a country that has eight million or ten million. And really asking questions why everyone should not be taken care of by the Institute of National Remembrance is pointless. I specifically looked for you on the Internet and in my notes, how many German institutions are involved in memory policy. German historical institutes: Warsaw, Rome, Paris, London, Washington, Moscow. Place of Remembrance and Historical Education The House of the Conference in Wannsee, Topography of Terror, Memorial of the German Resistance, Centre for Culture and Documentation of German Sinti and Roma, German Historical Museum, Visible Mark, Foundation, Escape, Escape, Reconciliation, Gauck Institute, now Federal Office for Foreign Affairs. The Stasi Act, the Federal Foundation for Research on the Dictatorship of the Socialist Party of Unity, the Berlin Mur Foundation, the Berlin-Hohenschönhausen National Remembrance Site, the German Remembrance Site, the Allied Museum in Berlin, etc. I didn't even count the museums... I didn't include museums in Martyrological sites either. I've already explained that we can't drop tasks on state archives. The state archives were not co-financed for at least the last decade, if not longer. The New Act Archive is not now able to accept new files, state archives the same. After all, these are archives that have to accept personal-paying files, in other words, miles of files arrive each year. For central archives, i.e. mainly for the Archives of New Acts, neither a new building nor warehouses were built. And there are ninety people working in the New Act Archives, and they can't be added to any tasks. I've known these archives for two years, and I've known them before and as a researcher, because I've been sitting in them and working. As far as the Institute of National Remembrance is concerned, I think it's a very bad idea to add further tasks to an institution that is already large. We can't do this because we're going to create a very inefficient institution that's going to have too many tasks. And now an extremely important issue that you have raised, Senator Pociej. Why archives? Why are they here and there? And how does that even look? Then I'll say it again. The situation with archives in Poland looks like this. The archives of the Institute of National Remembrance took over mainly the archives, partly, from the Archives of New Acts. Papers of the Main Commission for the Investigation of Hitler's Crimes It also took over a whole team of archives from local security offices. It's all in the Archives of the Institute of National Remembrance. A completely different type of archives has the New Act Archives. But both the archives suffer from a basic lack, because from 1956 to 1997 and the Polish People's Republics, and unfortunately, already free and independent People's Republics gave archives to Germany. This is the last time we gave them up in 1997. The chief director of the State Archives has deleted the German security archives from the national archive, although the law states that all files produced and relating to the occupied country belong to this country. We have huge holes we've never completed. And here I agree with the senator who emphasized that the Institute of National Remembrance was created mainly to describe the Polish People's Republic and study the history of communism, and therefore did not go back to the years of war, and did not complete these deficiencies. They're really big, and I could talk about it for a long time, because it's about the files of investigations, trials, photos, albums. Unfortunately, that's what it looked like. So first of all, we need to complement this archival resource and I can say that we are definitely not going to duplicate this archival resource. There's something else I wanted to say about the archives. I'll be right back. We were also asked what are the criteria for awarding decorations, and I see that the senator has left. Virtus et Fraternitas, the East Cross and the West Cross. The Eastern Cross and the Western Cross are to be granted to foreigners, and the citizens of Poland are also to be granted to Virtus et Fraternitas. And here begins the whole very interesting discussion about criteria that apply in other countries. The most famous country that rewards for saving its own citizens is, of course, Israel. Their bill in many cases precludes the award not because they recognize that someone was not rescued, but simply because there are certain criteria that immediately push off a certain group of people. Let me give this example: if a family member rescued a member of his family who had Jewish origin and the person who rescued did not have Jewish origin, then the Yad Vashem Institute does not give a distinction in this situation, because the formula was adopted that those related would not be marked. Nor does the Yad Vashem Institute honour our certificates submitted to the General Commission for the Investigation of Hitler's Crimes, that is, interrogations before the prosecutor or before the judge. For us, they have the force in force, moreover, they have the power in force throughout Europe. It should simply be assumed that such criteria exist. I think we shouldn't argue and argue unnecessary disputes with Yad Vashem because they accepted such criteria. We can take the others. I know what else I wanted to say about the archives. So I wanted to say that the UN archives were declassified in April 2017. In these undisclosed UN archives, a huge component concerns issues related to Poland: concentration camps in Treblinka, the Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp, correspondence with the London Government, the act of counterintelligence of the National Army, as well as assistance to Jews and Poles for Poles. These files are now available at the Wiener Library in London. This is a Jewish institution that simply obtained the UN's consent to release these files only in its own institution. We are already making efforts at the UN in New York to get similar permission for Poland. Believe me, these are for the first time declassified files that have been collected since 1942 and which in a large part concern Poland. The very idea of this institute is very much needed in Poland. Here again, I would like to thank you very warmly for this vote, because it is indeed so that very many people, including for example. Ukrainians in Volyn, saved Poles at risk of life, i.e. And there were those who lost their lives. And I'd like to remind you of two publications. This is very interesting, because one was written by a scientist at the Institute of National Remembrance, and the other was written by a former journalist, columnist and reporter of the Gazeta Wyborcza. And this is the very interesting moment, when basically 2 fairly conflicted parties agree, i.e. both authors say that the Polish state does not see the dimension of saving Poles by foreigners and all the consequences involved. So we should do this, but we cannot limit our policy towards Ukraine to condemn the Bandera, because it is simply not enough. They need to be offered a positive pattern. There were questions about the attorney. The proxy shall be appointed by the Minister, and then, after 3 months, may be appointed p.o. The director or the director. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe I have answered most of the questions. If I've missed one, I'm really sorry. I would like to reassure everyone and stress once again that it will be a scientific institution, reliable, serving Poland and Poles very well. It is an initiative of the Members of the Polish Parliament, but it will serve the whole of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Stay by the speaker, Minister, or there may be questions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u231	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Who among your senators would like to ask a question? Senator Comfort, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u232	Minister, you began your statement by saying that the archives have not been co-financed for at least a decade. I'd like to get warmed up and find out what you've done over the last two years to finance these archives.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u233	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u234	Mr President, thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I'll answer right away. As soon as I came to the ministry I'm a history professor. I immediately forced a raise for the archivists. This was my first action, which I am extremely happy about, because these are educated people, after their PhDs, who earn 2,000 200. We can't keep people on so low wages because they don't have the motivation to work, just in the world. And now that we're dealing with all these political disputes and talking about compensation, it turns out the archives are important. Because they are, but we, even in these central archives, can't sort out historical archives, because there are personal-paying files that we have to take over. And the archives are just completely collapsed. Next, we decided that we would build on a plot that is already owned by the Supreme Directorate of State Archives, a building for the National Digital Archives and for the Archives of New Acts, because they simply do not fit, and warehouses, because the warehouses are few, are under Warsaw and there is a huge problem with that. Thank you. [[Can I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u235	You're asking the senator... Is that gonna be a new question? [[No, I want to ask.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u236	Since you've started this kind of thing, and the argument behind this new unit's creation is that there's something out of place in the archives, I don't really understand... Because either the argument is wrong, or the state, for a completely different reason, is creating this unit. You said at first that it was because the archives were bursting at the seams. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: Yes.]] On my question, why didn't you finance them, Minister said: well, that's what we're doing, we've given raises, we've bought a share... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: The plot was.]] There was a plot... And you will build there. Then what's the institute for?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u237	Make it up, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u238	Good. Mr. Senator, I really want to make this very clear. The State Archives have their own historical component, which serves historians for scientific work, for various activities, but in addition, under the law, they are obliged to take over the personal-paying act. In other words, if a company fails, the entire archive created by this company must be taken over by the State Archives. The situation is so bad... I applied to Minister Gliński and asked him to... We are now preparing a report on the state of the archives, which will be presented to the Council of Ministers. The situation is so bad that the Polish-German Reconciliation Foundation, which created in the 1990s in connection with the compensations of a huge archive and really very interesting, because in the 1990s there were still people who were being repressed... Even this archive hasn't been organized. They have a lot of tasks, lots of archive material. We are really doing everything we can to motivate our employees and build new warehouses and new archival rooms.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u239	You're asking Senator Fedorovich a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u240	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, explain something to me. Senator rapporteur said there'd be 75 million every year. There was also talk of 150 million. So it turns out... Maybe it was a slip of the tongue. You said it was 75 million and that it would be spread over time. Will there be 150 million next year? Explain this to the senators.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u241	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u242	As I said, research institutes have the privilege that the budget that is earmarked for their operation can go on for years to come. [[Good.]] And that's the comfortable situation we have in this case. [[But next year...]] No. I'm telling you right away, no. [[Exactly. That one over there...]] Mr. Senator, I'd really like to see that happen, but that's not possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u243	The question is, Senator Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u244	Minister, I'd like to ask you about the date. Senator Ryszka was a little bit caught up in this, but we didn't get an answer. It is about 8 November 1917. Why don't you... We're talking war crimes. If during World War I Poles suffered comparable losses, both human and material, to the losses of World War II, why do you not want to take into account here also what happened during World War I? After all, the scale of damage and pain was comparable.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u245	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u246	Thank you very much. I will point out that there is a huge difference between World War I and World War II. World War II was the result of two totalitarian states, regimes. And although the Great War is important for Western Europe, it is difficult for us to compare the First World War in Poland with the Second War. They're completely inconvenient in terms of numbers, including the number of victims. I do not question that World War I was a trauma, that it was something that affected Poland, the Polish economy and infrastructure, and most of all people. The point here is that, basically, in all laws, dates are contractual and disputed. Always. They always have some controversy. For a good cause, I could ask a similar question: why should we not talk about Poles or people of other nationalities helping us in the January uprising? We can go back any way we want. Right? [[I wanted to ask that question later.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Here we are more concerned with marking the 20th century from the moment of totalitarianism. That's a line. The time of World War I was basically the beginning. There was a Bolshevik revolution, there was a Polish-Bolshevik war. This totalitarian component is something that is a criterion here. That's how I understand it. But, as I stress, dates are always an issue. This law involved a certain convergence with the dates that are included in the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance. There's no way out, I'd say.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u247	The next question you ask is Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u248	Minister, this is not the time or place for us to argue. I'm just going to the archives you're talking about... It seems to me that you are wrong and that the Polish losses during World War I have read a few rather obsessive studies on this subject were much bigger in some sectors. If in turn you say... Even if I did accept, and I do not accept, your reasoning, or belief that the First War does not belong to the Second War... [[Mr. Senator, this is polemic. Ask me a question. Or sign up for a discussion.]] Well, I still don't understand why it's supposed to include two years of World War I. [[Voice from the room: Since the revolution...]] Because since the revolution... I understand that since the revolution, but it was also World War I and those times. My question is this. On the sixth, maybe we'll even pass on what's here. Depending on whether there are any amendments or not... Well, Senator Ryszka once again honestly said that we wouldn't correct anything, even if there was some obvious stupidity in this bill, because we have to make time... [[I didn't say that.]] ...that it doesn't matter, but we have to make it. But you said the most important thing is to start nicely and start quickly. And you were talking about the museum of the uprising that it could be done in a year. What do you want to do? Tell me about it. For the 75 million for Christmas, for 10 days?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u249	Mr Senator, the procedure for setting up an institution is that not the Minister, but the representative or director shall present an annual action plan and all the objectives to be achieved by that institution. And that's always the way it is. [[Senator Alexander Pociej: Until the end of the year?]] Yes... Not until the end of the year, because we are talking about 2018. This year we really need to appoint a proxy, do the simplest things, purely technical things, and next year we will have to develop such a plan. I'll say this: I'm sure this institution, as I see it... I would also like to say that I founded Pilecki's center, which has made one of the most modern archives in the world for a year and a half. And I'm saying it here without exaggeration. And which, above all, prescribes and places on the Internet translated into English Polish certificates, Poles submitted before the Main Commission for the Investigation of Hitler Crimes and certificates from the Hoover Institute. And I'm rather a proponent of the fact that if we're already assuming something, then we should act quickly, energetically, then we shouldn't drag it out in time. I don't see anything wrong in quick action, especially since I see the activities of this new institution, i.e. I see more or less the departments that should be, and what we should start with. But really now is not the time for me to talk in detail about the programme of this institution for the whole year.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u250	You're asking Senator Fedorovich a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u251	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, well, I, as you know, have been in this so-called for eight years. a group holding power. [[And nothing else.]] Normally, the minister prepared a work plan every year, as needed. And we, Members or Senators, accompanied him in this and advised him because of our knowledge. Then tell me: have you suddenly learned from these Members that you want this institute? Did you guys even plan this? Because if you planned this, this is some document: I, the Minister of Culture, intend to build a 4-year-old program, create the Institute of Solidarity and Passion of the Lord... and Fortitude... [[No, no. Oh, come on, let's not overreact.]] I'm so sorry. Yeah, and bravery. [[Come on, comedy.]] Well, what was it like? Did you suddenly get this on the table from Members who, as usual, don't have the tools to prepare it as super as the Ministry? I just want to know what the road is.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u252	Question asked. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u253	As far as this name is concerned, I was already talking about the fact that the names of this type of institution have a little more pathos. Yad Vashem is the official name of the Institute of Martyrs and Heroes of the Holocaust And that sounds pathetic, too. So I think this Institute... [[Sorry, I don't have a name.]] ...Solidarity and Fortitude... [[I don't have a name for it.]] But it was ironic not to say meanness. [[By accident.]] [[Mr. Senator, you weren't disturbed, so don't disturb me.]] I will say this: when Pilecki's center began to function, we did not at first have the entire historical component of these certificates recognized and just after a while we figured out how much we could do this every year. For 130 thousand certificates we can convert 4,000 a year, of which 2.5 thousand can be made in English. It's just very little. We therefore also wanted to set up an institution that would work closely with Pilecki's centre and which would speed up some work. Besides, please note that Pilecki's centre has a very small budget, for example, we could not. to call, I don't know, scholarships for Western scientists or other countries who could write books on the basis of this source component, which until recently was closed and unavailable in archives, because no foreign historian will read handwriting certificates. In a word, I think these two institutions can function well. This is a parliamentary initiative, it didn't look like the genesis was that someone put something down for me, only I think that if we had the chance to make this sealed VAT institution work well and work well, and which will still help Pilecki's centers e.g. in developing good scholarships, because we also want someone to write books based on our source texts... The fact that we have developed these sources to such a small extent is one thing, but the other is that we simply need to encourage scientists. I must say, Mr. Senator, that encouraging scientists and a scholarship offer is a proven way. [[I didn't ask that at all.]] So I'm just explaining... These two institutions will be in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. We also have a very good relationship with the Institute of National Remembrance, because we need this institute too, after all, there is this whole query. So I think this is a really good idea, a good idea, and all I can say is that we're gonna do everything we can to invite the senators...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u254	The question is, Senator Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u255	Madam Minister, I'm sure my law and justice colleagues will admit... I'm not particularly clingy, but you said something that froze me a little bit a second ago. You said before: I founded the Pilecki Institute. Now you're saying you're having trouble at this Pilecki Institute. That's what you said a second ago. That there wasn't any money left to do some research, so you made yourself an institute that would finance... I'm sorry, you just said that, I'm just saying what you just said. [[There was no mention of the institute anywhere.]] And you said that this institute would make it possible to cover some financial deficits at the Pilecki Institute. That's how I take your statement just now that there wasn't enough money, and there were some things you couldn't do. [[We're supposed to work together, not that we're short of money!]] And you didn't answer the question I asked at the same time: what do you want to do in two weeks for $75 million? You didn't answer that question. So, once again, was Mr. Ryszka's honest statement, which, in reporting, said it would be good not to waste the money that is there? [[End of question or...]] Yes, sir, thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u256	You're welcome to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u257	I can say that you listened to the senator, but you listened with bad will. [[But that's not the answer.]] Of course... [[Don't make any assessments, Minister, just answer the question or, if you don't want to...]] No, I just referred to this institution. I think we should pay attention to how we formulate our opinions and questions. I want to say this: this experience we have from Pilecki's center simply indicates that these tasks are extremely much. Pilecki's centre will also help this new institute in the sense that in these statements we have, there are also recorded cases, usually tragic, drastic, rescue, or rescue attempts, Poles or Jews. So I just wanted to say that these institutions can work together well, and that's the way it should be. The worst thing that can happen at the Ministry of Culture is to have institutions that compete with each other or operate completely contrary to each other. This lack of harmony between institutions is very bad, very bad. I will say this, as Deputy Minister of Culture, as well as someone who has observed for more than 20 years the functioning of other research centres, foreign cultural institutions: the synergy that comes from the formation of different institutions is certainly better than building one huge institution that you are asking for. I don't mean to be mean, but let me remind you that the Civic Platform wanted to solve the Institute of National Remembrance, so here you are a little inconsistent. [[Mr. Marshal!]] [[But who's next?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u258	The question is... First you signed up for Senator Fedorovich, then you signed up for Senator Comfort. You're welcome, Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u259	First, I'd like to explain that I didn't make any lapsus because it never occurred to me. I was talking about it because I was thinking about the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fighting and Martyrdom. So if I was talking about the Institute of Solidarity and Martyrdom... I don't mind a name or a pathos that is necessary here. But we need to know... I understand what the Minister... I understand the argument that there is a need. But how do you imagine working together, e.g. With the Jewish Historical Institute? They have the scope of their actions, don't they? The Polin Museum... Are you gonna help each other, or is this gonna be... There is no mention of cooperation between these institutions in the Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u260	I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u261	But the bill doesn't have to specify the tasks of the institute at this level, because this cooperation is completely natural for me. As far as the Jewish Historical Institute is concerned, thank you for setting this example, because this cooperation will certainly take place in the future. She's already getting started because the Jewish Historical Institute... Unlike the Polish certificates, catalogued and prepared 8 thousand testimonies of Holocaust survivors, Polish citizens who survived the Holocaust. And those 8,000 testimonies are. They were even included in the UNESCO World Heritage List. It just shows that Pilecki's center simply needs to perform these tasks. We have 130,000 testimonies to prepare, but already this year we are starting to enter these Polish testimonies and from the Soviet occupation 1939-1941, and from the German occupation 1939-1945 into the World Memory List. I assume this cooperation will be good. I'm not hiding that all the heads of this facility are just my colleagues, because I'm a historian.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u262	The question is, Senator Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u263	Minister, I am one of the people who can withdraw from certain terms. If the word "institution" hurt you or your fellow senators... [[Yes.]] I'm sorry. [[Thank you.]] The difference is that we can at least do some of us, just as Senator Żaryn did last time to apologize if there's anything... [[But apologizing, it's insulting.]] I understand that I can expect the same with regard to questions formulated with bad will. But for the fourth time, the Minister has escaped my answer to a very simple and short question: what do you want to do in two weeks for 75 million? This is my fourth repeat, question. I would very much like to hear a specific answer to the question: what are you going to do in two weeks for $75 million? That's once. And two: just now the minister said that because there were some terrible temptations here, you want to have these archives scattered, that is, a couple of places, not everything put in. That's what you said. In a single institution. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: They are still in several.]] Yeah, but... [[Wait a minute, Mr. Senator will finish, and then you'll answer.]] But Senator Ryszka convinced us that that's why you're doing this to have all these documents in one place. And that is my second question: was Senator Ryszka wrong, or is the Minister wrong at the moment? And once again, I'm going back to what you're gonna do for $75 million in two weeks.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u264	Two questions, Minister. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u265	I'll try very briefly... Mr. Senator, I answered that question, but I think you left the room for a while. Maybe more... [[I'm sitting here and I'm not leaving. I'm sorry.]] But I gave that answer to Mr. Senator... [[Say it again, if you will. Or as you wish...]] Maybe I'll say it again. In the form of research institutes, it is possible for the budget allocated to the institution to pass from year to year. So it's for a long time, I don't know how long, but it's possible to move the unused amount to the next few years. In 2017, as much as we can do... We can appoint a proxy and, above all, we can do these basic, completely trivial research related to the physical establishment of this institution. Senator Ryszka was right. I think he spoke very well about the archives, but I don't know if... Mr. Senator, I can tell you more about these archives, but if you don't mind, I'll be brief. Senator Ryszka simply said that this must be an archive profiled for the type of activity. If this institution develops criteria on the basis of which awards can be awarded, then we must have a characteristic type of archive material which is not available in any of these other institutions. And that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u266	Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: Thank you very much.]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I present the following message: I would like to inform you that, after considering the current item, we will proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the law amending the Waste Act and some other laws. After considering this item, we will return to dealing with the items according to the agenda. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Pociej, who signed up first. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[You're a good lawyer. You're picking on words.]] Mr. Senator, Senator Comfort has a voice now. Don't argue.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u267	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Very briefly: I think it is a very bad idea that it is throwing away very big, serious money to finance an institution that will almost exactly replicate what the IPN is doing. I will absolutely vote against this institute because once again... Well, the next president will take the money, the next group of people will replicate the actions that are already being taken in the IPN. I don't get it at all. If that's the case, why didn't they just throw that money into the IPN? What's the point of all this money? Well, there's presidents, there's boards, there's buildings. For all this money will go, and these people will double, simultaneously doing the exact same work that the IPN does. Since my point of view will probably not be supported by the majority, I make one amendment. If we are to deal with this, then as a consequence of what I said about the First World War and what its effect was for Poles, I am talking about the whole First World War, and not just its sham, because here history begins with the October Revolution, and I would like to make such an amendment so that the time range starts from the beginning of the First World War. And that's the amendment I'm making. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u268	Thank you, Senator. The next speaker is Senator Fedorovich. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u269	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. Minister! High Senate! Well, actually, Senator Comforter said everything. I'm signing off on it. We'd like to make it work, at least once during this possible four-year term... However, we would like government laws to come to us, because the government law is naturally much more precisely prepared. Unfortunately, understanding the need for such an institution, I cannot resist the impression that it is done only to create another institution. It's always been me for so many years of our freedom that made me nervous. There have been periods of certain prosperity, and there have been twice in our field, or culture, but then institutions have not been able to sustain themselves as a result of some crisis. However, I believe that the funds could be allocated to the activities themselves, not to the appointment of successive directors, to other buildings and administrations. So that I'm not entirely convinced, Minister, I regret, because I understand intent. But the beginning of my speech was about a mode that just upsets me, because it's never very professional. Usually in such parliamentary or senatorial mode, part of the bill is the result I understand that they are, even though they should not be. Well, it's very hard for me to accept that I would vote for a bill that, in more than 10 points or 11 points, is corrected by our Legislative Office. So... Well, if it were all this, Minister, in a different mode, if it were all done three months ago, we wouldn't have had that problem. Well, my dear Vice-President Ryszka replied to that. We've known each other for years. That he doesn't feel uncomfortable. Well, but I'm uncomfortable, because if all this were going on in the normal way, the amendments would be accepted, then... what will Senator Ryszka, a member of the bureau of our committee do tomorrow? I am very curious, Mr President, because you yourself were in favour of this and you said to the minutes that you would support the amendment tabled by Senator Pociej. And if you'll back us up, we'll back us up, what'll happen? You'll have the discomfort I thought you'd miss. And that's what I regret. Therefore, Mr Marshal, please accept my amendments, which are made in writing. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u270	Thank you. You have a voice, Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u271	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! It seems to me that we are not so advanced in historical politics that would benefit us. The use of history in this political dispute is very visible. We're already arguing about, as it would seem until recently, obvious things. We need balance, because when we speak the truth, we build unity between ourselves and build friendship between us and other nations. When we emphasize one thing and forget the other, we either feel hurt ourselves, or others feel that this assessment is unfair. And then there's no unity, then there's divisions. So to be honest, I was very surprised. 'Cause I didn't know that. The idea is to finally start showing those who helped Poles. I'm going to repeat what I said in the question: it's really missing. As the Poles differed from those who were heroes, by those who supported heroes, or who were passive or intimidated, to those who were criminals. And so it was with other nations. During the test hours We don't all pass the exam, and that's why it seems to me that those who pass the exam, regardless of nationality, are worth it and need to be shown. So this whole directory of tasks, which has been written here, seems to me to be extremely needed also because we also today And I guess that's what I'm saying from the perspective of a mature man's years, we're facing some tasks, some challenges, and we're going to pass the test. And we either pass it or we don't. I'm thinking that today, when we talk about immigrants, we don't necessarily pass this test because maybe we don't realize it or we don't think about it very often. It was that we were heroes and helped, and it was that we needed this help very much in the country and were being helped. If we showed this in an attractive form, perhaps we could overcome these fears, otherwise justified. Similarly, in relations with other nations, even Ukrainians and even Jews, if we showed the other side of the coin, it would probably be easier to talk about the Volyn slaughter, because the evaluation would be closer to the truth, and then reconciliation would be much easier. So the thought somewhere in this bill is not evil, it has its advantages. We're arguing about something else. Whether it's a good formula, whether you really need a new institute, new buildings, new rooms, or if you can't rely on what already exists, possibly expand something or add new tools to someone. Especially since the Institute of National Remembrance, which has been cited so many times today, has had very numerous and positive experiences, which we have talked about here, for example in the field of popularization of some themes of Polish history, those so far most Poles unknown. I personally do. There's my experience of creating a lot of laws here in Parliament. The last thing we need to do is create new institutions. Minister, this is the last thing. You need the money you talked about, you need the creation of these archives, you need to commemorate it all. And it takes millions to keep them alive... Because it's important, too. However, I am not entirely convinced that this institute is needed. I don't think so. It would have been the same or more, probably better, probably faster, and certainly much more secret, if it had been done by an institution that has already had a lot of experience and has worked out. You mentioned that my group has often spoken of the Institute of National Remembrance to cease to exist. And you know why, I think? Also because there was no other leg, there was no other action to be initiated now. If this were blocked, it would certainly be easier to talk about the future of this institution. [[No...]] The senator here denies... Well, we're entitled to different opinions, and it's beautiful. Right? So, as far as intent is concerned, I absolutely think... The moment's even good. It is high time to show that we were in need, that we were helped, and that we have a debt that we should repay to those who are in need today and who are turning to us.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u272	Thank you, Senator. Senator Frost will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u273	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! I wasn't going to speak at that point, but after my colleague's speech... Well, you inspired me. And I'm gonna say, perversely, that it's worth having this debate, because that's how you praised the Institute of National Remembrance and said how good it is to have an institution that was nice. You're the one who's gonna listen to this. All the more so, Mr Senator, if I am not mistaken, in your new programme, Mr Grzegorz Schetyn, as the key to this programme, entered the liquidation of the IPN, just the liquidation of the IPN. And he didn't say anything about the shortcomings in the activities of the IPN, he just criticized this institution as an unnecessary and evil thing. Indeed, for 8 years you have been able to correct this IPN, you have been able to take care of historical policy, you have also been able to take care of some commemoration, appreciation of various historical events, people, our very rich history, but somehow you have not done so yet, although it so happens that both the former President and the former Prime Minister by education were, as I recall, historians. Yes? And when we want to introduce new institutions today, we want to allocate funds to this culture and our history... Today, Mr President and I have inaugurated the celebration of the century of independence. And you're criticizing this kind of thing today just to criticize it a little bit. However, we will, of course, be very much in favour of this because we believe that such institutions and such honoring of events and people are needed, because it builds a certain community, a national community, and let us not be afraid to talk about it too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u274	Thank you. Let me inform you that the list of speakers has been... [[I've got five more minutes. I volunteered, but the secretary didn't have time to sign me up...]] Please, Mr. Senator. [[I'll only talk for 30 seconds...]] Speak, not announce. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u275	Mr. Marshal, thank you. Mr. Senator, where are you? [[Here.]] Oh, there you are. Hello, sir. Yes, I was responsible in the previous power, among others. We didn't touch on any IPN-related issues at all. Was the head of the IPN appointed and whether he was looking to the right or to the left... We weren't interfering. We didn't appoint people, and we didn't take others off, whether we liked them or not. We didn't like a lot of things, but we didn't make any changes like that because we have rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u276	Thank you. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Pociej and Senator Fedorowicz. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the legislative proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: No.]] Thank you, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Culture and Communications to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the Law amending the Waste Act and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 671 and the report of the Commission In print No 671 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Alicia Zając, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u277	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on the Environment, a report on the meeting of the committee held yesterday, 4 December 2017. We have tried to amend the Waste Act and some other laws. This law, which was adopted by the Sejm at its meeting on 24 November, was 422 votes in favour, there were no votes against, 5 abstentions. Our committee accepted 4 amendments in print No 671 A. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 after point 4, point 4a of point 4 is inserted. a, b, c, after point 19 is inserted point 19a and after Article. 4. the following Article shall be inserted: 4a. I don't read the text because it's all in the document, in print No. 670 A. The amendments were voted in favour of 7 senators of the joint committees, there were no votes against, 4 senators abstained, and 8 senators voted in favour of the bill, there were no votes against, 1 senator abstained. Our discussion... Maybe I'll be brief. The Act results from the transposition of Union law into Polish law, from the provisions of Commission Directive No 1127 of 2015 amending Annex II to Directive 2008/98/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on waste and repealing certain Directives, from Commission Regulation No 1357/2014 of 18 December 2014 replacing Annex III to Directive 2008/98/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on waste and repealing certain Directives, from Regulation 2017/997 of the Council of the European Union of 8 June 2017 amending Annex III to Directive 2008/98/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the hazardous property of HP 14 The discussion at the committee meeting focused mainly on the so-called. BDO, a database on products and packaging and waste management. The speakers raised such matters whether there would be availability or whether this base would function well. Mr Mazurek, present at the committee meeting, assured us that we are entering the period of digitization of the State, so all newly introduced systems must be innovative. It's been accepted. Perhaps I will also say that reporting for the years 2017 and 2018 will be carried out in accordance with these principles, and then it will be carried out in accordance with the provisions of this Act. As of 1 January 2020, waste records will start to function taking into account forms completed via BDO. So it's time to introduce these rules. I am talking about this because there have been concerns about whether companies are prepared for this change. I think that we are moving towards modernity, it is the 21st century, so we need to adopt these changes, especially since not adopting EU rules later results in penalties, which we often face. On behalf of the Joint Committees, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on the Environment, I would like to ask the High House to adopt a proposed draft resolution, namely a law amending the Waste Act and some other laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u278	Thank you. At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Do any of you senators want to ask such a question? If not, thank you. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for the Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Mr. Sławomir Mazurek. Would the Minister like to take the floor and present the position of the government? Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u279	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Senator Zając has presented the course of our committee meeting, which concerned the project in a very reliable and accurate manner, and all these key elements have been included. I would still like to show this European theme Please indicate what acts we are amending, even though they have already been mentioned. So I will just try to say that this amendment to the law is very important precisely because of the implementation of European Union legislation, the introduction of this into our legislation. At the same time, a waste database is very important, which will allow us to effectively fight the grey zone, with pathologies in waste management. But we also need to look at it so that it allows entrepreneurs and local governments to conduct waste management policies efficiently so that these pathologies do not exist. We're not giving up the bulk of the waste transfer cards. Ladies and gentlemen, some cards were only completed after a month. And an entrepreneur or a transporter is not obliged to present such a card. So how can we talk about effective control of this type of activity? At the same time, what is the competitive advantage of entrepreneurs who act honestly in this area? The base will be made by agile method. Already since 2018, since January, you will be able to register in the database. Further modules will be added. In fact, it is not until 2019 that we will report. The year 2020 is where we will achieve the full operationality of the base. It is also about giving time to prepare and entrepreneurs and local governments. Such questions also arose: how will expensive equipment have to be bought by an entrepreneur? Will this affect the residents' bills? Ladies and gentlemen, we want to cut this base so that it is possible to use... Just as the computer tycoons do, who create certain platforms that we all use, so will full access here. There are enough tablets or mobile phones, most of which are smartphones today... Such a device is enough to use this base to make it possible to log in so that you can generate QR code, which is this special code that allows us to access specific IT resources. Of course, I am also a member of the Committee of the Council of Ministers for Digitalization, so we will take further steps closely with the Ministry of Digitalization so that this base is precisely consistent with the entire system of digitization of the state, so that it is widely available and fully functional. Especially for me, it's important. And that determination will certainly not run out. To make it an effective tool not only for the Environmental Protection Inspections, but also for other authorities, including law enforcement authorities, Road Transport Inspections and other services, in the fight against pathology. But I also hope that it will make it possible for all those who work daily in this sector to act effectively. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u280	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u281	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I forgot to ask at the committee's meeting: will the Environmental Protection Inspection get additional funds? Because we know that a while ago I can't remember exactly when In part, inspection measures have been taken over and transferred to other environmental objectives. Will the Environmental Protection Inspection now receive any measures as part of the new changes?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u282	Thank you very much. This base will be established in the Ministry of Environment, it will be a tool for the Environmental Protection Inspection. The truth is that at one stage of the inspection 500 thousand zlotys were collected, even during the previous coalition, from such... It's for the payroll fund. This is a problem that the inspection is facing on a daily basis, but at the same time the inspection is not passive. Last week we signed an agreement with the National Environmental Fund for educational activities, including for the Environmental Protection Inspections. It is a project for 6 million PLN. That'll strengthen the inspection, too. But we will certainly be working in this area to strengthen inspection and competence, and structurally. I hope that these changes will also be followed by measures in the new budgetary perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u283	Thank you very much. I don't see any more questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Sławomir Mazurek: Thank you very much, Mrs Marshal.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. I inform you that the vote on the bill will be held tomorrow morning at 9:00 a.m. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on certain powers of servants of the office serving the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and officials and servants of the offices supervised by that Minister and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 654, and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 654 A and 654 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to present a report to the committee. [[He's not here. He was, but he went... there he is, he's coming in.]] You're Senator Krzysztof Frost. Mr. Senator, I'd like to invite you to the stand and I'd like you to submit a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u284	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Act amending the Act on certain powers of servants of the office serving the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and officials and servants of the offices supervised by that Minister and certain other laws... It was a government bill. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration assessed this project on 29 November 2017. The Commission recommends that the High Senate adopt this law without amendment. The purpose of this law is to appoint an internal surveillance inspector and an Internal Surveillance Office to assist him. Well, in general, it strengthens the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, giving him specific powers, among others. he will be able to familiarise himself with the results of the internal surveillance operations carried out by the inspector. The entire office and the inspector will be directly subordinate to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. The Act sets out the rules for the secondment of service officers, as the internal surveillance inspector will supervise all services that are under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, i.e.: the Police, the Fire Department, the Border Guard and the Government Protection Office. Several other changes are being made in this area, among others. The former Bureau of Internal Affairs of the Police Headquarters, which is subject to the Chief... It will now be directly under the responsibility of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. Generally speaking, it is about strengthening some kind of supervision of these matters of internal proceedings, disciplinary proceedings in the services under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. To this draft law, the Senate Legislative Office submitted a lot of comments There were 20 of them. All comments are of a legislative nature. At the meeting of the committee, Deputy Minister Jarosław Zieliński and representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs disagreed with the comments proposed by the Legislative Bureau. Well, that's a different look at the same things. The Legal Bureau's comments are very different and, as I said, there are 20 of them. They come out... they result from such a very strong assumption that this bill is unconstitutional. And that is the proof, in the light of the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, that even the procedure for changing the name of the law raises concerns of the legislator. There is also a point here that we are talking about amending the law. This bill is very substantial. The legislator pointed out that such a major change should not take place by amending the existing law, but should be done in the form of a new law. The lawyers of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration had a different position and stressed that the law had been accepted by the Legal Office of the Sejm. The bill was adopted without amendment. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration requests that it be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u285	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u286	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Commission has decided to adopt the law without amendment. In view of the very exhausting discussion of the bill by my previous speaker, I see no need to repeat what he said. As I recall, the amendments proposed by the legislators were taken over by Senator Rulewski. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u287	Thank you very much. I ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u288	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The minority proposal was not dictated by the need to interfere with the authority or even the privileges of the Minister to organise and improve his structures. That's how the Minister put it. But it was based on the belief that if such a rich law is to enter into force, and in a fairly short time, then it is necessary to maintain integrity. The conditions of reliability, according to the Legislative Bureau, were not fully fulfilled. First of all, there is an inconsistency between the two laws that are currently in the legal system in Parliament. There is one issue, so-called. Awards for the whistleblower. In the Income Tax Act, the government to which it belongs among others. Minister present in this Chamber, he proposed a solution, adopted almost in accordance with two chambers... The bill didn't come into force. This is foreseen for January 1. This is the date of entry into force of the Act, which assumed that the award would be paid to the signaler. The Minister's proposal for the operation of the Police's Internal Affairs Office is a different solution, a more extensive one, which grants such an award, but is to be taxed, as I read, at a 20% tax rate. It's not there, and here it is. Previously, it was a lump sum. We accepted the proposal of the Legislative Office with a certain amount of trust, not only, but also reason. Where a single author, or government, issues two such acts, it is advisable that those acts have a uniform sound if they concern the same person and the same object. It's about the signaler who's about to receive the award. To be honest, my experience so far, but not just mine, indicates that the provisions on such awards should be included in financial law, in the Tax Act, which contains a number of exclusions indicating which prizes and benefits are not subject to tax. I ignore the fact that if this signaler is to act within some discretion, then this discretion, Minister, will certainly be narrowed down to transparency. That's not what this is about. These are operations, and it's hard to expect them to... I don't think the police are interested in exposing this public opinion, including tax officials. That's the first line. The second point is that it is assumed that in the services of the ministers, officers should investigate the property benefits. Let's be honest: bribes Which someone gives and which officer can accept. In the meantime, there's an incoherence here. In one provision concerning the Border Guard, this action is included in such a way that officers will be subject, I would say, to surveillance to determine whether they accept or benefit, and in the case of officers of this office this is included unilaterally. If I remember correctly, it will only be examined if these officers give bribes... or if they receive bribes. I'm sorry for my insecurity. In fact, we point out in the minority proposal that there should be consistent rules within the services that are subordinate to the Minister, the Border Guard and the Police. There is also the question of the right hierarchy, e.g. as regards the awards to the officers of this newly created office. The Legal Office says there should be a rule that says... The Minister defends this position that this is a rank that... And there should be a rule that if this office is to be subordinate to the chief, then the chief should apply for prizes, not the minister above the chief's head. That, of course, causes... Yeah, I'll tell you what's causing this, but I'm gonna suspend this speech and tell you about the other amendments. Several amendments, Minister, are stylistic and no one has complained about it. Other editorials indicate what's already happened in the Sejm. I think in three passuses, articles or points there are reservations, only that there are no reservations, so this word is unnecessary. Let's say this is an amendment. It's not material, it's editorial. This may raise doubts to readers, readers of this law, about what concerns are raised here. Well, no objections, because there are no objections. Let's add that there are probably five stylistic amendments, and there are three editorial amendments. And that's where the political question comes in. Minister, first reading in committee Of course, there was only one reading, but it took place at two meetings, because the work was interrupted, it was astonished, because the Ministry did not accept such obvious amendments first, but later expressed its willingness to cooperate. After returning, after a few hours or a few days, the Ministry expressed its determination to reject these amendments and categorically requested that this law be adopted without amendment. This may go too far beyond the minority report, but I must ask you why such pressure is being put on the coalition senators, who have given up doubt and taken a firm stand. We did not give in to this because, I repeat, we want to be good, reliable helpers, which applies not so much to the Minister but to this law, which was not subject to any rejection requests. That's what I'm paying attention to. Well, I think there may be three reasons. The first one is the easiest. It's ambitious. The Ministry believes that if it has already spent something, it is not subject to any verification, such as logical, orderly or stylistic. The second is the question of why Parliament should suffer from government riots. It's probably in the government. - It's The ministers are declaring Nobody's sure of anything, and that's why everyone wants to empty their desk before the end of the year, stretch out in front of the former Prime Minister or the new Prime Minister, and report back on the job done. It's the right thing to do, but on the side of Ujazdowskiego Avenue. We MPs shouldn't be tied up. These are, I'd say, ambitions. The minister wants to report, we don't know who, and you probably don't know who he did his job to either. Third cause. That may be the farthest conclusion I've ever made. This law is not merely ordering, it is not merely the desire for the Minister to have an overview of the situation, of what is happening in his subordinate units for which he is responsible politically and as a civil servant of the State. It seems to me that this law is another element of building your fear. This time, the narrative of fear is directed not only towards the citizens, but also towards all the officers whom the Minister has mentioned in the last 2 years as a hack shop. I think that's the philosophy of fear. A new office is to be created to serve as the Great Brother, who looks the public in his pocket, in his eyes or even in media and online records. There's also a fear that maybe these hostile forces have invaded the community of police officers. It is so dangerous that there is a principle of trust in building a democratic state. An officer, such as a police officer or even a newly appointed official, must have a certain identity, a certain ethos of the service, not be controlled by the provisions of the bill, previewed by the Minister, and that is, without the intermediary of his direct superior, the commander. We know that. I saw it, Minister, during the summer demonstrations. Friendly citizens directed towards officers performing their routine activities flowers and wishes. Very rare There's words of aggression. On the other hand, there were people, I would say, about the Frankenstein stature, trained and frightened by the fact that they can't smile, they can't show... For example, Senator Crow, who I'm directing critical voices to, doesn't have any hostility towards me. He listens, sometimes he comments. And those people were from a different story, like the young people said today. They were kind of trained not to be fraternized with other people, just like them, just standing on the other side of the barricades that you raised again, Minister, maybe even in front of your constituents. This bill serves, ugly word, division, building barriers, building an iron curtain. The next step will be to put on policemen or citizens of iron masks. Thank you very much. [[Thank you, Senator...]] Therefore, Mrs Marshal, I support the minority's request for these amendments to be recognised by the High House and adopted with good will to support the Ministry's legislative action.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u289	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Piotr Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u290	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for the rapporteur, Senator Mr. Mr. Frost. Because this is a government project, which, of course, we are very happy about, because we don't often deal with government projects, I would like to... It is known that the government project is subject to consultation, agreement. I would like to know, Mr. Senator, what was the opinion on this bill when it comes to the social side, trade unions. Was this discussed at the committee meeting? If so, then... Of course, that wasn't required, because as a government project... I would like to know what the opinions of the social factor, trade unions on this law were.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u291	Thank you very much. Are there any more... [[I'd ask you again...]] Please, Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u292	Thank you very much, Marshal. I, too, would like to ask Senator Mr. Frost a question. Mr. Senator, I have one more specific question and one more general question. First, the inspector of internal surveillance. My question is, is this gonna be an officer of one of the services, or is this gonna be civilian surveillance? And will he be directly subject to the Minister responsible for Home Affairs? That's one question. Second question. How big is it gonna be for Internal Affairs? Have you talked about how many jobs this is going to be? And one more thing. Was the financial consequences of its entry into force also examined during the drafting of this law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u293	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? [[...next question.]] Well, there you go, and then I'll ask for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u294	Good. Using the fact that you're Senator Frost, maybe... You said, Mr. Senator, that when it comes to these internal affairs offices that are in the Police, the Border Guard, they will also be subject to internal surveillance. There's still that chief over there, so I have a question as to whether it is, or... Because if it was, it would double with what's in the police now, the border guard, so creating the functions of this inspector and his entire office... That would double. So I have a question as to whether it was a slip of the tongue or whether, in fact, these police offices, the Guards will also be directly subject to this inspector of the Home Affairs Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u295	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u296	As far as I'm concerned... At the meeting of the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration I don't know how it was with a friend of mine, 99%. The issue of these amendments has been addressed by the time the bill is being discussed, and this discussion between the Minister and the legislator was followed by the senators, the two senators, Senator Rotnicka and, if I am not mistaken, Senator Grabowski. So that's what 90% was about. discussion, these amendments. We came out of this issue of the unconstitutionality of the law, which aroused an intense discussion, and it could be said that the discussion on the substance of the law was not somehow extended. There was only one thread raised, namely It's a little polemic to Senator Rulewski. The question of ethics and the assessment of police officers in terms of ethics. Senator Rulewski was talking about this trust, this ethics. It is this law that introduces this element of ethics and evaluation of police officers, not only police officers, all officers subordinate to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, in the field of ethics, not only laws, but also those ethical principles. This subject matter was raised. None of the senators raised the question that you asked Senator Florek, namely the question of these consultations, so I find it difficult to answer. I don't think Mr. Minister or any of the senators talked about it. Neither did anyone ask about the financial consequences of this bill. You're the minister, so you'll be able to ask him, I think. Yes, the internal surveillance inspector will be under the responsibility of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. I think the law generally strengthens this function. I remember how this unfortunate event happened in Wrocław, and then no one other than the media, many people, as well as the opposition, including the politicians of the Civic Platform, all resented the Minister that there were no specific actions, interventions. It was, among other things. because, in this respect, the minister's powers are kind of indirect. Former Internal Affairs Offices It's for Senator Rulewski. That function in all formations. The police's internal affairs offices also operate in German, French or American police. Of course, we would like everyone to be honest, including the police, but sometimes they are less honest or dishonest, and that is what this control mechanism is for. And it has nothing to do with this, Mr. Senator Rulewski, with some philosophy of wearing masks or building a philosophy of fear. I think you feel safe. Yes? This is to eliminate those who do not comply with the law from the service. And if the cops don't comply with the law, those who should be on his watch, it's extremely demoralizing. I believe that, of course, such inspection offices are needed in this respect. You can discuss how to fix them, how they should work. Here these functions are drawn from these services, they are given some kind of autonomy, because, as in every corporation, in every professional group If colleagues control their colleagues, there may be difficulties, especially since the service... In general, it is in all these services, but among police officers who are putting themselves at risk. We know this even from movies somewhere those colleagues who are supposed to control their colleagues... There are all kinds of connections. This service is difficult and specific. Therefore, this exclusion, the posting of employees, officers to this office, officers from these 4 services, i.e. the BOR, the police, the State Fire Department and the Border Guard, to the internal office, I think, is a good idea. And to that, if this office is directly subject to the Minister, they will have some kind of autonomy, once, and two, the minister who is politically responsible, will have direct access to all of this, to all documents, to certain operational activities. The point is not to let this minister get in the way... It doesn't matter who will be the minister personally, because the bill is preparing for many, many years. The point is that he should have some freedom. If he is to be responsible also in a political sense when something bad happens, then he must have certain instruments. Today, these instruments are probably imperfect, because the minister has an indirect influence, through chiefs of police or chiefs of individual services. Here there is a significant strengthening of the minister's powers. In my opinion, this is the right thing to do, but this is a matter for discussion. One's gonna love it, the other's not gonna like it. Let's see how this works in practice. I think that, in his experience, the Minister will be able to give some examples, more specifically, where such a philosophy comes from. I ran out of the report a little bit, because at our committee meeting, because it was the other committee that was working on it, we focused on these 20 amendments of the Legislative Bureau. Here there were indeed some differences of opinion between the Ministry and our Legislative Office on the reasonableness of introducing these amendments. And all these amendments concerned legislation itself, and they did not concern any such cases, so that I would say, substantive. The legislator stressed that she had no objections as to the substance of this bill. Well, she had reservations about some form of law enforcement, adoption, different records... I'm not a lawyer, so it's gonna be hard for me to give you an opinion on the technical regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u297	Thank you very much. Senator Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u298	Mr. Senator, I don't think you understand me or I didn't understand what you said. My point is that the Home Offices are in the Police and Border Guard, and these Home Offices remain. However, new internal surveillance offices are being created, where the head of which will be the internal surveillance inspector. And you said it before. Maybe I didn't get it right. That as regards these internal offices in the Police and Border Guard, they are subject to internal surveillance. I understand that there's a commandant in this office and they're under this commandant's authority, not the inspector's supervision, just like you said. Because if that were the case, then why would these offices be both, if both offices are doing the same thing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u299	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u300	Mr. Senator, I'm now looking into this bill... If I misspoke somewhere, maybe... But I think, in such a specific case, the Minister will certainly be a competent person to answer. I wouldn't want to... Well, I'd have to find it in the bill, and the bill's pretty extensive... I'm sure they'll be... well, I think Minister Zieliński, if that's his will, will answer competently.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u301	Thank you, Senator. Are there any more questions? Please, Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u302	I now have a question for you, Senator Silence, because his committee was the second committee to deal with it. Mr. Senator, was there an opinion on the draft social side of the trade unions at your committee meeting? Did you talk about it? And second question. Mr. Senator, you're a lawyer, and I'm talking about the principles of legislative technique. I have this bill in front of me, and I printed it out to myself, the one from 1996, and this bill is 2.5 pages. A new law which amends the title which introduces supervision, etc., is a law which has a total of 101 pages, of which 36 pages concern Article. 1, i.e. this supervision, and the rest of the parties concern amendments to other laws. Well, of course, as I have heard here, it was criticised at a committee meeting where it was said that when it comes to the principles of legislative technology, it is rather unacceptable, because this is a fundamental change. If 2.5 pages are replaced by 100 pages, we change the title, then something here is wrong. Isn't that supposed to be a new bill? Isn't this law a legal defect from the very beginning?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u303	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u304	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! Line one. As for the question of whether there was any consultation, it was not discussed. Senator said he was asking about trade unions, right? As I recall, it wasn't discussed. As far as the relationship between the volume of the 1996 Act and the new wording is concerned, you have quite rightly pointed out that it is such a proportion that the 1996 Act, in practical terms, has 4 substantive provisions, which originally had those provisions 12, but probably 8 have been repealed and this law introduces a whole range of additional legal solutions. And in fact, it is much, much more extensive in volume and content than what was in the previous law. Well, it can actually be discussed whether, in this situation, it was not more sensible to adopt a new law than to amend the existing law; but it is a technical issue, but it has no effect on the content of the law itself. What could I possibly postulate? Since there has been such a situation that there is indeed so much of these changes that they represent in number a multiple of the current content, the number of articles so far, I think it will be necessary to publish the text of the Unified Law, which I think will happen in the near future. This is a way of resolving the question of legibility of the law in the case of such a number of amendments made to the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u305	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senators of the rapporteurs? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Jarosław Zieliński is with us. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u306	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! It is difficult to say that I wish to speak, but maybe I should, because there are some important things to explain. Maybe I'll start from the beginning to restore some proper thinking about this bill and get back to its essence. The police, the Border Guard, the Government Protection Office or the State Fire Department, i.e. the services under the authority of the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and supervised by that Minister, must be supervised. They must be supervised in a realistic manner, not theoretically. And just prepared by the government and adopted by the Sejm will restore or establish Maybe it's better said. This real surveillance of uniformed services. In the Seym on the bill there was quite a long work, there were comprehensive discussions during the subcommittee meeting and then the committee. The whole legislative procedure was carried out under 3 readings. And this draft law in the Seym version was submitted to the High Senate. At the meetings of the two Senate committees, the senators did not submit any amendments to this draft amendment. The Senate's Legislative Office, as has already been mentioned, reported comments, and these proposed amendments have indeed been the focus of further discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, on 9 November 2017, the Sejm adopted a draft law amending the Act on certain powers of servants of the office serving the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and officials and servants of the offices supervised by that Minister and certain other laws. And this bill, this project is aimed at I would like to stress this once again. The implementation of the civil standard and the real supervision of uniformed public policy services. In the current state of law, the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, despite the formal sovereignty over these formations, has in fact significantly limited possibilities of autonomous, direct and effective testing of negative signals in these services. The need for mechanisms to strengthen the existing instruments of supervision of the Minister for Home Affairs also arises It is also worth noting and worth emphasising, because it is an important issue for all, important for citizens, from the statutory powers of these services, which provide for the possibility of significant interference in the rights and freedoms of citizens, as well as the performance of tasks that may cause corruption risks. That is why this supervision must be particularly well carried out, it must be realistic and effective. So that this is about creating mechanisms and an instrument for such supervision. The importance and importance of the solutions envisaged by the Act is due to the fact that this has been the first in many years, since the beginning of our democracy, a systematic approach to the issue of supervision by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of public policy services. This systemic approach will also provide practical tools for real supervisory impact, as well as the prevention of irregularities in areas that have not yet been subject to such measures. This includes, among others: on the implementation of operational and exploratory activities, investigations and disciplinary proceedings Or the recognition, prevention and detection of prosecutions of public crimes and tax offences committed, which unfortunately happens, by officials and employees of supervised services. Ladies and gentlemen! High Senate! The introduction of new instruments of supervision by the Minister was carried out on several levels, which resulted in a coherent system. First of all, the Act introduces appropriate arrangements for the powers of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. I use two terms interchangeably here, although it may be appropriate to use the wording of the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, but today it is the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. So I use these names interchangeably, although legally, when it comes to the law on guns, we should talk about the Minister responsible for home affairs. So that the law introduces an authority such as the inspector of internal surveillance and equips him with powers to effectively assist the Minister in the supervision of his subordinate services. The relevant provision of the Act states that the Minister will carry out his tasks within the scope of a defined law by means of an internal supervisory inspector and, of course, his office. One of the most important tasks of the inspector for internal surveillance will be to prevent, detect and detect intentional prosecutions of public crimes and tax offences committed by officials supervised by the Minister of Services and their employees. They are often called civilian workers, but at the last conference in the context of social dialogue they were suggested not to use this wording because it may be associated with civil service, and here we are talking about workers who are not officers in these services. So that it is about phenomena of an unambiguously negative nature that undermine public confidence in the institutions of the State and can be dangerous to democracy because of the competences of these services and their officers. The internal surveillance inspector will be required to present immediately the information and material obtained as a result of carrying out the tasks entrusted to him in accordance with the law, which may be relevant for the supervision exercised by the Minister of Uniform Forms. The Act also introduces appropriate changes at organisational level. The point is that the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration is expected to set up an Internal Surveillance Office with the help of which the Internal Surveillance Inspector will carry out his tasks. This office will be an organizational cell isolated for this purpose from the MMSWiA. It will not therefore constitute As was attempted here, which is completely unauthorised, a separate service will only be an internal organizational structure in the Ministry. And here is the most important answer to the question of why we are amending the law and not writing a new law. Well, we are still on the same page, i.e. in terms of the powers of the office by which the Minister of Home Affairs performs his tasks and the powers of the authority itself, which is the minister. With this legal act, we are not creating this law, which I would like to stress once again very strongly, no new service. In addition to the internal surveillance officer and his alternates, the Internal Surveillance Office will be seconded to carry out the tasks of the Police and Border Guard officers and the State Protection Service in the future. You can already talk about her officers here, because this bill is sort of on the way, today it's the Government Protection Office. And firefighters of the State Fire Department. The essence of this solution is based on the expertise of seconded officers in the internal functioning of their home services, which is intended to facilitate the achievement of the objectives set before the inspector of internal surveillance and the minister responsible for home affairs. Thus, the Act limits to the minimum the financial consequences of the functioning of the Office of Internal Supervision for the State budget. These effects are clearly shown in the impact assessment as an integral part of the justification for the draft law. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The provisions of the present law also assume that cells for internal affairs, cells called today's internal affairs offices in two formations, i.e. in the Police and Border Guard, located so far in the main commands of these formations and subordinate to the chief commandants of these services, will be isolated and become independent organisational units within these departments. At the same time, the nature of the tasks of the new units will remain unchanged, but the chiefs of the Police Office and the Bureau of Home Affairs of the Border Guard and their deputies will be appointed by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, and they will be subject to the question here which you have tried to face, and which has fallen on the part of one of the senators. . Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. They will not be subject to And this is a very important procedure, which is important for the effectiveness of this supervisory system to the chiefs, because... what much to say here is difficult to supervise itself. The point is that the Minister of the Interior should have instruments of oversight of services that are not under the command of the chiefs, but directly to him. Of course, this will be done through the performance of these tasks by, as I said, the inspector of internal surveillance and his office, because, looking at it from the practical and pragmatic point of view, the minister is personally unable to perform all these activities, he must do so by some organizational cell. This is the case with all other tasks. And here's the answer to that question, and I would like to stress very strongly that it doesn't come back. That is exactly how it is foreseen that the Heads of Home Offices will be subject to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. So... There, too, there was a question of why there is such a provision, not another, as regards the fixing of the annual prize. It is precisely that the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration will be this annual award, in other words, the thirteenth prize, that I would grant to the commanders of these units. If it weren't, it would be the chief commandant, from whom we take out these chiefs to gain some influence in this area, and that would confuse issues concerning, so to speak, competence and unambiguous subjection. Even if sometimes it's just a mechanical operation, it shouldn't be in a competence system that raises any doubts. The proposed organisational arrangements will contribute to improving efficiency in identifying, preventing and detecting negative developments in the Police and Border Guard. As part of the parent formations, it will also provide police and border guards' internal affairs offices with greater autonomy, as I said, in carrying out their tasks and as a result will improve their effectiveness. In the new formula, these offices will cooperate in this respect with the inspector of internal surveillance. At the same time, the scope of supervision exercised by the Minister to supervise the performance of tasks by the Office of Internal Affairs of one and the other service, whose commanders will be chiefs, now they are directors, I am thinking of the Police and Border Guard, i.e. those formations where these offices are today, will present to the Minister information and materials that could actually be relevant for the supervision and effectiveness of this office. I would also like to add that the home affairs office... the internal surveillance inspector Well, let's talk about him as the head of this office that he's going to be subject to. It will be able to commission police and border guards' internal affairs offices, of course, to carry out certain tasks. Therefore, this structure will not be large. There was also a question, so maybe I'll answer it now. We predict that this cell, called to perform the minister's duties, will consist of 50 people to help him. Well, that's the size of the middle department in the ministry. It will be composed of an internal surveillance inspector, his deputy... The question was, who could be that internal surveillance inspector, or an officer, or a civilian? It could be like this, and it could be like this. We assume that it could be either a civilian person or just posted from the service and employed by the inspector at the Office of Internal Surveillance. I can't say anything else today, because if I said anything more, I would reveal the plans for who would be that inspector of internal surveillance if the bill came into force, and that's still ahead of us. We predict that there will be 35 inspectors in this Office of Internal Surveillance, i.e. officers seconded from the Police, Border Guard, and in the future also the State Security Service, which is today's BOR, and five experts from the State Fire Department and today the Government Security Office. Because we are talking about the current statutory regulations, yet the Law on the State Protection Service does not have in the sense of the existing legal act, and 8 civilians to handle essential tasks in this office, so that a total of 50 people. Additional costs related to this are also specified I'd like to answer the question right away, too. In the impact assessment. May I point out here that 10 years, because the effects of the regulation are always assessed at 10 years, these effects are expected to amount to 42 million PLN. In the first year, 2018, 5.8 million, because this is about actions that are slightly more expensive, related to organization, office equipment, then less, 3 million with some decimals. But that's how it's written, the High Senate has it in its impact assessment, and I'd like to point that out right away. High Izbo, I would now like to address briefly some of the amendments tabled by the Senate Legislative Office, which were presented during the meetings of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. I have the impression that Senator Jan Rulewski did not understand much of the amendments he had taken from the Legal Office. That's what you said. But I'll be right back. First of all, I would like to point out that these comments are generally not of a substantive nature, which was emphasised by the legislature of the Senate Legislative Office. These are mainly remarks of order, editorial or linguistic nature, which in fact do not affect the understanding and application of the provisions of the Act. This is mainly because, not for these three reasons, for none of the three reasons that you mentioned, I requested that the bill be adopted without amendments, only because these amendments do not affect the readability, the substance, the interpretation of the provisions of the law. Therefore, it is probably possible to discuss them, as I said at the committee meeting, at one of those committee meetings in which you participated, only that acceptance or non-adoption, and in particular the adoption of these amendments, would not change the substance of the matter, would not affect the quality of the bill and its understanding. Lawyers are discussing with each other. Part of the amendments proposed by you by the Legislative Office of the Senate concerned provisions that were adopted in consultation and, in some cases, at the request of the Legislative Office of the Sejm, and therefore the discussion between the offices seemed unnecessary. Why did I not make these amendments clear at the first meeting? Again, not for these three reasons, nor for any of them, just because we received these amendments just after the start of the committee meeting. They could not be dealt with responsibly because we had no opportunity to get acquainted with them. After the work had been postponed a few days, after returning on Monday, and the previous committee meeting was, apparently, Thursday... Thursday? Yeah, whatever. A few days were between one and the other. We have already been able, after careful analysis, to say that these amendments do not bring anything significant. I therefore requested that the bill be adopted without amendments, which I would like to maintain before the High Senate today. Contrary to the statement of the Senate's Legislative Office, there is no doubt about the compatibility of the present law with the principles of legislative technology, and this was explained at all stages of the legislative work on the Act. As its scope and subject matter correspond to the existing scope of the Act of 21 June 1996 on certain powers of servants of the office serving the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and officials and servants of the offices supervised by that Minister. That's what this bill is about. She's left with all the matter, extensive, true, more extensive than the starting point than her mother's bill... These are more extensive records, but they remain, as far as the subject matter and subject matter are concerned, in the same semantic field as the amended act. By the way, the size of this project is largely due also to the inclusion of changes in the provisions of many other laws, such as Article. As well as the need to draw up the implementing provisions, these are Article 2. 32.46; some of them are extensive in their records It is essential for the smooth implementation of new solutions. The question of amending the title of the Act raised in the comments also raises no doubt. Thus, the amendment to the wording of the provision conferring a new title of the Act is not of a substantive nature with regard to the present Act and will in no way affect its functioning and the wording contained in the draft does not deviate from other provisions applicable in such laws. In addition, the mere wording of the provision makes it clear that it is a title or As indicated by the Senate Legislative Office Its descriptive part. The most important thing is that the subject-matter and subject-matter of this law does not change. The issue of the number of rules is assessed differently and, as far as this assessment is concerned, there is no clear limit to the point at which, in the event of a major change, a new law must already be written, and when the existing law can still be amended. That's the case. I'd say It's a grade. So we have no doubt that everything is okay when it comes to legislative technique, and especially in line with the Constitution, because it also concerned questions formulated somewhere. At the same time, I would like to refer again to the first part of my speech and to remind you that the text of the Act adopted by the Sejm on 9 November 2017 is the result of the work of the committee and the Sejm subcommittee, as well as the work of the whole Sejm, and some of the comments of the Senate legislator Yes, a senate legislature, because it was one legislator, a legislator. It concerns changes made at the request of the Legislative Office of the Sejm, where there were several legislators. It's also worth noting the difference. I would also like to inform you that a small part of the comments on issues that could actually cause interpretation problems have been taken into account in the work of the subcommittee, and now the committee, because this happened yesterday... Or today? Today. I'm sorry. Those days are so juicy, you have to control yourself when the work was going on and when it was over. Part of the comments was taken into account in the work of the subcommittee and committees examining the draft law on the State Protection Service. And here, Mr. Senator, in fact, I think your main point is this concern that you expressed about what you called pay for the whistleblowers... Of course, that's not what this record is about, it's not about any whistleblowers. It is simply an operational fund and the payment of personal sources of information. [[It's the signal guy.]] [[It's not the same.]] It's not the same, Mr. Senator, you've got the wrong two things. That's why I said that before, maybe you didn't quite understand certain... [[I'm sorry. The point is, this one, and this one is reporting.]] No, he doesn't. This was reported in those days when you were being repressed. That's when it was reported. By the way, Mr. Senator. I know your story. We all know your story. The aim of this law is to prevent situations such as those of the past from happening. So that there's real oversight of the services, so that no one is tempted by surveillance, so that no one is tempted by the use of surgical and cognitive activities that are unlawful, wrongly. It is precisely that the minister who is responsible for this should be able to supervise this effectively. So that citizens' rights are not violated, simply. This is the essence of this bill. And when it comes to this matter of tax or not taxing, because, of course, it is about not being taxed by the operating fund for those reasons which you have already rightly mentioned here, that these must be classified operations. This is what we have introduced into the Law on the State Protection Service, which has already been adopted by the committee, a provision that explicitly regulates these issues, just as you expect: it will not be taxed. So the case is settled, only in a different bill. So that this concern should not exist here, because the case is doomed, and the work on that Law on the State Protection Service is already advanced and will probably come into force soon. Incidentally, the provision on this issue comes into force earlier than the entire law I am talking about, the Law on the State Protection Service. This provision shall enter into force earlier, as soon as possible, and the entire law, according to the draft, shall enter into force on 1 February 2018. [[This one goes in, too, you don't know when. And there'll even be two...]] Mr. Senator, don't worry, this case is well settled in that bill. [[That's what I think.]] So that this amendment is simply not necessary. We'd double those records. And there's another reason. The bill that you refer to as Senator and legislator has not yet entered into force. So we can't actually introduce this rule today before that tax bill. [[But January 1 will enter, and this one will not know when.]] [[Mr. Senator, please be quiet.]] Mr. Senator, when he comes in, the Law on State Protection will settle this issue with regard to the operational fund. As far as I'm concerned... Yeah, that's the art. 6. As regards these amendments to the Individual Income Tax Act, which have been prepared in accordance with the provisions in force so far Because, like I said, they haven't come into force yet... We take into account the so-called. Timing, that is, the chronology of entering into force of these laws, we correlate all this with each other, so that don't be afraid. And we can't outrun it. The solution adopted thus reduces the risk of a gap in the rules concerned, as the Act of 27 October 2017 amending the Act on personal income tax, because the senator refers to it. The Corporate Income Tax Act and the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain revenues generated by individuals have not yet entered into force. On the other hand, the bill presented to the High House is at the end of the legislative process, which, in view of its short vacatio legis, could threaten to limit the possibility of taking advantage of the full potential of the Internal Surveillance Office. So we decided the case as I presented it. Ms Marshal, High Izbo, summing up, I would like to stress that the solutions proposed in the present act will, on the one hand, implement the supervision exercised by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of his services, and on the other hand, It will allow effective and objective verification of information on malfunctions in their operation and take immediate appropriate supervisory action. I would like to make it clear that this is really expected in terms of effectiveness and the first systemic approach to this issue in many years. I would also like to stress that law enforcement officers, which is obvious to all of us, should have the highest standards. Besides, they are written down and in the course of vows, and in laws that regulate the way in which tasks are performed, moral standards and ethics. I am no longer talking about professionalism, which is the foundation of social trust in the institutions of the state. Yeah, but where people are, it happens all the time. In such large formations, in particular such as the 100-thousandth police, there may be situations that need to be addressed, and tools are needed, instruments are needed. The solutions proposed in the Act aim primarily at eliminating negative phenomena, pathology in the services and eliminating from the services persons who undermine social confidence in their conduct. Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal, and once again, on behalf of the government, I ask you to adopt a law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u307	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. I know you want to ask Senator Waldemar Sługocki. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u308	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, one technical question. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 11n paragraph. 29 amendments were introduced by the obligation of the Minister responsible for Home Affairs to provide the Polish Sejm and Senate with annual information on the activities of the Office of Internal Supervision by 30 June. Here's my question. Does not accepting this information by the Sejm and the Senate have a pejorative effect on the continued functioning of the office, or is it just a formal issue? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u309	Such a provision has so far been in force for services which have special powers due to operational and cognitive activities. It's a recipe designed like solutions in other laws. Well, it's information, it's an obligation to submit information. The decision of the Sejm is what he will do with it. The Sejm is to receive such information, it is an obligation for the Minister to present it in the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u310	Thank you very much. Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u311	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, every minister has some supervision over his business. The point is, you have to have the right tools for this surveillance. And here we agree that these tools may be missing, but it can be said that the Minister can always cancel, I don't know, the chief of police... Besides, the Minister once called off Chief Maja after his performance we watched. So that there are various other tools that can be used, but there are certain limits to their application. And now two questions, Minister. The first question concerns these consultations with social factors, police unions. I did not get any answers from the rapporteurs, and it follows that this was not discussed at the committee meeting. Is this a consultation... It's a government project, so they should be. If they were, I'd like to know what the relationship's opinion was. Minister, second case. It's about these surgical and cognitive activities. Because as far as the minister's oversight is concerned, he must be. I mean, what would it look like technically? Will it look like that the Minister will only have access to some protocols and documents, or will he carefully examine all activities, if he wishes, and will have the opportunity to thoroughly verify... As I understand it, this is not just about police officers in these operations. A lot of different information is collected. What I'm interested in is whether these powers that will be granted to you... The Minister will have his inspector or authorized persons to do so. I understand it's not the Minister himself... Well, that's the kind of danger that happens. I would like to know how far these powers of the Minister will go under this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u312	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u313	As far as consultations are concerned, trade unions have been the first to speak on this issue. These were both written opinions and those delivered during the work, especially the sub-committee. Trade unions have been very active in this work. They raised various questions, concerns, doubts. Some trade unions, through their representatives, also took part, say, in the search for proper records, in order to better shape the provisions of the law. The subcommittee adopted a number of changes to the original text. The trade unions did not, of course, express their admiration for this bill, but that is no reason not to accept it. Mr. Senator, trade unionists are also officers. - No, in this uniform section. I am not surprised, therefore, that they were not impressed with the establishment of such an institution. I can imagine if we consulted with the chiefs, they probably wouldn't be impressed either, maybe even more so. Mr. Senator, High Senate, this is about the effectiveness of this oversight. It can't be the only tool you're suggesting is to dismiss the chief. You called an example with a particular name. Well, nothing out of the ordinary. The commanders are called, and when there are important reasons for doing so, they are also called off. This mechanism is not new. It is known, natural, obvious. Sure, we'd like the commandants to be perfect and function as long as possible, but even in these situations, sometimes you need fresh breaths, a refresher, so to speak, a look at important things. And after a long time, various systems are created in different places, as we all know, which have to be broken, too. Well, it's pretty obvious, but the point is that dismissing the chiefs isn't the only tool. It's always possible, of course, but that's not the point. The chief's appeal sometimes doesn't change the substance of the case, doesn't solve the problem that occurred. You just have to examine it, you have to have a tool to examine it and react. So it's the construction that we've had so far. The minister basically supervised the services, but apart from the chief's appeal, he couldn't do anything. She was flawed. At the same time, the rules place responsibility for this and then the media, Members, Senators, citizens resent that there is something left. It's done, and the minister's helpless because there's no instrument to do it. So the point is to give him this instrument. And this bill is what this instrument gives. It can't be like it's been for years. Well, I remember that especially in recent years when I was on the Board of Administration and Internal Affairs of the Sejm. I've been on the bureau of this committee for two terms and various difficult cases have happened over the last eight years. They have also happened over the last 25 and 27 years, but I am thinking in particular about these last 8 years when I was working on this committee. And it was usually the case that the Minister, when asked about various difficult matters, answered the main commandant's language. He talked about what the chief of the service, e.g. The police, he told him. What he wanted to say, he said, and what he didn't want to say, the minister didn't know. Under the current terms of reference, the chief always knows more than the minister supervising him. This is absurd, ladies and gentlemen. It's absurd, it has to be changed. He who supervises must have the right to inspect various materials and information in order to effectively assess whether it is good or bad. And that's what this bill is all about. Why all the philosophy, all the negation, all the squabbling that maybe it's unnecessary? It's very necessary. And the senator's second question... I'm sorry, I didn't even get a chance to write it down by standing behind the speaker. [[And the second question was... I was talking about the surgical and diagnostics thing. How far is this gonna go?]] Yeah, I get it. Yeah, yeah, I remember. [[Is this just general surveillance?]] I remember, sir. The bill defines it. The point is... there's really two spheres here. One area concerns officers. If there are situations that need to be checked, such as law enforcement, abuse, pathology, it must be an appropriate instrument. And it is the Bureau of Internal Supervision that will have this instrument, and it will be an instrument in the hands of the Minister. The second area is to assess whether the services authorised for operational and diagnostic activities, e.g. Police, Border Guard, fire department doesn't have that kind of authority. And in the future, the State Protection Service will perform them correctly. And the bill states that this is about assessing the correctness of performing surgical and cognitive activities. The Minister is to judge and will therefore have access to these materials - the accuracy of the conduct of the surgical and exploratory activities. It's not like that, for example. Police or other servants Although the example of the police is the best here, because it is the greatest service, it has the most tasks in this area and the ability to abuse its powers, secret powers towards citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot accept this on faith. If the Minister wants to be responsible for this And he's got to be responsible for that, there's no choice. It must be possible to verify whether everything is being handled correctly or not. And that's the answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u314	Thank you, Minister. Senator Jan Rulewski and then Senator Krzysztof Elephant. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u315	Minister, don't you think it is right that this plea is formulated by the Legislative Office, which says, among other things, About the talk, about the stylistic and editorial errors. Well, it's about this inhumane little take: you pass an officer to, let's say, an office... Instead of moving it because that's the nomenclature. And on the other hand, in the article. 11 h is in Article. This is the case: staff whose knowledge and experience can contribute to the Office's tasks can be employed at the Office. Well, it's just a little talk. What does that mean? That you can also accept those who cannot contribute to the office's tasks? Or is this about experts? And it's another language that describes itself, i.e. it is said that there may be employed specialists who, let's say, can... i.e. they may not, but they will, yes, carry out the tasks of the office. So it's not that they can contribute. Finally, the issue of this six, which was the most discussed here, and which is of a legislative nature of the strict sense. Because now, it depends on how the president sees it and when he signs it. He can sign it... E.g. will be published only on 3 January. And that bill, which you rightly referred to as being finalized, has a rigid deadline: January 1st. Thus, it may turn out that two laws on the different wordings of this provision will come into force in the article. Six, that's the one talking about the fund... about the prizes from the operating fund, that's the work that... sorry that these aren't the right ones to signal... That's why it's a reservation. And a third. You know, it's a surprise, though. This is Senator Florek speaking... Is duplicateing this officer's check, actually supervision That's more than an officer's check. Can it cause, say, misunderstandings? Because there will be other findings of the inspector, and others of what he does in such a situation. And I think he's even obliged to do it. Chief. Another will be the way to reward those people who will control. That also requires an answer. Maybe the answer here is that the police are currently short 500 jobs because she's afraid of a magician who's gonna fall on her.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u316	Good. Thank you, Senator. Senator Krzysztof Elephant. Please. [[Thank you, Mrs. Marshal...]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Maybe I'll answer first, because then... Maybe I'll answer, Senator, Mrs. Marshal, because...]] But I think that's gonna be the last question... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Oh, unless so. Good.]] I'd like to ask you one more thing... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: If there is such hope, please.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah. 'Cause I don't think there's gonna be any more questions. Then we'd be done with this tour, Minister. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: There you go.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u317	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I am actually only interested in the technical issue, which is enshrined in the article. 45, i.e. this 10-year spending limit. He's quite specific, it's written for the whole period. In the first, sixth and tenth years this limit is slightly higher than the limits of the remaining years. But I am interested in this in the context of further records that say that if there was a risk of exceeding or exceeding the limit, then there will be an adjustment mechanism that works only down. But wouldn't it be appropriate that the measures that may have been saved in a given year should be saved in some way? Because, let's say, the operations in a given year were less... After all, it may happen that in the next year there will be more worrying events that require more investment. So should this correction mechanism be written down in such a way that it leads to this annual limit never being exceeded? Is there any chance that this institution will have some freedom, i.e. so that she can manage these resources more flexibly in this decade, also in order to improve efficiency? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u318	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. Minister, please respond... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Hope will be fulfilled. Mr. Senator, I'll start with this...]] Please answer these questions and we will proceed with the discussion. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u319	I'm gonna start with that Senator's question, because the simplest answer to that question is basically shorter. Well, that's the principle of legislative technology, that's the requirement that comes from the Public Finance Act, and there's nothing more we can do here. That's it. I understand the senator's kindness to the case, but these are the principles of legislative technology that arise from the Public Finance Act, which is a requirement of the Ministry of Finance. We can't correct upstairs. As for the Members' questions... excuse me, Senator Rulewski... Of course, there will be no double check. The chief and commanders of the voivodships will have their office. This is in the case of the main command Or control departments in the voivodship headquarters. And here is this particular surveillance mode with the possibility of deep penetration into irregularities if they occur or there are signals about these irregularities. It's gonna be one evaluation. Because the minister takes over with the help of the internal surveillance inspector and the internal surveillance office the competences of those two departments which were subject to these services, i.e. the so-called. Police in the police department. This will now be separated and subordinated to the Home Minister. This is the only solution. If no one, including us, can come up with a better way to guarantee the external supervision of the minister who is responsible for the operation of the services. That's not gonna happen anymore, it's just this one, which is BSW and BNW, right? [[The chief's getting fired?]] The Chief is still responsible for everything that the Police Act assigns him, but the Bureau of Internal Affairs, the Bureau of Internal Affairs, will not be subject to him. He will also be subject to control if necessary... [[It's understandable, it's understandable.]] ...the Internal Affairs Bureau, because it can't be that the Chief Chief is out of control, and until today he has. Because he was the one with the tool... [[Okay.]] ...and when it comes to, for example, For an insight into the material gathered by the BSW, the Bureau of Internal Affairs of the Police, he had access to it, and the Minister didn't. [[Excuse me, just a follow-up question. If the chief of command, as a result of complaints, conclusions, his thinking, actions, information about the officer's corruption, what, he's gonna pass it on to the inspector?]] Yeah, of course. It has control functions within its competence and has instruments after that, but if this requires such actions and instruments as will be available to the Office of Internal Supervision, it is meant to convey it there. [[But the evaluation is...]] [[Thank you very much...]] But still... [[Oh, there you go.]] Another grade... There can't be another grade here. The facts must be clearly assessed... [[Well, not necessarily.]] ...through access to full information. These discussions, whether they convey or not, are what wording is used... It has been transferred from another law, it is not some error in this law, it is simply the wording that has been transferred from other laws. It is functioning and has not affected anyone so far. So I'm asking you to take it as if with some distance, because it really doesn't change anything in this bill, that we'd even make one word for another. And what you've been calling, Senator, is that maybe twice... This applies to 2 cases: that such a person can be employed and that his qualifications can contribute to the achievement of the tasks and, of course, only then can he be hired. That's actually a condition. [[But it doesn't have to be written.]] So that's 2 terms a little repeated, but referring to another matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u320	Thank you, Minister. Thank you so much for answering my questions. Let's get to the discussion. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome... [[No, I'm sorry, I just made some adjustments.]] [[I asked for a vote.]] Excuse me, Senator Piotr Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u321	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The sequence of events we've been seeing lately is very disturbing to me. I have observed such a phenomenon that the Law and Justice want to control everyone and everywhere, because in my opinion you know that you can no longer give up power and you must do everything you can to never give up that power again. That's what it looks like. We start with the Constitutional Court, one by one, the D.A.'s office... Now a very loud case is the electoral code, which has been under investigation for a few days, which we all know very well. He's about to go to the Senate, and there's going to be a lot of debate about it. The Minister spoke about this bill, that it is in accordance, everything is fine, everything is in accordance, the title is also. Minister, the legislative techniques are in force, there is even such a provision in the Constitution, in the article. 2, if I remember, then you may have doubts as to whether this law is in accordance with the Constitution. But if the law in force since 1996 has 2.5 pages and a law is being created, which has 100 pages, then it is known that there must be a lot of new things in this law. So it's clear that it was worth taking... After all, no one would protest if it were just a new law, there would be no problem, not an amendment. It could have been done. Of course, now we will not ask about compatibility with the Constitution, because the Constitutional Tribunal generally already in Poland after all these changes, you can even say so, does not exist. The state here at the meetings, when we discussed this, you said what these changes will be made, what it will look like, how the Constitutional Tribunal will work more quickly. Today we know that it works twice as slowly, that it doesn't take... What does it look like, especially this conference, Madam President... I'm not gonna get into this anymore, and I'm gonna talk about it, 'cause I'm sorry to talk about it. It just doesn't exist anymore. Okay, well, then you have to have full control, it's the Big Brother who watches everything, everywhere and everything. Right now, according to these actions, this is how it's supposed to work. And how does that affect the service, the police? Let me give you an example, Minister. Assistant Inspector Grey in Poznań. I heard Minister Błaszczak say on TV after Mr Grey defended the police, that he probably signed up for the total opposition, etc. This sub-inspector Grey, whom I know well, is a trade unionist known in Poland. But what did it turn out to be? Shortly after that I don't know what those things were like, who ordered it, what it looked like when it came to internal control. The charge was that the son's wedding was organized at a place where the trade unionists seemed to meet, so maybe he got something out of it, and that he shared the money that the aid to police officers was against the rules for police families. That's the charges he's been charged with. I don't know what it looks like right now. The prosecution in Poznan wasn't supposed to do that because it's in Poznan. She was supposed to take care of it by the D.A.'s office in Konin or Gorzów. I don't know. I still haven't followed it. I'm just giving an example, an example of how this can affect police officers. That's why I asked you about operating techniques, how this is supposed to look when it comes to these surgical and cognitive issues, how far this surveillance is going to go. We have learned that he will indeed reach, you can say, to the very end, so it will be possible to see all the documents, that is, the inspector of supervision or the persons appointed by him... There's only going to be some information. And in the case of Inspector Grey, someone anonymously provided that information and the proceedings were initiated. Therefore, Minister, Minister of Home Affairs, Administration and Home Affairs, according to what you have said, after the introduction of this law he will have, so to speak, broad possibilities, broad competences, what the Attorney General already has, Minister of Justice, now Minister Błaszczak, then the courts. So the question is, is this bill acceptable? With regard to those 20 amendments which the Legislative Office has tabled, and probably mostly there are It's a very valid amendment... In general, Minister, after listening to the Minister and after today's discussion... I have noticed that in these minority proposals there is no proposal to reject the entire bill. I think there's some amendments there... I was convinced there was such a conclusion. So that I just quickly wrote a motion to reject the entire bill. This bill, in my opinion, should be overworked, should be remade so that there really is no doubt. There are limits that shouldn't be crossed so that this is an essential task... There's no doubt about it... Each of us believes that there were cases of this supervision, such as the Igor Stachowiak mentioned above, etc. It should probably be bigger, and we'll agree with that, but how do we do that, how do we get to this oversight... As for this bill, about this project, I think it's a very bad, dangerous bill, which leads to the fact that unfortunately everyone who is going to be listed in some way on the police, for various reasons and so on... Through this bill, there will always be access to the ability to control, to check, to inquire, even on the basis of some anonymous device that can affect at any time. Therefore, I believe that this law is not good, and I am filing a motion to reject the entire law, Mrs Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u322	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have tabled legislative proposals in writing by Senator Jan Rulewski and Senator Piotr Florek. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u323	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! It is difficult to discuss when a public officer, such as the senator, comes out to the Senate speaker and says that there is virtually no Constitutional Tribunal. [[There isn't.]] Mr. Senator, you're an experienced man, such statements are reprehensible, they're just reprehensible. [[There isn't.]] [[No, there isn't, I'm joining.]] That's one thing. Secondly, a motion to reject this law does not mean anything other than that you and your club I understand that you want the Civic Platform to have pathology in the police. Yes? That's how you want it. That's how you read it. Pathologies in the police and other services. You want pathology, you want tolerance for them. Congratulations. And the third case. If you want to give examples, I would advise you to think very carefully about what you say, especially what names you use. Because if you make Mr. Grey a hero... Just congratulations. I am farthest from judging anyone, and especially judging before the decisions of the organs that are entitled to it, because I am not entitled to it, but from the knowledge that I have, certainly remains and far from complete, it appears that making your unionist Grey hero and pattern merely confirms what I have told you, accusing you of wanting the police to have pathologies to be tolerated. But that's it, that's all I can say. It's a bad example, a bad example. I wouldn't use that name at all, but since you used it, I felt entitled to refer to it. But it really is a bad example of heroism, if anything, it's rather antiheroism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u324	Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to remind you that item 13 of the agenda: the amendment of the Social Security Act and some other laws will be discussed tomorrow morning. We proceed with the review of item 14 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Social Cooperatives and certain other laws. The bill's text is in print No 662, and the committee's report In print No 662 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, to submit a report to the committee. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u325	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Minister! We're all tired, and I was actually wondering how to get your attention for a moment... Well, maybe it's such an unusual situation that I haven't acted as an active opposition senator in a very long time, reporting to the government. Maybe that's why I haven't acted that way in a long time, that I haven't, to such an extent, so far approved the presentation, considering it necessary and timely. There was some controversy about this at the committee meeting. Senator Rulewski suggested that this submission was a little late, indicated that the labour market had changed a lot and that it remained mainly for people with various kinds of problems: disabled people, long-term unemployed and long-term excluded. This is the kind of people that social cooperatives are supposed to serve before social integration centres In order to gently introduce these people into the open labour market. There is already quite a lot of experience resulting from the application of this law on social cooperatives and social employment. And from this experience, this law is born. So first of all, I am pleased that you are listening to these voices, which I am listening to, the founder or the initiator of the creation of several social cooperatives, which have encountered, especially at the start, quite large barriers. And this bill removes a lot of them. There are a lot of them, you have them described in the print. Then I won't discuss them all because it's late and there's no way to do it. Maybe I'll concentrate on what I think is most important. Namely, the limit of people who can set up social cooperatives outside the circle of people at risk of social exclusion will be increased to 70%. when the founders of this cooperative will be persons with moderate and significant disabilities. We should all like this, because the greater the degree of disability, the greater the difficulty of returning to the labour market. Similarly, it conspires with this provision in relation to persons with disabilities another provision concerning the amendment to the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, which refers to the possibility of directing participants in these workshops In the order of up to 50% participants for traineeships with employers. It would therefore be a continuation of the programme, which had previously allowed participants to return to the labour market in the workshops of occupational therapy and occupational activities. In fact, I have actually raised my doubts as to whether this limit is indeed the happiest solution, but I accept the Ministry's explanation that this is where we start, of course, taking into account the assessments that are being made there in order to see how the individual programme is being implemented. Surely it is worth noticing that it decreases from 5 to 3 the number of people who may be founders of the cooperative, if they are natural persons. This recipe raised a little doubt. We were not sure that this was enough to fill all the necessary social cooperative authorities, but we accepted the explanations that said that this was a transitional solution. Then this number must be increased so that the cooperative can function fully. I think it is important to create the possibility of creating consortia so that public procurement can be sought. However, Mrs Orzechowska, referring to this provision, tabled an amendment so that these consortia could also be created by occupational therapy workshops, occupational activity centres and social inclusion clubs. I am very grateful for this because I prepared myself to make such an amendment. The majority of the committees supported it with the approval of the Ministry, so it is certain that the work of the Commission will make this law more friendly to social cooperatives here and increase their market opportunities. These provisions in the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities are important, which give the right to one-off support for the establishment of PFRON measures, provided, of course, that the person concerned does not benefit from other public resources. It is the same with the provision of one-off support for the creation of a job for the person targeted by the district labour office. There are also a number of friendly changes in the Employment Promotion Act and the Institutions of the labour markets. Finally, it could be said that they give social cooperatives the right to those instruments which were available to other actors in the labour market. I am referring to the granting by the elderly of measures in the form of one-off support for a disabled person's economic activity, precisely in the form of a social cooperative, the provision of one-off support up to six times the average salary for the creation of a job in these cooperatives and the granting of non-refundable support to the unemployed. It is also a reservation that this also applies to job seekers who do not remain in employment and do not do any other work. Of course, other provisions apply to this, so it is likely that this catalogue of benefits associated with this submission is greater. I'll stop there so I don't take any more time. I would just like to say that part of our discussion at the committee meeting also addressed the issue of paying or not paying contributions to the National Cooperative Council. The representative of the National Cooperative Council argued that membership of the audit union is, however, completely different and that the audit union performs different functions, and that membership of the cash register allows to participate in the entire cooperative movement and at the same time to benefit from what the National Cooperative Council has to offer. In this bill we introduce such a debatable relief. Namely, we exempt social cooperatives from the obligation to pay contributions when they already pay a contribution in relation to the audit. Generally, with the payment of contributions and to the audit unions, and to the National Bank, it is not good, but let us remember that as long as these contributions are high for the revision relationship, counted in thousands of PLN, that is, there may be a financial barrier, as far as the National Council is concerned, it is below 50 PLN per month. They are therefore not large amounts, but they allow cooperatives to participate in the whole movement. The President of the National Bank said that this affiliation also gives such an advantage or a material perspective. I am going to say now, Minister, because I do not want to take the floor later, I have made a meeting myself, such a forum of all the co-operatives, including social cooperatives. My intention was to bring them together so that housing cooperatives, labor cooperatives, agricultural cooperatives could see a social partner in cooperatives. And I have to tell you that this is not a big success, but in individual cases it worked out, orders fell down. It's possible. It seems to me that the National Cooperative Council, at least declarively, if it wanted to engage in this, would, in my opinion, be able to do so if it were strong and if social cooperatives, at least those active, had paid appropriate contributions to the register. Unfortunately, this amendment did not find acceptance. Therefore, on behalf of the committee, I express my positive opinion on this submission and encourage the High House to adopt it, together with the amendment which was adopted by the committee. On my own behalf, I also encourage you to take into account my amendment concerning the contribution to the National Cooperative Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u326	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Family, Senior and Social Policy has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Krzysztof Michałkiewicz, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy is with us. Would the Minister like to speak? Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u327	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I will say this briefly, because the rapporteur, Senator Augustine, has said a lot, but a few sentences of addition may be worth adding. Firstly, the Social Cooperatives Act is already 10 years old. We celebrated the decade last year. During this period, the concerns which accompanied the adoption of this law were that it would be a competition for other economic operators proved to be false. Cooperatives functioned in such a very specific niche. It is used by people at risk of exclusion. Of course, cooperatives, although in the meantime around 1,000 600 have been created, are still very weak and very fragile entities. Surely it is worth leaning on how you can support them, how you can help them, how you can make them more popular. For us, this is important for the ministry because social cooperatives are one of the few instruments of active social policy. Instead of helping people at risk of exclusion, we give them an instrument that allows them to function in society. It is worth noting here that social cooperatives combine economic elements with social elements. In addition to economic activity, they are also engaged in social reintegration. In addition to professional reintegration, this social reintegration is a determinant the activities of social cooperatives. Often this is the most important part of their activity. As Senator Augustine mentioned, the project submitted is mainly intended to facilitate the establishment of cooperatives, enable them to function better and organise forms of support for them. We've put a few new instruments here that seem important to us. First of all, they relate to people with disabilities and their functioning in social cooperatives. It is also important for me to change, which results from the program "For Life." Workshop participants in occupational therapy, those who are the most difficult to employ, will be able to practice in social cooperatives to see whether taking up employment or working activity is what would give them a chance to live a more dignified and more active life. I took the floor to refer to the two amendments tabled. One has been accepted. Of course, we are very pleased that consortia will also be able to set up entities that run... These include other social economy actors, occupational therapy workshops, occupational activity establishments or centres, social inclusion clubs. I think this is a positive amendment. It offers an opportunity to combine economic activity with social reintegration. The second amendment, rejected, is an amendment which, we believe, does not take into account the specifics of social cooperatives. Although they are part of the cooperative movement, they are certainly distinguished by a very important feature. Other cooperatives, e.g. Labour cooperatives or housing cooperatives are profit-oriented, and social cooperatives are primarily focused on social reintegration of participants, who are people at risk of social exclusion, disabled people, people leaving prisons or educational institutions, people who certainly have a very difficult start in terms of professional activity. Often it takes a lot of instruments to bring them into this activity. I would also like to correct what the senator said. I'm sure it's not about thousands. As for the contribution to the National Cooperative Council, it amounts to PLN 550 per year. As far as the contribution paid in the National Association of Revisional Social Cooperatives is concerned, it amounts to PLN 150 or PLN 200 depending on the number of members. The thousands you've been talking about are about the vetting. The cost of the vetting can actually be 2,000. These are certainly sporadic stories, but they actually require activity. It seems to me that social cooperatives are worth considering as exceptional entities and that they are worth supporting. They give opportunities to people who are not otherwise able to function in society, to social inclusion, to return to society. It's worth supporting. Thank you for seeing and supporting this opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u328	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Krzysztof Michałkiewicz: Thank you beautifully.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Robert Mammothov made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Your Senate, I would like to inform you that tomorrow we will begin by voting on some of the laws that have been dealt with today, including the Waste Act. We will then proceed to the resolution on the establishment of the year 2018 of the event or institution, i.e. items from the 16th to the 19th agenda. According to the announcement after the commemorative resolutions, the Senate will consider a law amending the Social Security Act and certain other laws After that, the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2018, paragraph 7. Thank you very much. I'm declaring a recess until 9:00 tomorrow... [[We're still on the news.]] Oh, I'm sorry. Messages. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u329	The meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration on the proposals submitted at the 50th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act on certain powers of servants of the office serving the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and officials and servants of the offices supervised by that Minister and certain other acts will take place tomorrow at 8.30 a.m. in Room 182. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on the examination of applications for the Act on Insurance Distribution, Senate printing No 652, and the Act on amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and certain other laws, Senate printing No 653, will take place tomorrow at 8.15 am in room No 217. The meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media on the examination of applications submitted to the Solidarity and Fortitude Act will take place tomorrow at 8.30 a.m. in room 217. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-05-senat-51-1.u330	Thank you very much. I'm declaring a recess until 9:00 tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 21 minutes 02]]
