ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u1	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Public Finance - hour. 10, - Health-- hour. 12. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u2	Thank you, Member. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: First reading of the bill submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Act on the support of borrowers in financial difficulties who have taken up a housing loan and the Act on corporation tax (print No 1863). I ask the Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland of Mr.Paweł Mucha to present the justification of the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u3	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, I have the honour to present a bill amending the Act on the support of borrowers in financial difficulties who have taken up a housing loan and the Act on corporate income tax, which was submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland. The project introduces a change of regulation which has been in force in Poland since February 2016, but whose operation raises considerable concerns mainly raised by borrowers. The law on the support of borrowers in financial difficulties who have taken up a housing loan was intended to facilitate the repayment of housing loans to persons in a temporary difficult situation. Its main objective was to help relieve their domestic budgets. This law has set up the Creditor Support Fund, which is powered by the creditors' contributions in proportion to their credit portfolio. In the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland, work has been underway since 2015 on regulations aimed at strengthening the legal position of borrowers in relations with creditors. In August 2016, as you know, the President of the Republic of Poland sent to the Sejm a draft law on the rules for repayment of certain debts arising from credit and loan agreements, i.e. printing No 811. This bill is still being processed in committee. As part of the activities carried out in the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland for a long time, there have been demands for amendments to the Act of 2015 on the support of borrowers in financial difficulties who have taken up a housing loan. Since the beginning of operation of the Creditors Support Fund established by this Act, i.e. Since the beginning of 2016, difficulties in the effective use of the resources collected in it have been noticeable. Although the fund collected some PLN 600 million, its use at the end of 2016 was only around 2%. In 2016, according to BGK data, only 481 contracts were concluded with borrowers. The analyses carried out in the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland led to conclusions that this is mainly because too strict conditions have been established, which must be met by the borrower requesting assistance, and that the processing of applications has been left to the creditors to too much extent. This law has a potentially very important mechanism to support borrowers who are in financial and living difficulties. Aid that could flow from the fund to borrowers would allow many people to continue to regulate their commitments in a timely manner, preventing creditors from taking radical and irreversible steps towards customers. However, the analysis of the practical side of the application of the law in its current wording indicates that the ratio legis of these provisions is different from the actual life of that act. The reason, in our view, which causes a very small use of the fund's resources, is, as I said, to introduce too strict the requirements that the legislator puts before those who wish to benefit from the fund. In addition, certain procedural arrangements, such as: the finality of the decision, can be said in quotes, the lender of non-fulfilment of the conditions for receiving support by the borrower, causes that there is no verification of the creditor's decisions and the possibility of their recovery. The need for amendments to the Act is also due to the resolution No 14/2017 adopted by the Financial Stability Committee on 13 January 2017 on the recommendation for the restructuring of the housing loan portfolio in foreign currencies. According to the Committee, the Creditor Support Fund could also be used for other forms of support for borrowers, including support for voluntary restructuring of the housing portfolio for foreign currency. In principle, these two reasons, which are indicated, as I said, are too restrictive conditions which limit the use of the Fund's resources, and secondly, it is also argued that this is also the cause of the fully reversible nature of the support. In view of these circumstances, the draft law provides in particular for the modification of the criteria for granting support. In addition, it was also provided for the possibility of partial remission of the sums reimbursed in the event of timely reimbursement of part of the instalments for the support provided. At the same time, the project provides for a completely new legal instrument to support borrowers in financial difficulties. If the borrower decides to sell the credit property and the funds obtained from the sale do not cover the entire obligation to the creditor, then the Creditor Support Fund will be able to obtain a returnable, interest-free loan. In this respect, it will also be possible to partially redeem the capital repaid, as is the case with the support mechanism. [[Just like it was.]] Following the introduction of new forms of support for borrowers in the proposed regulations, it was envisaged to separate two specialised Creditors Support Fund Funds: Supporting and Restructuring Fund. The Support Fund will take over the existing functions of the Credit Support Fund and the role of the Restructuring Fund will be to support voluntary restructuring of housing loans denominated or indexed to a currency other than that in which the borrower obtains income. In addition, a revision of the Creditor Support Fund's power mechanism is envisaged in connection with the redrafting of tasks, as well as the separation of two specialised funds. High Izbo! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, To discuss the detailed arrangements contained in the draft law, it should be pointed out above all that the proposal involves a very important extension of the scope of the law. The current provisions of the Act set out only the terms and conditions for using the support provided through the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego for individuals who are in financial difficulties and are obliged to repay the housing loan. The amendment also proposes to introduce a loan in the Act to cover the remainder of the debt where the amount obtained from the sale did not cover the entire commitment, together with the rules for granting it and the conditions for using it. It is also proposed to extend the scope of the Act to support voluntary restructuring of residential loans denominated or indexed to a currency other than the currency in which the borrower obtains income. Here I would like to stress that - contrary to media information - this is not a law that would apply only to those borrowers who have loans to the Swiss franc. This applies in general to a currency other than that in which the borrower obtains income. [[That's what happened, nothing new.]] The new instruments listed in the Act will be financed from two separate, as I said, funds: the Supporting Fund and the Restructuring Fund. It is proposed to link the criteria under which the debt loan will be granted to the borrowers with the criteria for granting the existing form of aid, i.e. support. In the case of a debt loan, therefore, the corresponding criteria will in principle apply. At the same time, it is proposed to leave the existing criteria for granting support, but with significant modifications. Firstly, support could be obtained by a borrower who has lost his job. Secondly, support would be granted if the value of the DtI, i.e. the ratio of the borrower's expenditure in connection with the maintenance of the monthly instalment of the capital and the interest rate of the housing loan on household income exceeds 50%. To date, this indicator had to exceed 60%. Thirdly, it is proposed to reduce income requirements for the use of support. The proposal provides for a double increase in the amount of income per member of the family or per single-economy person that will be able to receive support under the Social Assistance Act. The aim of all these proposals, a certain liberalisation of these requirements justifying support, is simply to ensure that the funding of the Support Fund is better used than has been the case so far. In the case of all these criteria, this is important for the realization, the realization of the possibility of using this tool, which today was provided for in the Act, and as we know, the funds were not used. In view of the experience with the use of the Creditor Support Fund, it is also proposed to waive the existing restriction that the support could not be used by a person who was a tenant of another property. In view of the signals from borrowers, including the numerous situations in which the borrower decides to rent to a third party a larger apartment, which it owns, and itself moves to a smaller apartment in order to reduce costs and thus fulfil its obligation arising from a residential loan, this change seems to be justified by all means. In particular, the project also introduces new solutions for both the amount and duration of support for vulnerable borrowers. It is proposed to extend the duration of this aid from 18 months to 36 months and to increase the maximum amount of support from 1.5 thousand. PLN to 2,000. PLN per month, which means that the borrower will be able to receive as much as 72 thousand. PLN in 3 years. Both the longer duration and the amount of monthly aid will certainly constitute a very important relief for those in financial difficulties. The project introduces, as I said, a new legal instrument, which is a loan to repay the remaining part of the debt in the case of the sale of a credit property at a price lower than the value of the residential loan obligation. In view of cases where the credit value exceeds the credit value of the immovable property, it is appropriate to provide a legal solution which will allow lending of the remainder of the debt. We believe that the funds contained in the Support Fund can be used for this purpose. Here the maximum loan amount will be 72 thousand. zł. Where the loan is repaid in foreign currency, the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego will make an appropriate translation at the sales rate announced by the National Bank of Poland on the day before the transfer of funds to the creditor. The borrower will also be able to apply for a profession by the creditor, which will be a pledge to grant a loan to repay the debt. Receiving a promenade will make it much easier for the borrower to decide on the sale of a credit property. The Support Fund is expected to operate indefinitely and will at any time be part of assistance to borrowers who have financial problems. Here I would like to stress - what follows from the draft law - that in this respect the law refers both to those borrowers who have loans in zlotys and to those who have loans denominated or indexed to foreign currencies, so the Support Fund is a support mechanism for all borrowers who have housing loans and are in a difficult situation within the meaning of the law. As regards the modification in relation to the original wording of the Act, the provisions relating to the deadline for the submission of an application for support or a loan for repayment of debt are also amended, reflecting the continuity and long-term operation of the Creditor Support Fund. The proposal provides for a modification of the content of the request for support. All these changes are designed to improve the procession over it. The content of the request for support will include the identification of the contract and, in the case of a loan application, additional documents relating to the sale of the immovable property or the preliminary sale of the real estate in the case of a request for a promessal. It was decided to regulate in detail the procedure for submission and examination of the application by the creditor. This kind of regulation results from signals that, due to too general rules on the procedure so far, this process has been extended over and over again during the submission of the application. An extremely important amendment introduced by the law is the appeal procedure against the creditor's decision to reject the borrower's application for support. These decisions have not yet been verified in any way. Their scale is even difficult to estimate. The draft law provides that in the event of the creditor's rejection of the application, the borrower may request additional verification from the Fund Board. This procedure, in conjunction with the normative definition of the documents that can be requested from the applicant, ensures that the creditor will pay for the period of undue non-support, significantly strengthens the position of borrowers who will have an instrument to verify the creditor's decision that the support has not been provided. The project introduces mechanisms to support the voluntary restructuring of loans indexed or denominated in currencies other than the currency in which the borrower obtains income by creditors. And these solutions are intended to help creditors obtain measures to carry out the restructuring. In order for the creditor to be able to obtain support from the fund, the restructuring will have to consist in a change in the restructuring debt, which is an indexed or denominated loan, in the currency in which the borrower obtains the income, i.e. in the vast majority it will, of course, be a zloty loan. It will be the creditor's task to propose the borrower appropriate conditions for restructuring and to obtain its consent to carry out the restructuring. The restructuring support will consist in the transfer of funds from the Restructuring Fund to the creditor, which will be the difference between the balance sheet value of the restructuring debt and the balance sheet value of the restructuring debt, i.e. the difference between the value of the old and the new loan. Where the creditor fails to do so or if there is no agreement between the creditor and the borrower, the funds from the Restructuring Fund shall not be allocated to the creditor. The creditor will be able to use these funds for restructuring operations in the field of loans denominated or indexed to foreign currencies. It should be stressed that restructuring will be voluntary. It is also worth adding that the creditor will be able to apply for restructuring funds for a period of 6 months, up to the amount of payments he made in the quarter preceding that half-year. This solution, which also disciplines and urges funds from the Restructuring Fund to be used, is included in the draft law. This means that if the creditor does not use the funds up to the amount of the contractual payments concluded within the six months following the quarter in which the payment was made, the Council of the Creditor Support Fund will be able to divide these funds into support for the voluntary restructuring of other creditors. In order to obtain funds, the creditor will conclude a debt restructuring agreement with the borrower. [[I don't understand any of this, and especially the French don't understand any of it.]] The Financial Supervision Commission will be able to issue a recommendation in which it will determine the recommended order of restructuring of individual housing loans. It is therefore assumed that the ranking of the restructuring order should be based on the data of banking supervision. It is worth noting that the creditor will not be able to receive support for voluntary restructuring in the event that the total amount of the capital of the residential loan after the restructuring was used to determine the rate of the currency lower than the rate used for the payment of the loan. In view of the changes envisaged by the Law on the mechanism for granting support as well as the introduction of new instruments supporting borrowers, the draft Act provides for changes in the functioning of the Fund. As I said, two funds will be allocated: the Support Fund and the Restructuring Fund, which is to provide this funding for the process of supporting voluntary restructuring of the housing portfolio denominated or indexed to foreign currencies. In our view, the financing of the sub-fund should be carried out through two independent mechanisms, given the differences between its objectives and the recipients. Changes in the functioning of the Creditors Support Fund have led to changes in the composition of the Fund Board. This has also been mapped with regard to the bill. The Power Facility of the Support Fund will be similar to the current Power Facility of the Creditors Support Fund. It is worth pointing out that the quarterly contribution will not be able to exceed the product value of the balance sheet value of the mortgage-backed loan portfolio, intended to finance non-economic or farm-based loans, a housing purpose whose late payment of capital or interest exceeds 90 days and a rate of 1%. We have here a regulation in detail expressed in the bill. Ladies and gentlemen! The Act proposes a substantial change concerning the beneficiaries of the aid, which is intended to encourage the use of this support instrument. [[He won't encourage you, Minister.]] It is proposed to amend the rules on the recovery of the aid granted from the Fund. The beneficiary of the aid will be required to begin repayment of the funds received in the month following the month in which 2 years have elapsed since the last tranche of support or payment of the loan. The funds received will be reimbursed in 144 equal monthly instalments paid up to the 15th day of each month for the fund's account. The above period linked to the zero rate of interest rate of the instalments will ensure full recovery of the aid received and the unification will not be too heavy a burden on the beneficiary's household budgets. On the other hand, the incentive scheme for the beneficiary is to introduce an institution, a completely new legal institution, to redeem the remaining amount in the event of repayment of 100 instalments in time. The project introduces solutions to the Fund Board's acquisition of information on the scale of requests for support and negative decisions in this regard, i.e. a tool to verify how these solutions will work in practice. At the same time, the Fund Board undertakes to provide periodic information on the functioning of the Fund to the Minister responsible for Financial Institutions, who will in turn inform the State, the relevant Parliamentary Committee each year. We will have knowledge, you will know how these legal solutions are applied in practice. The proposed regulation will not have any financial implications for the public finance sector, including the state budget. Supporting instruments will be financed by creditors' contributions. The implementation of the tasks imposed on Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego in turn will be financed by the commission remuneration to be paid to the bank. At the same time, the project provides for a revision of the Corporate Income Tax Act, which aims to ensure the tax neutrality of the proposed regulations. Payments to the restructuring fund will not be able to exceed 0,5% on a quarterly basis the balance sheet value of the portfolio of loans subject to restructuring, every quarter with the value of the portfolio of loans of about PLN 155 billion, gives the amount of PLN 800 million. This means that creditors will not bear a higher burden than about PLN 3200 million per year. At the same time, it should be pointed out that on the date of the entry into force of the Act, the funds of the Creditors' Support Fund, these existing funds, will become funds of the Support Fund, and we know that these funds amount to several hundred million zlotys. The project provides for the entry into force of the Act on basic forms of support for borrowers as of 1 January 2018. For me there is no doubt - and this is the intention of the President of the Republic of Poland - that this project and the legal solutions contained in it clearly improve the legal situation of this borrower, which is in a difficult situation, justifying the application of mechanisms expressed by financial support for those needs which will be met by the Support Fund and, as far as the Restructuring Fund is concerned, we have a real tool to strengthen the process of voluntary restructuring. We have an appeal procedure, we have legal solutions that are undoubtedly beneficial to borrowers, and therefore, High Izbo, I ask for a positive assessment of the project submitted and for it to be adopted in the proposed form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u4	Thank you very much, Minister. I wanted to say that today's session is attended by a children's tour from Secondary School Complex No. 1 in. Jan Szczepanik in Krosno. We welcome you very much. [[Applause]] We also welcome children from the Primary School of the Varsovia Foundation in Wilanów, class III b. Welcome. [[Applause]] And now we're getting it right. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Łukasz Schreiber, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u5	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a position on the draft law amending the law on the support of borrowers in financial difficulties who have taken up a housing loan. We're actually meeting here about the events that happened on black thursday. Many until 15 January 2015 have associated black Thursday with the events of 1929, after that time it is not so obvious. It was then that the Swiss National Bank abandoned the policy of defending the minimum exchange rate of the euro for francs, the course in the case of Poland went from PLN 3.54 to PLN 4.30 the next day, reaching even PLN 5.20. Today this course is 3 zł, an averaged course 3.70 zł, but the problem remained, because the drama of people who buying their dream apartment, who decided on it, remained in a very difficult situation, is. Of course, at least three groups can be distinguished from all those who have taken up a housing loan. You can talk about those who, when deciding on very expensive investments, decided on some policy that would allow them to save money. There were those who did not buy a very expensive apartment, but had opportunities and again decided to take a risk. And there were also those who found themselves in a zoning situation, who were deceived, who were told that there was virtually no risk, and who, at the same time, were able to obtain a dream loan in order to get a dream apartment, could only obtain a loan in francs. And undoubtedly, this project, although it is not perfect, although it does not solve a lot of problems, can help those who are in the worst situation. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It must be said that the President of the Republic, taking on the commitment he made in the campaign, also took responsibility for what this project looks like. Our discussion today about this project, the proposed solutions certainly deserve attention. After all, today also exists, as has already been said, the Creditor Support Fund. Not much, there are even funds on this fund - it is 600 million PLN. It is not very much, but it is not very little. Only a horse with a row of those who know the borrower who used these funds. [[I do.]] As at the end of 2016, it was 2%. funds used. 2%. There is no doubt, therefore, that the solutions referred to here by the Minister, the solutions which make it more possible to restructure these loans, will support those who have lost their jobs, that there will be a double increase in the minimum income for applying for support, that the possibility of monthly support has been increased from PLN 1500 to PLN 2 000. zł and a few other solutions are valuable and deserve, as I said, attention. But, of course and understandable, few in this Chamber will welcome the project. He will not be welcomed by those who call for radical solutions. He will not be welcomed by the politicians of the biggest opposition party who today turn into Yanosiks... [[He's gonna say it was the Platform politicians who passed it.]] ...and give away everything very willingly to everyone. [[That's what Morawiecki does.]] He will surely be pleased to see all those who have taken up this loan who are in this difficult situation. Moreover, there is also, what is worth mentioning, some kind of impudence of banks, which even this project dares to criticize, although in fact it is annual support, as has already been said, it will be ok. PLN 3200 million. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Despite all these reservations, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, of course, is in favour of directing the presidential project to further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u6	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Platform. [[Speech outside the microphone]] I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Allow the Member to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u7	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today, 13 December 2017 comes to me... [[October.]] ...present the position of the Civic Platform club on the presidential draft amendment to the law on the support of borrowers in financial difficulties who have taken up a housing loan. Today, 2.5 years after the election campaign Andrzej Duda, 2 years after the election campaign of PiS, after the election campaign in which PiS and Andrzej Duda promised real help to Poles. And what do we have today? We received a project that assumes among others. raising the minimum income for applying for support, reducing the rate of the instalment to household income, increasing the support by PLN 500, extending the support period from 18 to 36 months, Minister talked about it for a very long time, etc., etc. But these are cosmetic changes -- we extend here, we lower here, we lift here. It looks like treating a serious and embarrassing illness with powder. That's not what you promised in the election campaign. You promised real and real help. So? You cheated and lied. [[Applause]] These changes are minor, among others. It's because you can't charge the banks with these changes. Why? The banks can't handle it? Yeah, because you charged the banks $5 billion that they had to deposit on the failing SKOKs. [[Applause]] Because of that, everyone can see bank charges, bank costs are rising. People already see that once there were no charges, e.g. for cash payment with an ATM card, and today they have to pay 5 zlotys. I mean, after these changes, they'd pay 10 zlotys? They can't stand it. And it's not the only raises that are in Poland. The prices of goods and services are rising to the head on the neck. You put 500 zlotys in your right pocket, and in your left pocket you draw 500, 600, 700, 1000 zlotys, more and more. [[Voice from the room: Free, free.]] [[Don't get ahead of yourself.]] These increases have increased the risk of poverty. And I'm not rushing. The latest GUS data. [[Listen up.]] The risk of poverty for lonely people was 41.6% in 2008. and dropped during the Platform's reign to 30.8% And by 2016, one year of your rule has risen again to 32%. For single people with dependent children, the rate fell during the Platform's reign from 51.9% up to 43.2% And for a year your government has risen again to 47.3%. [[Applause]] For two dependants - 22,4% , during the period of the Platform's government drop to 15.6% And for a year of your governments, it's up to 16.2% again. These are real data. [[Applause]] These are the effects of your irresponsible and incompetent governments. So what can be done when there is no longer any real opportunity to help Poles? You can fool, you can cheat. After all, the average Pole does not need to understand the mechanisms that are in force here, the mechanisms of the legislative procedure. Who will notice that today's project was brought in after 2.5 years on August 1st of this year? Who's gonna notice that the President's Office is gonna leave a small deficiency in this project? Who will notice that the Sejm Office will notice these shortcomings after more than a month? Who will notice that the President's Office is clear to anyone who knows the legislative procedure, that the deficiencies will be completed after the next month? Who will again see that the Marshal of the Sejm will put this project on the agenda this morning, after everything has ended, when there is no media in the gallery, so that no one will notice. So? It will be like the previous projects - it will go to the subcommittee, we will debate for weeks, months, remove errors, make amendments... [[Voice from the room: At night.]] ... There's gonna be some weird entrances that you opened in this bill, and it's gonna take months anyway... [[You have better laws at night. For the night, it'll be an election ordination.]] ...and the next few months. That's how it's gonna be another time and you're gonna chase that bunny all the way to the election campaign. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the hope, as your classic says, that the dark people will not notice that the dark people will buy it. [[Voice from the room: 8 years.]] And you promised real help, and what? You cheated and lied to the Poles. [[Applause]] [[But what's eight years? When did the franc course fall?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u8	Thank you, sir. I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u9	Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It would be easiest to file a proposal to reject this project, but it would be a shortcut and such a saying: we would spare politicians. We're not gonna do that because the bill is gonna be a curse not only for the president, but for every power - the one who was, and the one who is. This project will not allow the Polish authorities to forget that banks once destroyed many thousands of Polish families. This project will be a curse on all of us here. I'm talking about that so we're aware of that. Not like this, Mr. President, it was meant to be. That's not what we agreed. And this is also a lesson for all politicians: if you promise, keep your word. In the Polish political class we have an interesting phenomenon, here at our meeting today we have a wonderful phenomenon: when politicians are in opposition, they say with care, love, mercy, they say it was gold loans, not currency loans, and when they become a party of power, they have amnesia, they are anesthetic, they are frozen, they talk about problems. When, gentlemen, are you telling the truth? That's what the Platform said. I mean, the Platform says different today, and that's not what it said when it was in power, and that's not what the Law and Justice say today, and that's not what it said when it was still an opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, you can no longer be trusted. That's why citizens no longer believe in the political class... [[And who are you?]] ...they don't believe banks, they take money from banks, they close their accounts, civil disobedience begins. [[Who are you? You're a politician.]] Court. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone is being sent to court. So what? We all know that these courts are helpless. Ladies and gentlemen, we know very well, and I think it is time to recover from this after 2 years, that in the Polish Chamber there will not be a solution to this problem once... there will be no solution to this problem. Let's call it by name. Let's not be afraid that we're cowards, because that's how it is. Moreover, we know very well that we are not even able to change the Civil Code to make it easier for these people to fight a real fight in court. What you're proposing today, Mr. President, is fun. continue to make allowances, droplets. And I ask whether the President has tried to persuade the first President of the Supreme Court to submit a motion for the Supreme Court to decide in the entire Civil Chamber on matters relating to more divergent case law in franchise cases, because if the Supreme Court had made a clear statement in the composition of the entire Chamber, it would have been in accordance with Article. 61 § 6 of the Supreme Court Act many court cases would be really settled and simplified. [[Applause]] [[That's where I agree.]] Why isn't Mr. President doing this? It's been two years. Why don't you go to the Constitutional Court? This is about the Civil Code, Art. [[Only there is no tribunal now, sir, there is no tribunal.]] ...so-called. judicial valorisation: In the event of a significant change in the purchasing power of money after the establishment of the obligation, the court may, after considering the interests of the parties, in accordance with the principles of social life, change the amount or method of fulfillment of the money provision, even if it is laid down in the decision or contract. This article would have been an invaluable additional tool in the judicial fight if it had not been for Article. 13 of the Act, it's about the Civil Code: Art. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 and Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). 358 The Civil Code does not apply to bank loans and amounts deposited in bank accounts. Ladies and gentlemen, this must be removed as unconstitutional. But did the president do it? Ladies and gentlemen, you have the opportunity of the President. As we can see, he's not doing well with the bill, and this bill is the same as before. Then speak to the President at the tribunal. [[Is there a tribunal? I don't know if there's a tribunal. I'm not sure.]] And, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that your concern for the franchise is great and you will support the request for a committee of inquiry on the issue of the franchise. We have already collected 34 signatures, 46 righteous will meet, if there are no more, we will also act. All clubs, and PiS, and PO, and Modern, we invite you because this is a citizen's request. Back it up and let's solve this problem because it's about time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u10	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Piotr Misja, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u11	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern I have the honour and pleasure to present our position towards the presidential bill amending the law on the support of borrowers in financial difficulties who have taken up a housing loan and the Act on corporate income tax. The primary objective of this law is to change the mechanism for providing assistance to persons who, as a result of difficulties in repaying their foreign currency loans, are in financial difficulty while introducing a new instrument to support voluntary restructuring of loans denominated or indexed to currencies other than those in which borrowers receive income. For a long time, there have been requests for amendments to the 2015 Act on the support of borrowers in financial difficulties who have taken up a housing loan. Since the start of the operation of the Loan Support Fund established by the Act in 2016, difficulties in the effective use of the funds collected in it have been noted. As the Minister has already mentioned, the Fund currently has approximately PLN 600 million, and according to information on the use of the Credit Support Fund as at 31 December 2016, only 481 support contracts were registered in 2016 for a total amount of 10 698 000. zł. This means that the funds of the Fund for its main task have been used only less than 2% by the end of 2016. Comments to this law were submitted, inter alia. The Supreme Court, the National Judicial Council and the Confederation of Leviathan, but apart from a few technical observations, none of the institutions consulted questioned the substantive layer of this law. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Just now, my previous speaker spoke of the necessity of setting up a committee of inquiry. I think that, under the current circumstances, it would be worthwhile for you to also support the setting up of a committee of inquiry for the SKOKs. I would like to remind you that over PLN 5 billion has already been paid out of the Banking Guarantee Fund only to cover the losses of dozens of lost cash. I would like to add that the project that the Minister was just talking about involves aid in the amount of a maximum of 3 billion. If you wish, honourable Members and Members of the PiS, to account for what has been happening in the SKOKs over a period of several years, [[Applause]] Perhaps the Poles, the French would have much more money for their expenses... [[Voice from the hall: The Blunt Mind.]] ...and it could somehow help them in their difficult financial situation. Nevertheless, the Modern, knowing and understanding the problems of vulnerable borrowers, recommends that the High House refer this draft law to further work in committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u12	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u13	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the law on the support of borrowers, print No 1863. The project submitted pursues two main objectives. Firstly, it amends the financial support mechanism granted to persons in financial difficulties while paying the instalments of the housing loan. Secondly, it introduces a new so-called instrument. voluntary restructuring of loans denominated or indexed to currencies other than those in which the borrowers receive income. With regard to the first objective, the first amendment, it should be noted that there is a minimal but loosening of the requirements imposed on borrowers seeking assistance in the repayment of loans. When discussing the presidential project 2 years ago, we talked about the fact that the statutory assistance provided for the borrowers is too small, too symbolic, and the interested ones themselves, called the franchise, even said that the law adopted at that time would not help them, and perhaps it would be better if it were not at all. As it turns out after 2 years of operation of the Act, actually in 2016 a very small group of people, i.e. only 2% of the funds have been used. The current project assumes that support can be obtained, as has been the case so far, by a borrower who has lost his job and can be granted if the value of the DtI exceeds 50% - was 60% - and at twice the amount of income resulting from the Social Assistance Act per member of the family. Support may also be granted where the borrower is a tenant of another property. This is a good solution, because indeed many borrowers who have found themselves in a difficult situation have leased their homes to have more money to pay off these often sneaky loans. The duration of the aid is also extended. And here - as the predecessors have already said, and also the Minister - the maximum amount of support is increasing to 72 000. over a period of 3 years. The project also provides for the granting of a loan to cover the remainder of the debt if the amount obtained from the sale of the property has not covered the entire undertaking. It is also important that the project provides for partial remission of the undertaking. In order to implement the second of the proposed instruments, i.e. voluntary restructuring of loans, let's call it, in foreign currencies, although they have never been in foreign currencies, the Creditor Support Fund is divided into two new Funds: Supporting and Restructuring. The creditor's task will be to collect certain funds at the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego in the Restructuring Fund, as well as to propose restructuring conditions for the borrower and obtain his consent, and the creditor will be able to apply to Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego for restructuring funds for a period of 6 months up to the amount of his payments. These quite detailed arrangements adopted in the project are clearly due to the desire for banks to evade their responsibility for the situation as regards housing loans. Therefore, the current proposal even sets out the necessary documents that banks may request from applicants, as well as the whole procedure for submitting and examining applications from borrowers, including the guarantee that the creditor will pay for the period of undue non-support. The draft also introduces an appeal procedure and imposes certain principles of cooperation between the creditor, the Board of the Fund and the Financial Supervision Commission. In conclusion, it should be stressed that the project, however, extends the possibilities of aid to borrowers. However, I have doubts as to whether the current proposals will be sufficiently satisfactory, especially for the franchise. Besides, each of them has a different financial situation. We're thinking, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and I would like to stress strongly that banks must feel responsible for this difficult situation with borrowers, because not all banks have cheated, not all banks have raised customers. I therefore believe that the rules in this respect should be more restrictive in relation to banks. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u14	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Ireneusz Gains, the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u15	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the presidential draft law amending the law on the support of borrowers in financial difficulties who have taken up a housing loan and the Act on corporate income tax. Among the main internal functions of the state, alongside ensuring public order and security, we can highlight the protection of the health and property of citizens. The proposal for a revised law should further implement one of these functions, namely the protection of borrowers' assets, and restore public confidence in regulations that protect citizens from unfair lending practices. Compared to 2015, the number of people with outstanding commitments has increased. This is 2322 000 at the end of 2016. of which 1790 thousand. they are people with outstanding non-credit obligations, and more than 1 million people are the number of people with outstanding credit obligations. The bill submitted by the President... [[It's a rewrite.]] ...comes out to those borrowers, those households that have trouble paying off those liabilities. I think that these regulations that have been proposed, about which, in a moment, are, to some extent, a helping hand. However, it must be said that as far as the whole sphere of foreign exchange loans is concerned, so-called. In the two thousand years since the beginning of the two thousand years we have dealt with a great and perhaps even gigantic international fraud. Large financial corporations caused, among other things, the networks. in other countries such as Hungary, Central Europe, but above all in Poland. This mechanism was already known in Spain and Australia. Nevertheless, in Poland there was a huge thing, a scandalous thing. Over 700,000. Households received toxic loans, which caused that many people after the crash in 2008 were not able to repay these loans. There's been a wave of suicide. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a thing that is a huge staggering wound to this day in the social body, in the economic body of Poland. I think that the President, in his election campaign, as well as the Law and Justice, declaring his aid to this group... This is over 2 million people, about 2.5 million people, all people, as if we counted these households. Today, this group has decreased slightly for various reasons, but it still needs to be said that this fraud has not been corrected because no currency loans have been granted. These were gold credits, where in the contract they were given zlotys, and then in the repayment schedule they came to the payment of the instalment in Swiss franc. How did this happen? On public television there was, please excuse the term, a promoted and bred financial expert, a guy named Richard Petru, [[Applause]] who later became famous for being the leader of the modern formation and got into the Sejm as a parliamentarian, supposedly in the interests of the citizens. It's all Mr. Richard Petru. I think you know he's Mr. Balcerowicz's favorite and parent. Ladies and gentlemen, there wasn't one in this case because a lot of people have been fooled by this fishing rod. On the other hand, Mr Ryszard Petru, as far as we know, as well as from his statement of property, just before the crash in 2008 his currency loan was converted into gold, avoided this danger, which threatened millions of Poles. Ladies and gentlemen, millions, thousands of crooks and bank bankers. They're all kinds of agencies, banks' representations, which urged people to take these loans, to borrow these loans, claiming that they're the only ones they have, because they don't have the credit capacity to get credit in zlotys. Unfortunately, I also have to say that at that time the watchfulness of the Law and Justice Club was dormant. I will say, here I will remind you of the recommendation of the S of June 2007 for financial banking supervision, where Parliamentary Club Law and Justice had a negative reaction to this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] as to the limitation of borrowing. My time is running out, but I think this bill goes against people who are in financial difficulties today with their credit obligations. We ask as the Circle of Members of the Free and Solidarni to direct her to further work on the committee. We will support this bill so that it gets the best shape possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u16	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the list of questions? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Platform. Question time - one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u17	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Here, in the case of this bill, the amendment of our Platform, PiS and President Act - you speak with one voice. You both left the franchise on ice. You promised the president in the election campaign: cast your vote for me, and I'll make the credit stop poisoning your lives. This was promised by the presidential candidate Andrzej Duda. So? Why did you, Mr. President, play people's feelings often in really tragic situations? They trusted you, and this project is nothing like pre-election promises. There's not gonna be any credit conversions. There won't even be a refund of spreads that were promised before. In fact, this is only an amendment to the law adopted by the Civic Platform in the previous term. Mr. President! We ask for a really big help for the franchise, not for a light bill that comes down to one thing: get along with the banks yourself. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u18	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Janusz Silchoń, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u19	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I have a question for the Minister of Finance as to whether he is aware of the consequences of the implementation of budgetary assumptions in terms of inflation and interest rates. Because these assumptions show that the interest rate is to be consistent with the inflation rate. What does that mean in practice? This means an increase in the interest rate to the assumed level of inflation, i.e. 2.3%, assuming that inflation is indeed going to be at this level, because it can be assumed to be slightly higher today. But that means a 50% increase in loan interest for borrowers. That means that the family that took out a ten0,000-dollar housing loan. zł, paying approx. 1 000 today. PLN, paying credit, capital and interest, will pay several hundred PLN more a month. Are you aware that most Polish families are unable to withstand such a burden? Shouldn't you reflect a little bit and use fiscal instruments a little bit more, even start using them? [[♪ The bell ♪]] We come back with a VAT reduction, we come back with free amounts when it comes to income tax. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u20	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u21	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The president promised during the election campaign to restructure the loans. Prime Minister Szydło ensured the banquet. So? It's been two years and you're still promising. You tricked the Poles. What kind of aid is it to borrowers if they can receive 2 000 support within a maximum of 3 years. A month's worth of zloty? And how does this apply to the credit costs already incurred? You're helping, but you have to give it back. And there is still a problem, and the problem is still unsolved. It's like we're paying off a loan. The implementation of the tasks imposed on Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego will be financed by commission remuneration. Question is, who's gonna pay the commission? Frankowicz asked banks to take part in the risk of borrowers. Creditors were persuaded at banks to borrow in francs. The customers weren't really aware of taking credit, but the bankers were perfectly predicting what would happen in the future. It's just an ordinary weed. The capital portion that was paid out monthly by borrowers, [[♪ The bell ♪]] should be deducted from borrowing And then the debt would go down. Minister, do you support banks or borrowers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u22	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jan Szewczak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u23	Dear Marshal! Minister! I get the impression that we're looking at this proposal that we're pulling something out of a cylinder that doesn't even look like a rabbit. In this regard, does such a law, e.g. should not have 3/5 in this case, because it concerns a large group of people and serious amounts? [[That's how to distance yourself from the president...]] Minister, is it worth, even with good intentions, having some noble ideas to legalize many issues that raise the courts as unlawful issues? I am not only talking about the issue of abusive clauses, but there are already Supreme Court judgments even in this case, the first sentence. The question is also so purely rational: Is it worth creating a law that no one really wants? Because as we hear, neither the association of injured borrowers wants it, nor the Polish Bank Association wants it. So who exactly are we here to make this law for? Thirdly, the question is whether it is worth punishing. I'm not such a big fan of the banking business, at least some of the activities, but if it's worth punishing those banks that didn't give these loans, and now they're going to have to allocate these funds to the banks, [[♪ The bell ♪]] for whom greed has clouded the minds? There are a lot of questions in this matter. I think we'll get back to that at the committee meeting. I have seven, eight more questions. One more question maybe...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u24	Go on, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u25	Okay, one last question to the applicants. Could the Minister point out to me the countries in which this problem has already been resolved by one or another form of translation and in which the banking system has collapsed...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u26	Mr. President, it's already been 0.5 minutes...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u27	...or has the bank's stability deteriorated? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u28	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Anna Wasilewska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u29	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! The draft law prepared by the President concerns amendments to the law on the support of borrowers in financial difficulties. Good words. This is helping those people who took out a loan for their apartment. The purpose of the amendments is to assist those persons who hold residential loans indexed or denominated in the Swiss franc currency. This project is intended to encourage banks to offer borrowers a trade-off. However, will banks be willing to remove indexing or denomination clauses from credit agreements that the courts have already declared inadmissible? This amendment does not address the main problem of borrowers, which is related to the existence of prohibited clauses in the credit agreements concluded. It is these records that allow banks to continue to convert loans at the unilateral Swiss franc rate set by them and benefit from this financial advantage. After all, the indexing clauses entered into by the banks as a provision of model contracts were explicitly recognised by the Court of Competition and Consumer Protection as non-compliant clauses. How are the amendments to the Act to changes in the provisions in the agreements concluded with banks? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u30	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u31	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! As we can see, writing laws to the President is not going well, it is not the strongest of them. Maybe it's worth confronting here. There's already been a fair course, there's been a discussion about spreads. Today we are really vacuuming the Civic Platform project. But it turns out that this rule that if we break the thermometer, it doesn't have a fever, it's still alive. Ladies and gentlemen, the fever is still there. In fact, the President, using his authority and office, maybe he should focus on two important issues. First of all, it's a paycheck. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are talking about here today is not a question of the franchise. This is about the relationship between the consumer and the financial institution. And this is it, ladies and gentlemen, not just about the franchise. This is about any consumer who signs any deal with a bank, financial institution, insurance. Let's look at it this way. It takes really smart and reasonable action here, the President's authority, to literally form an alliance with the UOKiK, a financial spokesman, to bring the Supreme Court to this end. These are civil rights. The issue concerns franchises in a minimal way. It concerns consumers, citizens. Let's look at it this way. Then it will turn out that we are able to change this fever systemically, not necessarily by law, using what is in Polish law today, and good will, also courts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u32	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u33	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! In my speech, I mentioned certain gates. I would like to ask you a question about, as it is said here, the issue of "or journals." Namely the submitted project changes the definition of housing credit. The definition remains the same, while we change the definitions. So far, the Housing Credit Act has provided a mortgage on the subject of the loan, i.e. We're buying an apartment, we're taking out a loan, and we're setting up a mortgage on this apartment. We have a different definition in the proposal presented by your president. An apartment loan is only a mortgage-backed loan. Orlen's taking mortgage-backed loans, too. Who's the door open for? Who's gonna use this bill besides the people who took loans for their apartments? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u34	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Sławomir Piechota, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u35	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I think one such simple and fundamental question is how much this debate today is real, true, and how much it is another aspect of the game of appearances. After all, more than two years ago, we were shown files in which the laws were to lie. In fact, after the victory, the magic wand of the winner was supposed to make this world better every day. It's been two years, and the trampling continues. Over a year ago, the president filed his original bill. What's wrong with him? Where was he stashed? Why isn't he being considered? Why is the debate not on the basis of that project? How much longer is that project gonna be? In this context, will this debate today lead to any change at all? The speech of the PiS club representative was basically short, but the contention of the scoundrel that the president seems to think that what he's doing isn't really going to the goal that today's winners were so loudly knocked off. And the second point, a matter as detailed as the 72,000. aid in the form of credit is a real aid to those who have fallen into a credit trap. How does this apply to different prices in the country? After all, there are places where probably 72,000. may be a significant part of the relief, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But there are places where it's just a dozen square meters of apartments that are sold in desperation to free themselves from loans. This is another example of how we tread among appearances. Let's put an end to appearances, let's tell these people: promises with promises, but with help nothing will be done. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u36	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u37	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Gentlemen of Ministers! The bill does not solve very many problems that the borrowers are looking forward to solving, especially the borrowers of France. Simplifying the procedures for using the support fund may be a good direction, but this project does not solve the growing problems and expectations of Poles. Many expert opinions point to the fact that the project is inconsistent, which may have a counterproductive effect on most borrowers, which will not be supported by an increase in loan rates and may even be unfair. Why didn't the President try, as promised, to come up with a comprehensive proposal for residential borrowers? Is there still a chance? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u38	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u39	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! I want to remind you of two dates. On 23 July 2015, I had the honour of presenting on behalf of the Civic Platform a draft law on specific restructuring rules so-called. foreign exchange loans. It didn't work. The PiS state then said that the exchange rate on the day of the loan should be converted. On 10 September 2015, I presented the bill we are talking about today, i.e. the amendment of the Act on the Creditors' Support Fund. We're the ones who prepared this project. You've been saying all along that these are bad projects, that they don't solve problems. So, what's today? You're not solving any problems today. Work is underway in the committee, in the subcommittee, on foreign exchange loans. We, too, have our opinions and our projects on this matter. It is as if you were returning to 2006 when Prime Minister Gilowska said that Poles, when taking currency loans, have the right to take risks. Today, Mr Duda is risking his reputation without presenting any project. It is as Mrs Hrynkiewicz said yesterday: Poles can leave. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You showed, Poles solve these cases themselves. The president only succeeded in the solar system bill. We will work on it because we take Poles seriously, but you have done nothing. You broke all your promises, it's not honorable. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u40	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Isabella Leszczyn, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u41	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! Minister, please tell the President that five PiS members out of 235 are interested in the legislative work of the President for the franchise. [[Applause]] Let us remind: I declare that if I become president, in the first 3 months of my office I will submit a bill in Parliament which will solve this burning problem of millions of Poles who are in a desperate situation because of the banks and because of the complete inactivity of the Polish state. I believe that loans in francs can be converted according to the rate at which they were taken. It was, of course, a presidential candidate for Andrzej Duda. What President Duda does, we all see. Minister, please tell the President that we see that he defended the franchise just as he defended the Constitutional Tribunal. I think this is the first time I'll agree with Jarosław Kaczyński. Take care of foreign affairs, Mr. President. Minister Waszczykowski already ruined everything there, so nothing can be ruined. Let him handle foreign affairs. The question to the Minister is this: Minister, why have you misled the High House, claiming that the Civil Platform Act, which the President is powdering, pretending he's not doing anything at all, was [[♪ The bell ♪]] the possibility of redemption of the loan to the borrower? That possibility, Minister, is, you need to know the bill that is being amended. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u42	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u43	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I think that the Minister's speech lacked perhaps the most important thing to stand here and all those who trusted the President simply to say, "I'm sorry, we tricked you." These are the facts, Minister, because all of Poland has heard that the President, whom we all respect, is our president, has made a clear promise to all the franchise that the Frankish case will be handled and these loans will be converted at the price of the withdrawal. It doesn't work. This bill is actually an insult to the French people, because in short it can be called credit on credit. I have a question for the Minister: Would you leave the Minister for the family that is in a dramatic situation at the moment, because once the loan instalment was 2 000, and at the moment it is often 4 000. or more, and you would present this project to the Minister, and would you be convinced that this is really real help to them? How can it be that the people who pay off the loan can sell their apartments at the moment, attention, but the amount obtained will unfortunately not cover the entire cost of the loan, and the Minister will say: the President has a great solution, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you get credit to pay the rest? This is a joke. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u44	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u45	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Why, Minister, in the presidential project, is the DtI ratio, i.e. the ratio of instalments to household income, reduced from 60% to 50%? This will certainly result in a disruption of the banking system and this, for obvious reasons, may cause a terrible disturbance in the system and may in the future affect the availability of housing loans for the persons concerned. I would like to ask you to make a detailed reference to this issue. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u46	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Piotr Misilo, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u47	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It would be ironic and even funny if it weren't so tragic that it was Mr. Janusz Szewczak, the chief economist of the SKOKs, who spoke on behalf of the PiS. [[Applause]] I think you're insulting all Poles with this speech. After that, Minister, as the Polish National Foundation has spent or plans to spend 600 million PLN on campaigns such as, in quotes, the Righteous Courts, after Minister Macierewicz spent more than 1 billion PLN more than market prices on VIP aircraft, after the PiS government spends millions of PLN on limousines, which later crashes, I wanted to ask you, Minister, and the Ministry of Finance, how much of the state budget will go to the franchise. As far as I'm concerned, it's going to be zero. So I'd really like to ask that instead of wasting money. All of us, taxpayers, Poles, wanted to help the French people really, not ironise you towards the President in the speech we just heard, because it is unacceptable that even in an argument between the PiS camp and the President, you should ignore people who really need help. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u48	Thank you. Please, Mr Antoni Duda, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u49	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to point out to Mr Misile that he makes a distinction between speeches. Mr. Szewczak asked in his own name. The existing 2015 law on the support of borrowers does not fully meet the expectations. We are seeing clear difficulties in using the resources available for this assistance. The main reasons for such a situation appear to be too restrictive conditions to be met by the borrower and the need for full recovery of the aid. That is why the President's proposal is moving towards improved indicators for support, among others. such as a reduction in the DtI from 60% to 50%, a double increase in the amount of income resulting from the Social Assistance Act per family member or a single person, an extension of the aid period or an increase in maximum support. And the question is: How will this affect more accessibility, what percentage of those in need? Do you have any estimates? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u50	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u51	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project that we are debating today also contains some proposals for solutions for the franchise. I would therefore like to ask, Minister, whether the project has been consulted with the franchise associations, what their position is on this matter and why, if it really is, it is not attached to the project. However, I think that he is not, that there is no positive opinion on the part of the most hurt. I believe that, indeed, this group of people who have taken loans in foreign currencies, although they have never been in foreign currencies, has been the most harmed by banks, has been manipulated. In many cases, borrowers were, in colloquially speaking, subpoenaed. The opinions that came to us show that they were often actually encouraged to do so because they supposedly had no credit in gold credits. So at the entrance they were borrowers in financial difficulties. Still, believe me, I can't understand, I can't understand how banks, institutions of public trust, could put their clients at such a risk. Question: Why? [[♪ The bell ♪]] has this project not been consulted with interested parties? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u52	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Aldona Młyńczak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u53	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! As has been said many times today, but never too much, the presidential aid project for the French people considered by the Sejm is nothing like pre-election promises. There won't be a down payment at the borrowing rate, there won't even be a return on the spread, just like the candidate for president Andrzej Duda promised. A lot of the franchise believed those election promises. But it turns out it's impossible. For a few weeks, the French lived even the idea of a fair course, but also the idea did not pass. Two years after the elections, a presidential project came to the Sejm, which comes down to this: deal with yourselves, dear franchise, and get along with the banks. On the other hand, there is another draft of the president in the Parliamentary subcommittee, which was to enable the French people to return some of the spreads, which is so overstated by the banks of the franc course, but the PiS does not want to release this law from the committee, so the real help of President Duda's voters is unlikely to see. Mr. President! Aren't you just ashamed that another election promise won't be fulfilled? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u54	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Artur Gierada, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u55	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's a very bad project, and people certainly feel disappointed in it. I am surprised at the right side, because I remember the situation two years ago, I remember the Civic Platform project, which gave borrowers the opportunity to convert and bear 50 out of 50% with the bank. I remember what the right party said back then that didn't support this project. You promised a lot to the franchise in the election campaign. It's been two years - two years and no help from the President or from the right. Today, defrauded people are really looking for faults in state institutions, as the Kukiz representatives said15, and the appointment of a committee of inquiry on the issue of the inactivity of politicians often when it comes to franc credits. I wonder if there is really no guilt on the part of politicians, but we can only talk here about guilt on the one hand, because we all remember recommendation S in 2006, which was intended to ban loans in francs. At that time, the only parliamentary club that opposed the state institution, the Committee on Banking Supervision, was the Law and Justice Club. I'll just quote a few quotes. We do not share the argument put forward by the Banking Supervision Commission regarding the concern for the sustainability and financial security of borrowers and banks. The concern of the Committee on Banking Supervision seems unjustified. And probably the best: the Commission for Banking Supervision through its vague and unconvinced support in the facts of the action [[♪ The bell ♪]] Proves that he only pursues the corporate interest of the banks. [[Applause]] That's what the law and justice officials said, it's the official position of this club when we wanted to limit the granting of loans in francs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u56	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u57	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The camp of the United Right draws such an image of getting up from the knees towards the European Union, Germans, someone else there, but in relation to the problems of the franchise lies a pie, completely. The president is the loudest, sometimes even the loudest retort in this camp. I use the word "retor" on purpose, because the talking ends. If it wasn't for the Platform project two years ago, it wouldn't be anything, you couldn't even use a proverb: better rust than nothing. We have a situation where a mountain gives birth to a mouse - a classic situation like this. I'm gonna focus on that rip-off, that's what I'm gonna do. Here's the question. The situation of the person applying for support varies over the three years of receiving support. If this franchise gets up off his knees, does he lose his support or not? The answer here is important because his situation is changing. That is a very specific question, and I ask for this answer. I also ask you to answer the question about your estimates, which part of those most affected by the loans will benefit from this support. A few hundred people, a few thousand people, a dozen thousand people? What's the part of the franchise that's gonna be able to do? [[♪ The bell ♪]] As part of this support, do you think it's a little bolder to look to the future? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u58	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Agata Borowiec, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u59	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A lot has been said about the franchise, about the people who made the loans in francs. Almost 6% total debt to Polish residents, 529 thousand. housing loans in francs paid by 899 000. borrowers. Almost PLN 140 billion have to be paid back to the banks. Minister, while appreciating the President's initiative, I have a question: Does this project solve a huge problem so-called. franc credits, or is it next to this giant problem? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[They're getting off their knees. Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u60	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Leszek Skiba will be the first to answer the questions of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u61	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Cichoń asked about the budgetary assumptions, about the value of the set interest rate in 2018. I think it is worth to realise what the question is, because the question concerned whether the Ministry of Finance affects the interest rates of the National Bank of Poland. I would like to assure you that the National Bank of Poland is independent and therefore the interest rates are increased by the Monetary Policy Council. Of course... [[You recommend it.]] ...from a macroeconomic point of view, any institution that prepares macroeconomic forecasts, i.e. estimates of GDP growth, inflation levels, must make technical assumptions on the exchange rate as to the rate of growth of neighbouring economies, the German, French and European economies. One of a number of such technical assumptions is the assumption of the interest rate, because without this it is impossible to prepare the forecast. There are different techniques for preparing such forecasts. One is the assumption that these rates will be close to inflation, but as it really will be, it is difficult to say. The National Bank of Poland itself, preparing forecasts which it then presents to the Monetary Policy Council, also assumes a certain amount of interest rate. We are therefore talking here about purely technical issues, assumptions about which the Monetary Policy Council will ultimately decide later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u62	Thank you very much, Minister. And please take the floor of the Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr.Paweł Mucha. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u63	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you for your interest in a presidential initiative that will support real borrowers. This interest, judging by the number of questions you have asked, is very high. As for these questions, I will try to raise all these main points. I would like to point out that, above all, when it comes to solving problems related to existing loans denominated, indexed to foreign currencies, this challenge is not a challenge which the President of the Republic of Poland is undertaking or should only take up. As you can see, it is already presenting a second draft law in this area, because I will remind you that the presidential so-called. The spread law is still under investigation and was addressed in 2016 in August. So here, to those of you who said that the project doesn't include it, I'm still pointing out that the work on the first law is under way. What is particularly important in my view is the commitment of all the actors who should take it, i.e. Members of the Financial Stability Committee. This is a commitment, which is a commitment by the Minister of Finance, the National Bank of Poland, the Commission for Financial Supervision, the Banking Guarantee Fund, and I am also convinced that Parliament will cooperate in this respect. The design, like any project, is not perfect here. Of course you can expect improvements. The President also hopes that such improvements or modifications will occur in the course of parliamentary work. However, I cannot agree with the statement that there is no such aid or that this is a reference only to a project which Mrs Skowronska once presented to the High House. Firstly, we have this situation, as I also said, today the use of funds under the Creditor Support Fund is 2%. You said what this percentage might be when it comes to the use of these funds in the future. The Act distinguishes two situations: the situation of the Support Fund and the situation of the Restructuring Fund. With regard to the Support Fund, for me there is no doubt that these changes, which are introduced, the extension of periods, the increase of amounts, the liberalisation of criteria, are intended to make this a real support tool for those who meet the criteria of the Act, and the Supporting Fund will be such a living tool. What is particularly important is that you ask what the long-term meaning of this regulation is. The answer is also contained in the draft presented by the President - this is to be a permanent tool. This is to be a tool that will not expire, which will stabilise and which will be a support tool for all borrowers who are in financial difficulties, have lost their jobs or - there was a question about the DTI indicator - they have such a situation that they meet the conditions for support. As far as the Restructuring Fund is concerned, this is a completely new legal tool, which has not yet been in place. The Restructuring Fund is an element of... And here's a statement that I'm gonna straighten out that there's not gonna be an outrage. It is precisely the Restructuring Fund that is designed to ensure that these processes take place. So this is real aid, which is addressed to all those who fall within the scope of the law. As regards the specific questions, I point out what Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel asked. Of course, this withdrawal is the support of the mechanism by setting up a Restructuring Fund. As regards the return of spreads, work is underway in the Public Finance Committee, a subcommittee is set up. [[It's gonna stay that way.]] We expect this work to continue. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek's question about financing issues - as regards the revenue that will come from the funds collected, deposited in the fund, in terms of investing these funds, we are so convinced that this will also cover commission costs, but of course these commission costs will be financed by the fund and the fund is financed by bank contributions. But apart from the fact that there will be resources there, which will result from the fact that we are dealing with bank contributions, with the reimbursement of the aid, i.e. the reimbursement of the support provided, we also have tools for safe investment. Undoubtedly, all these elements together serve to ensure that commission costs are covered. As regards issues relating to the reference to judicial situations or any possible legalisation of irregularities, it was included in your statements, the Act refers to a specific legal instrument, the Creditor Support Fund. She doesn't legalize anything in the area where we're dealing with the cognition of common courts. In a situation where we have the possibility of a judicial course, it does not close this judicial path, in no way affects the course of ongoing judicial proceedings. We cannot talk here about any legalisation of banks' application of abusive clauses. On the other hand, there was a call on the President to take action that does not fall within his remit. We have separate judicial authority. As far as judicial authority is concerned, I can say yes... [[This will be the end of independence.]] There's an element... Of course you're the President in this area. It is taking action, you know, because it has sent draft laws to the High House that reform the justice system as well. But the subpoenas that were directed to the President's appearances to the Supreme Court are not legal, so here you cannot be met. As far as redemption issues are concerned, I may have stayed Misunderstood. I do not deny what was included in the original wording of the law. I was talking about the situation of redemption of these last 44 instalments in a situation where we have - and this is a new legal tool, a new legal instrument - the payment of 100 instalments. Then these 44 will be surrendered. With regard to the use of funds, it has been repeated whether or not we will be monitoring. The bill contains these tools. This is the information that will be addressed to the Minister of Finance, this is the information that will also be sent to the competent Parliamentary Committee. I would like to say this to you: we consider this problem to be a dynamic situation. This is a real tool, also through mechanisms that are included in the Act, as regards the non-use of the funds paid by the bank and the possibility for other eligible entities to absorb these funds, which is intended to lead to voluntary restructuring being understood as voluntary withdrawal of these loans. Of course, this situation will be monitored - the Minister of Finance, the Commission for Financial Supervision, but there will also be all those entities that are part of the Financial Stability Committee, in particular the KNF office. There was a question from Mrs Ewa Kołodziej - I am sorry, I do not mention everyone, but some of the questions have been replicated in different areas - on the issue of reducing the level of DTI from 60% to 50%. This is a favorable solution for the borrower. This is a situation such that from the higher threshold which it authorised, we enter a threshold lower by 10 percentage points, which of course extends the group of beneficiaries of this aid. And we want this group of beneficiaries to be as broad as possible. [[Make a financial balance.]] [[Keep your voice down.]] [[Why? Because you don't understand?]] As regards the issues of discussions or arrangements with stakeholders, I would like to stress that the Act was consulted with all entities that are part of the Financial Stability Committee: it was consulted with the Ministry of Finance, it was consulted with the National Bank of Poland, it was consulted with the Bank Guarantee Fund. The KNF communications, the NBP's communications, the Minister of Finance's communication confirm the consultations and findings that have been made in the course of the project. In the course of the project, I also met many times with representatives of the environment of people who have loans denominated or indexed to foreign currencies. There was also a question about the bank law association. Not only in the Seym halls, we held a meeting not only during the meetings of the Committee on Public Finance and the subcommittee, but also at the Presidential Palace. There was my personal meeting, and there was a meeting of my colleagues, the staff of the President's Chancellery - these were the work that preceded the direction of the President's initiative. But such conversations were and the voices that were falling there, we tried to take into account. Ladies and gentlemen, of course the President is fulfilling his promise, as he pointed out, to take up this problem. We have a situation of such a nature that the changes proposed by your President, and here I thank you for your support... [[No, no, that's not right.]] ...really improve the situation of borrowers. But it is a challenge not only of the President of the Republic of Poland, but of all the competent authorities of the state in this matter, also, I would say, the commitment of parliamentarians, Members and Senators. [[But it was the president who made the promise.]] And it is very good that some legal solutions that have been presented in the past are improved, because we have such a situation that the practice of applying the law has proved that the law can be improved. As far as the Restructuring Fund is concerned, we are dealing with a completely new legal instrument. Ladies and gentlemen, if I have not answered any questions, I will, of course, be available in committee work. We'll try to move all these threads. I very much hope that good cooperation on this project will make this project much faster to process than the procedated spread law is. And I am convinced that the end of this process by signing the bill by your President, which I have the honour of presenting today, is expected by borrowers and will really be a real tool to support thousands of borrowers who will be able to benefit from these funds. If these mechanisms are insufficient, we will try to present another one, because the President is certainly interested in this process. For us, the main objective of this law is the Fund to support people in difficulty and real support for strengthening the voluntary restructuring process, which should be more dynamic, with full agreement. I hope that the banks will apply these solutions and that borrowers will be able to sign such agreements. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u64	Thank you. [[Minister, the financial situation in the course of the loan.]] [[Secretary of State in the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: Just as in the Act.]] The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the law on the support of borrowers in financial difficulties, who have taken up a housing loan and the Act on corporation tax, contained in print No 1863, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the consideration of items 25 and 26 of the agenda: 25. Presentation by the President of the Council of Ministers of a document: Information of the Council of Ministers on the implementation in 2015 of the Act of 9 June 2011 on support for family and foster care (print No 820) together with the position of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs (print No 1002). 26. Presentation by the President of the Council of Ministers of a document: Information of the Council of Ministers on the implementation in 2016 of the Act of 9 June 2011 on support for family and foster care system (print No 1796) together with the position of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs (print No 1862). I ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Bartosz Marczuk to present the information. I would also like to inform you that at 3 p.m. 11.30, I'll announce a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u65	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to the High Sejm for taking care of this report. This, of course, is a very important bill and a very important system. Allow me not to talk about all the detailed information and data on what the family support and foster care system looks like. I'll talk about the most important things. Although we are to deal with 2015 and 2016, it is clear that I will focus on 2016 and on certain trends. Of course, I serve as the answer to all the questions. So for starters, as far as the main elements of this system are concerned, the first information - family assistants, who are very important in this system. Here we have an increase in the employment of family assistants to 3.9 thousand. But also, what is important, because the government supports the employment of family assistants, even though it is already the task of the municipality itself, because we have changed a bit the way we support these assistants - that is, we say to the municipalities that we prefer those who employ them for employment contracts and not for civil law contracts, in 2017 we also told them that they could reach for our money, provided that they hire them for employment contracts - we have a growing index of family assistants who are employed for employment contracts. This is very important from the point of view of working with the family, because there is no such temporaryity there. In 2016 we allocated PLN 60 million to support the employment of family assistants. Another element of this system, i.e. day support facilities. At the moment it functions or in 2016 it functioned in Poland 1,5 thousand. These facilities. 60% are non-public institutions. Thirty-six thousand. children benefit from this support. Another element of the system, i.e. the co-ordinators of the foster care. We've got close to 1.6,000. coordinators. This is also an important element of this system because of the support they provide to foster families. Here, of course, there is co-financing from budget money; the amount in 2016 is PLN 15 million. These are the three elements. And now the number of children placed in foster care... Because it's also a very important indicator. When we look at this from the perspective of how many people are in family forms of foster care in relation to the whole number, the population of children in Poland, we see a very positive one - although we would probably like it to be faster - a tendency, that is, a decrease in the number of children placed in foster care at all. This is one very positive trend. As we look at this percentage, we see that in 2014 we had 0.96% more. children placed in foster care, in 2015 - just a moment, I will find data - 0.94% , while in 2016 we were already at 0.91% children placed in foster care, I will remind you, in relation to the population. That's probably the most reliable indicator. In figures it looks like we had 74,7,000 in 2016. children compared to 2015, because we are also debating this, 76,5 thousands, so that's down to 2.3%. children in foster care. It's in numbers. That's one positive trend I mentioned. The second very positive trend, which we definitely care about very much, is that more and more children are in family forms of foster care. Here we have reduced these proportions - how many children are in institutional care - from 26% in 2015 to 24% in 2016, i.e. less than every fourth child is in institutional care, which definitely must be enjoyed. Indeed, we are committed to developing a family form of foster care. The decision to introduce this solution in the 500+ programme is also important here. We have embraced all children who are in the family forms of foster care, this program, I will remind you, without the income criterion, that is, all these children receive this support. In total, in 2016 almost 50 thousand. The children received this support monthly. This is also a very important change, because the amounts allocated to it exceed PLN 200 million per year. The measure of effectiveness of the system is, of course, how many children go to foster care at all - we would like these children to be there as little as possible - and how many of them later return to natural or biological families. There's an improvement here, too. The number of children who returned to natural families increased by 184 in 2016, while 686 fewer children were placed in foster care compared to 2015. What may be disturbing in some way, but when you look inside, it is less cause for concern, is that a little, by 52, we have increased the number of nursing institutions in 2016. But this is rather the result of this provision, which talks about 2020 and 2021, respectively, so that children by the age of 10 are no longer in institutions and that there are standards of 14 children in the institution. This increase in the number of institutions is mainly due to this second provision: to have up to 14 children in the institution. You can see it from the number of children in the facility. In 2016, we had 17 children in the facility, and in 2015 we had 19 children, so we can talk about the fact that these institutions are kind of adapting to these standards, often because they simply share and thus want to meet this standard. What is extremely important and very important, and what is worth repeating - and here also an appeal to ladies and gentlemen to repeat it in the field - are the costs incurred by children in foster care. This is very important information for the elderly, very important information for the counties, because when we look at these costs, we see that in the family form of foster care these costs are definitely, much lower than in institutional institutions. These numbers are indeed very important. In the institutions the cost of the monthly maintenance of the child in 2016 increased and amounted to PLN 4206, while the cost of living the child in a family form is PLN 1038, and in the family family and family home of the child - PLN 2100. So here we see that there is a gap in the costs that the local government incurs when it decides to develop a family form of foster care or decides to maintain this institutional care. Of course, it is a several-year process, and here it is probably agreed over the divisions to go towards deinstitutionalization. It is also important to speak loudly that there, down there, that really are the fundamental differences in costs. To conclude, I would like to say that when it comes to adoption, we have about the same number of children adopted in 2015 and 2016, this is a row of 3,300 children. In 2016, the number of children who were adopted by people living abroad decreased slightly. In 2016, 286 children were involved. It can be expected that in 2017 due to the decisions we made at the turn of 2016 and 2017 this number will still be decreasing. That's the most important information. Of course, I serve you with my own person if there are any questions. By recapitulating, the most important thing is the program. 500+, which clearly supports family forms of foster care. Our activity in this field to support the process of deinstitutionalisation of foster care, a slightly smaller number of children in institutions in general, a slightly smaller number of children in foster care and, what's important, these proportions, are about fewer children in institutions, that's what delights. We have these two shore years ahead of us, which is 2020 and 2021. We should all hope and we pro domo sua must make such efforts to improve this deinstitutionalisation rate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u66	Thank you very much, Minister. And I would like to ask Mrs Anna Krupka to present her position to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u67	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Social Policy and Family Commission on 29 September considered information from the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Act of 9 June 2011 on supporting the family and the foster care system. The discussion at the committee meeting focused on the effectiveness of the act within 5 years of its implementation, the effectiveness of the family support system, its specific elements, such as family assistants, day support facilities and support families, as well as foster care. And here also a particularly important element, which was discussed, was the analysis of influxes to and drains from the foster care of children until the 18th year. The discussion followed. The Commission adopted the report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u68	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles in discussions on these items on the agenda. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Leszek Dobrzyński, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u69	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on two reports on the implementation of the Law on Family Support and foster care. Maybe I can start by saying that, theoretically and in a nutshell, the idea of a family support system in a crisis looks quite simple and effective, because first of all, we do everything we can to support the family, so that the child doesn't have to leave it and go to the state's care, and secondly, if it comes to the fact that in the final case the child has to be isolated from his natural family and put into any form of foster care, then we do everything we can to keep him in this care as short as possible, in the time needed to resolve the crisis or in extreme cases - to find a new family for the child and adopt him. Of course, such an ambitious plan needs a well-trained and aware role of staff, ranging from social workers, to courts and, of course, foster families. And of course, one more thing, as you usually say, is a little something: money is needed. In my opinion, big money is needed here, because a well-functioning system, training its participants and maintaining a high level of staff of each level must cost, especially at a time when the labour market is increasingly absorbing and the problem of the level of wages in different professional areas becomes extremely severe, causing a shortage and rotation of workers. Family care and foster care need exceptional stability, an atmosphere of extraordinary gentleness and intimacy, creating specific bonds, and knowledge of the subjects, all this information, also about dependency, is difficult to pass on to another person every six months. Today, there are many forms of family and foster care, which give people who want to take up this challenge in different ways, both in terms of their professional status, commitment and their preference for the number of children, their age or their legal status. So we have family homes, different kinds of foster homes. Somehow, in my opinion, adoption families should also be included in this system, which, following the adoption procedure, become de facto a full-fledged natural family. Trends in the changing number of family foster care actors over the past year show that family foster families are systematically declining, while family foster families and foster foster homes are increasing. Here, this growth is particularly evident, which may indicate that some foster parents are starting to choose foster parenting as a way of life, including professional ones. These data are reflected in the number of children in family forms of foster care. And so we see a decreasing, although these are not so great changes, the number of children in foster families related to non-professional and professional families and the growing number of children in family homes. This number, as I said, is not too big, but nevertheless it is also worth to notice as a success. Question: "Whether it is a kind of common omissions and errors, or a determinant of our possibilities that we have had over the years." The law on family support and foster care entered into force in January 2012, then it was subject to several amendments and its provisions systematicised the issue and introduced new solutions that had not yet existed. In addition, however, it is also important to mention such an important fact as the implementation of the 500+ programme in the meantime. Its implementation certainly significantly improved the financial situation of natural families, as well as foster families of all forms. This greatly increased the comfort of running foster families and gave them much more opportunities, e.g. sending children to various forms of recreation, increasing the implementation of out-of-school activities for the development of children and increasing their mental horizons and interests. But it is also worth noting here that unfortunately there were indications of cases when, in relation to foster families taking 500+, the leading authorities tried to apply a specific strategy of savings, in quotes, and to refuse targeted support in the various random cases that have been provided so far, arguing directly: Well, you have 500+. It is therefore worth reminding you all the time that these are absolutely unacceptable practices. Whether in natural or surrogate families, the addition of 500+ cannot be counted as family income. It's supposed to be a supplement, an extra fund to increase family opportunities, not a way to save money, e.g. By self-government. Personally with great interest and at the same time I look forward to the next reports in order to be able to see how just 500+ affected the condition of Polish families and whether there will be an increased positive trend indicating that fewer and fewer children will go to different forms of foster care. It is a fact that a large proportion of children go to foster care because of pathology in their families. In turn, as we know, pathology often, although not always, is born where poverty is. There have already been numbers quoted here which indicate from various data and statistics that there is progress that fewer and fewer children, on the one hand, go to the foster care system, and on the other hand more and more children from foster families return to their natural homes. Let's blow on it, blow on it, see what else we can do. There is a positive trend growing very laboriously, although it must be acknowledged that every child who remains in the foster care system, and at the moment it is over 70,000. Kids... This number should really make us lean over this problem always, because every child outside his natural home is drama, that's experience, that's deep psyche features. Ladies and gentlemen! There is another problem with the subject under discussion. This law adopted by the Sejm is implemented by local authorities. And this is where the stairs start, because as it turns out, there are different approaches to supporting the family, and especially to developing different forms of foster care. If we look at the map of Poland, we will still see islands where the development of replacement care is more intense than in other areas. You have to admit, from a perspective of years, that this understanding is growing locally. You can see the development, but it's still quite uneven. A few other problems need to be highlighted, e.g. that the growth of those willing to take up foster parenthood should be a concern, and without a significant increase in willingness to undertake this mission, such a profound breakthrough in reducing the number of institutional care facilities and in particular the number of children there will not be possible. It is also important that in foster parenting there is, as in any professional group, generational surrogacy. It is also important that those who are about to retire, perhaps retire, or change their profession, have their successors. It is therefore still necessary to promote very actively the idea of all forms of surrogate parenting, increasing its prestige and social acceptance - this should have a positive effect - of course, including professional attractiveness, with good conditions for fulfilling this mission, so that the next families are ready to carry out this very difficult, responsible and exhausting mission, especially mentally. As far as supporting foster families is concerned, they themselves signal the need to speed up judicial decisions. These decisions also include the problem of correcting the legal situation of children who can get into the adoption process more quickly. There is also a lack of coordination and exchange of information between child and family institutions. A common experience is the situation where some information is available to the police, some information has a court, a curator, a social worker, a family help centre, and there is no place where all this information would be collected and analysed on an ongoing basis. As a result, the information object does not keep up with life and there is a dangerous inertia that does not allow for a quick reaction, and sometimes the damage caused at that time is no longer manageable. The lack of child psychologists specializing in foster care children is also indicated. Separation from the natural family, being in a foster family is such a big trauma that it triggers emotional processes and problems with a separate specificity than those known in the natural family. Ladies and gentlemen, that's all in short. Let me end by greeting all foster parents who perform various forms of foster care as well as those who support them, as well as officials, social workers, families, friends. Great bows and thanks for the work you've done. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will continue to initiate and support measures to strengthen the condition of families in Poland, both natural ones and those belonging to all forms of foster parenting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u70	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Magdalena Kochan, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u71	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In 2016, 74,757 children were in foster care. Compared to 2015 and 2014 it is about 1746 children less. This is an undeniable success. This is 1746 children who are raised in their natural homes, although not so long ago they would be threatened with transfer to foster care. 18,000. children - just over 18 thousand. - is in institutional foster care. And that is not good news, because the institution in no way, with the great involvement of teachers, teachers, educators there, is unable to replace the family. However, this is a facility where every 8 hours, every 10 hours, the teacher changes. Moms, dads, aunts, uncles - because it's different in family foster care - there isn't every day. There's no sense that I'm the point of interest, the subject of interest, that they care about me, that they love me. 4682 foster parents returned to their homes. This is a huge success, especially since compared to 2015 in 2016 it was about 175 more children. That's really very good information. I am convinced that this is the result of the good operation of the first link of care that we are talking about, that is, taking care of in his own natural family. The support of the family for which the municipality is responsible, the local self-government unit closest to its citizens, the awareness of the great impact that the support of this community has on the lives of children and families, is growing. Family assistant, family assistant, a new profession that was properly introduced in 2012 is effective. However, I must say that 3905 family assistants are still not enough, because in 2479 local districts in our homeland only less than 4,000 of them work. This is far too little, especially since each of the assistants is statistically concerned with nine families, but the effectiveness of his work reaches 47%. An assistant who spends a year working with his family gets almost 50 percent. What? Supporting the family, the fact that children don't go to foster care, the fact that the family is functioning. It is such a thoughtful profession that it has nothing to do with the probation officer, the municipal official who comes and checks whether children are raised under the right conditions. This is a family friend who helps the family find themselves in difficult situations, which is more than just a guide between institutions, a link between institutions that support the family, and to which often the family cannot reach. That's 47%. effective measures to guide families. I do not know if there is a more effective institution in prevention in any other field of life. It is worth supporting this form and it is also worth saying that this form, although the municipalities accepted it without reservation as their own task, without receiving additional resources, should also be supported by the government. It's done, but I don't think it's done enough. 60 million isn't enough. I am convinced that, above the divisions, we will decide that there will be much more money in the 2018 budget for this purpose. Effectiveness, ladies and gentlemen, effectiveness. So if we help in the proper operation of a family aide, we will spend less money on foster care, much more costly than the functioning of a normal family. Support families are another institution introduced by the Act on foster care and supporting the family. It is also a very good form of helping families in trouble, but it is probably demanding separate legal solutions, which are worth working on. As can be seen from the report, this is also in the Ministry's plans, which is very happy. Day support institutions also play a role in this respect. And I have to talk about one more institution, not listed in the Family Support Act and the foster care system, but very helpful to families in trouble. This is another law, very compatible with it, a law on the prevention of violence in the family, in which often an interdisciplinary team dealing with the family in trouble helps out of these problems. It's a substitute bake, ladies and gentlemen. This is the case: if the municipality has exhausted all means to keep the biological family in good condition, not to take children from it - the family cannot get out, it is difficult, such families also happen - the children are taken care of by another local government unit - the county. This county is obliged to carry out this task. And here I have to say that for 380 counties of 1643 co-ordinators of foster care seems almost good, but also unsatisfactory, given that in five counties there are no such co-ordinators at all, although the law makes it very clear. It should also be said that since 2004 this task has been the task of its own districts, which Parliament, when introducing it, has also supplemented with additional funds, i.e. more resources which the counties can obtain from taxes as own income. I see that I don't have much time, so let me just say this: what I enjoy here in foster care is that most children are in family forms, including the largest group of children, because over 31 thousand are in relatives. This is the best of information. We're looking for a family child, family first. If we don't have a dad, at least an uncle, a cousin, a grandmother, a grandfather. It's in the family, but it's in foster care. The increasing number of children's family homes means that this legal form is the most convenient for foster parents. It's worth supporting. It is still worth looking at whether better legal solutions could be asked for. The important thing is that children from family foster care receive a benefit of 500+ as opposed to children in institutional care. Here I must speak of my greatest concern, because under the current law 1,700 children are in institutional foster care, although they are not 7 years old. It's against the law. The situation is that every child who is placed in foster care is a child after a judicial judgment - the family court rules the foster care - each child, but the court also determines the address of the child's stay. And that's a mistake, because if the judge doesn't find enough foster families, he says, well, in this county, I have to send the child to the facility. And the governor says, "I have to execute the verdict of the court, so I can't put the baby in foster care even in the neighboring district, two steps away, although there I have parents willing to do it, I just have to put this baby in the institution." It is worth thinking about legal solutions, which this vicious circle will completely eliminate. It is also worth thinking, Minister, that, as part of strengthening the role of independent children from institutional foster care, they should also be beneficiaries of 500+. Why? That's because when they go out to become self-emancipated, basically, they come out unequipped with nothing. And while in family forms we see a very good tendency to stay children up to the age of 25 and to learn in families - that is, foster families have taken over the role of biological families [[♪ The bell ♪]] - so many kids leaving the institution... I'm almost done, Marshal. ...come out of them, practically speaking, euphemistically, naked and bare. Moreover, we know that most of them unfortunately end up under the wing of social services because they are not doing well in life. A thing like 500+ and a trust fund run by a county in a very reinforced institution of emancipation would give these children a chance to get a better start.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u72	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u73	One last word, Marshal. Adoptions - very good results when it comes to adoptions, and especially the decreasing number of children in foreign families. I would very much like you, Minister, to see what impact this kind of reduction in foreign adoption has on the introduction of a law not so long ago prohibiting adoption with an indication.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u74	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u75	Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u76	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u77	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The report of the Council of Ministers on the implementation in 2016 of the Act of 9 June 2011 on supporting the family and foster care system in my opinion deserves a positive opinion. It is factual, it allows to find out what the state of care in Poland looks like. The fact that such a document has been drawn up by the Ministry of Social Policy and the Family is certainly glad because it allows for better control of this important area, such as family, child, foster care - it has clearly been missing in previous years - but it should be supplemented by an analysis of the causes and effects of these phenomena. Dry statistics do not explain the actual situation of children, foster families and children's homes. For example, we know that the number of children placed in foster care is falling, but we do not know what this means: the better situation of minors in family homes, demographic factors or problems with creating new foster families. Each one of these questions gives birth to another one, and we're left with another one. However, with regard to the foster care system itself, it is clear that action is moving towards better, although there is still a great deal to be done. In 2016, the number of family assistants increased by more than 2.3% compared to 2015. Cooperation with assistants for 12 725 families, i.e. 29% of those benefiting from such assistance, ended in 2016 in almost 6 thousand. cases, i.e. 47%, happened because the objectives were achieved. To a large extent, we have been able to hire additional assistants with a 60-million-dollar grant from the Ministry in the programme: family assistant and family co-ordinator of foster care. Similarly, the number of family foster care coordinators increased by 3%. At the end of 2016, there were 1643 employees. There were over 27,000 in their care. foster families and foster homes, which accounts for as much as 70% all family foster care entities. It is also a good thing that families are more and more eager to seek the care of their coordinators, as this shows that they are gaining more and more confidence in them. It's a good thing the municipalities see the need to hire assistants more and more. Unfortunately, both the number of coordinators and assistants is still insufficient. First of all, it is important to pay attention to the way the coordinators are financed, because they work under special conditions. Meanwhile, the Association of Polish Cities indicates that the state grant covers only 25% of their remuneration and the remaining amount must be paid by the county authorities from their own resources. As you know, the counties simply do not have such measures. As a result, coordinators have low salaries, are employed for a limited period of time, which simply discourages them. And yet, to this profession, to help families, children and people in such a difficult social and psychological situation, should be the best. Therefore, the ZMP asks that the State grant be at least 50% the costs of the coordinator's employment. In my opinion, the proposal is absolutely justified. By the way, the problem with child care funding is not just about coordinators. I believe that it is too much on the part of local authorities, which are still receiving new tasks, without sufficient funds to carry them out. Does the Ministry see this problem? I would also like to say that the fact that I am happy is that the number of children placed in foster care is falling systematically. In 2016, the number of children placed was 1746 lower than in 2015. This means a reduction of more than 2% It is greater than in 2014 and 2015 because it was estimated at an even lower level. The Ministry indicates that the decrease in the number of children in foster care is related to the 500+ programme. In general, it's very good news, but foresight dictates asking the question whether in any case. Concerns relate to situations where a child is taken to the same dysfunctional home solely for money. There is no need to improve his family situation, material conditions, education opportunities, proper care for his family. I would therefore like to ask the Minister a question: Is there a reliable supervision of the child's future in the biological family? In 2016, there was also an improvement in the professionalization of family foster care. In the case of professional foster families, this is only 2%, which is basically the limit of statistical error. However, indicators are much better when we are talking about family children's homes, which have increased by 9%. If there were less than 500 in 2015, so this year This is over 500, or 534. Today's family homes are just 1.3% of the family's foster care structure. It is still not enough for foster families and non-institutional foster care providers. I would like to remind you that our main goal is to completely eliminate the institutional homes of the child and create children who cannot or do not want to take care of their biological parents, as best as possible, close to family, living conditions and upbringing. I'm sure we're all in agreement about that. Statistics and expert studies show that such a model of care is also optimal for a child in difficulty. This applies especially to young children. Particularly dramatic in this context is the fact that there is no statutory obligation to place children under the age of 7 in non-institutional foster care only in traditional children's homes. Despite clear court judgments, the counties have no other choice, because foster families are simply not enough. So what is the Ministry's idea of solving this situation? Continuing to be in fiction is not beneficial to anyone, but least to children. I want to know what action the government is taking or intends to take to strengthen non-institutional foster care, since many actions promoting this form of care across the country have not produced tangible results. Did, first of all, someone analyze why this is happening? Secondly, whether the Ministry has an effective idea and, above all, money to help foster families, even in providing care for children when carers want to go on vacation. Despite appearances, this is not a small matter, but an important issue for many families. It is also worth looking at regional diversity, why there is much more in some voivodships willing to work as a co-ordinator or foster parent than in others, in addition to diagnosing why Poles do not want to take care of foster care. Information doesn't answer that. During this debate, we are still talking about children, so people up to 18 or in some cases up to the age of 25. However, I would like to point out that the situation of young people who have to leave their foster homes and start their own adult lives without financial support, family support, housing is equally dramatic. This issue also needs radical modifications. Today, as a country, we are not very good at helping this group adapt. That is why, when discussing this information, the government at the committee's meeting had a theme of creating a trust fund that would make it easier to deal with life at its own expense. Certainly, children growing up in the institutional homes of their children have a harder start in this case. That is why they often return to their family home, which has already rejected them once. I don't think anyone needs to be told what the consequences are. So if we have funds for the 500+ program, from which money can also receive foster families, maybe we could make such money for start-up, for example. for your own apartment, for your own company, which would really allow you to start your own life. The remaining part I'd like to leave to my friend Cornelia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u78	You're welcome. Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u79	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I have a more specific question. My colleague referred to all the information you provided, and I am lacking in all the more detailed information on adoption, for which disabled people would be parties, both disabled children and disabled families who want to adopt a child, including a disabled child. Of course, in both information there is a point concerning the rules of recruitment and selection of candidates for family foster care, there is a reference to the law, but there are no details of what are the criteria, there is a reference only to the law, there is no information on the number of individual families, individual individuals. We have these situations... The bill contains among others. it is noted that the opinion of the primary health care doctor and the psychologist is needed, but there are no details on how this is to be determined. There are situations when families with disabilities, e.g. deaf families want to adopt a deaf child and they can't do it because although they meet all the basic criteria set out in the bill, the primary physician [[♪ The bell ♪]] Health care states that deafness is a disease and therefore a deaf family cannot adopt a deaf child. Such situations are very large, such situations also apply to blind people. The question is how big is the percentage of such situations as there are many such families as many children with disabilities cannot be adopted by disabled families - although if children are born in such families, there are very many examples that show that they come out of these families amazing characters, very famous, talented, and such a family that is a family with disabilities, has the most opportunities to raise a child. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u80	Thank you, Member. I'm calling a 10-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 mins 31 hours 11 min 42]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider items 25 and 26 of the agenda. Please take the floor of Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszka, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u81	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I present the position of the club of the Polish People's Party regarding information of the Council of Ministers about the implementation in 2015 and 2016 of the Act of 9 June 2011 on supporting the family of the foster care system together with the position of the committee. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The law on family support and foster care has been undergoing successive amendments for years, which improve the functioning of the childcare system. It also responds to the expectations of a foster parenting crisis observed in recent years. The latest amendments of June 2015 concern provisions related to the increased flexibility of local self-government units and the facilitation of cooperation between them. We consider these actions to be a step in the right direction. Today, every county can combine a daily support facility with a care and education facility or an organizational social assistance unit of its own. This possibility also involves a reduction in the number of directors' posts. However, there are still doubts in the course of the work. Some of them are related to cooperation between family courts, which issue custody orders and establish foster families and district family care centres. It is these institutions in most powiats that act as the organizer of family foster care, which is responsible for qualifying for guardians and supports working foster families. In practice, these relations in individual counties look very different. However, the main problem with which most organisers are confronted is the ready court order indicating that the child is to be placed in a given form of care, without taking into account the situation that exists in a particular local government. At the same time, we are negatively assessing the tendency to reduce the competences of local authorities in this area in favour of voivodships. Another important point should be the revision of the information flow system between the institutions involved in placing children in foster care. Perhaps it is worth considering whether the courts should be obliged to inform the district family care centers about the reasons for placing the child in foster care. Currently, institutions receive a provision which contains only basic data on the child in custody. Such practice makes it difficult for them to implement one of the requirements imposed on us by the Law of 9 June 2011 on support for family and foster care. It is precisely the duty to inform the court periodically whether the conditions for the stay of the child outside the biological family still exist or have ceased. What is important is the granting of additional allowances to the above mentioned authority. courts themselves often apply to institutions. This is so important that it is the employees of the institution who are responsible for criminally and disciplinaryly for what is going on in our dependent foster families. Another major problem is the lack of possibility to withdraw qualifications for a foster family. Family workers, of course, stress that these are exceptional situations. Most foster families do their job properly, but there are families to whom after a while it turns out that they should not have children under their care. Only that the organiser cannot withdraw the qualifications awarded to them, which in extreme cases may lead to the fact that when it moves to another county, it will be able to register there with a certificate issued and continue to take care of children. The obligation to listen to the child's opinion, the changes in control of foster families, the financing of children's stay in care facilities and the income of children in such care are only some changes that allow for a quick response if there is any doubt as to the proper care of the child. This is the right direction of change, not necessarily related to the taking away of powers from local governments for the sake of the voivodship offices. We also hope that the majority of the proposed changes will focus primarily on the welfare of the beneficiaries of the replacement care, that there will be no political fight against local governments. I would like to conclude by thanking all those who are helping and sacrificially supporting foster families, supporting foster care as a form of care. In particular, it is important to keep in mind the management and staff of care and therapy institutions. Here I will remind you that children under the age of 12 are accepted there, there are newborns and older children, children who were born sick or whose mothers have renounced their parental rights. It is the workers who, after regulating the legal situation, are trying to adopt children and provide them with family warmth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u82	Thank you, sir. Małgorzata Zwierzan presented her position in writing. Let's get to the questions. If anyone else wants to sign up, you're welcome. Time for the question - two minutes. Mr Sławomir Jan Piechota, Civic Platform. There's no envoy. [[I'm here, I'm here.]] You're an MP.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u83	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank all those involved in foster care from this place most sincerely, because you need a warm heart and a hard, hard job to bring back the chance to build a future life for those kids. On the other hand, I miss what Mrs Kornelia Wróblewska has already mentioned, namely information about children with disabilities. In my opinion, this should be a permanent point of this information. With what disabilities children are placed in foster care, in which forms this support in foster care is provided to them, and also to what extent this support is more intensive, among others. by helping to access proper medical care, by helping in proper rehabilitation, by helping in education in conditions that include and give an opportunity to compensate for these barriers, problems that arise precisely from disability? And I ask the Minister for that information. Finally, I believe that these experiences of this modernised replacement care, where more and more tasks are transferred to family forms, require increased financial support. In my opinion, this is the easiest thing to do, because it is much harder to find the right people, especially those family assistants or people who run various family forms of foster care. On the other hand, it seems that today's amount to these needs and the results achieved as a result of this support definitely [[♪ The bell ♪]] It deserves an increase. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u84	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u85	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think we have such a good impression that in Poland we are building, we are constantly developing a consistently foster care system and it is a mechanism, a system which is becoming more and more perfect and better. It's probably a common sense and consistency, work has been working for years. It's worth talking about, because there's never been anything like this here that works theoretically. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to two very important moments, namely this moment before the child, sometimes very small, goes to foster care, and for this final moment, when he is to become independent. Here I would draw attention to the experience of the Pre-adoption Centre in Łódź Tula Lula Foundation Gaiusz. I do not know if you have ever heard of this centre, but from this place you would have to give to those who lead it and who participate in its work, the highest respect, because your knowledge and practice, how important the touch, direct proximity, are fundamental, in my view, when it comes to taking care of little children in a situation where they are deprived of mothers. The question is, Minister, do you observe the experience of the Tula Lula centre and how would you use its experience just when the young children are taken over by foster families, where this knowledge would be quite crucial to properly develop the emotionality of the child, because the losses resulting from the lack of touch, the lack of contact are simply beyond catching up. The second topic is the matter of the young man's entering into adulthood and what Mrs Kochan said, that the young man is leaving the orphanage in principle without anything. It is clear that the state should act here. I think you're also working to get graduates, home-schoolers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the children were beneficiaries of the scheme. Accommodation+. I would ask you to develop this element, because I think it's very sensitive right now. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u86	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Bartosz Marczuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, I humbly welcome the comments made by Mrs Wróblewska and Mr Piechota. We will try to answer the question of the Member with regard to disabled children based on what we have. We will also allow ourselves to send to Mr Piechota the data we have right now. However, next year we will add to the report, which is, that information which you are requesting to be made available to you. I am also pleased that this debate, and indeed this is about what all clubs actually raise, is going on in such a good atmosphere. We all agree on the direction that we should go towards deinstitutionalisation and that this is important to all of us, what Mr Piechota says about these hot hearts. It is true that all of us here should bear in mind that when it comes to these sometimes large numbers, tens of thousands of children, there is really a living person behind each of these cases or behind each number. And it is simply necessary to think in such categories, as Mrs Kochan spoke about, i.e. issues relating to carers, the exchange of carers in institutional care, i.e. that there are indeed carers there who change every 8 hours. And in family forms, however, we often have such cases - I drive around Poland and I observe that children simply speak to foster parents: Mom, Dad or Auntie, uncle. This is actually a completely different level of care. I would very much like everyone who can and who has good will to understand this fundamental difference, this emotional fundamental difference between family care and institutional care. As far as financial support is concerned, as Mr Piechota asked, of course I pay attention to when we meet with those people who are, for example. in the coalition for foster care, that the world after 500+, when it comes to family forms of foster care or even foster care, has definitely changed for these people. The point is that they receive the current transfer of money, and this is over PLN 200, close to PLN 220 million per year. 50,000. Children receive a benefit of 500+. Of course, I'll say it again: no income criterion. It's for the day-to-day operation, for the day-to-day expenses. This is a very important change that has taken place, because at this moment we include 3/4 of children with this additional form of support and these people can actually breathe, although probably together, together we would like the old men, the counties to reward the foster parents more generously. Plus, it's about what's probably still behind us somewhere in the system, which means that they're more likely to choose to employ these families in the form of transforming them into professional families, so that, of course, these professional families get additional financial support. We are thinking, by the way, of what we are working on in the Ministry, i.e. on such a solid review of this law, on how to possibly intervene by law if we have the possibility. The same is true of what Mr Wilczyński asked about the issue of emancipation. Indeed, this is in our heart, and we are thinking about how to improve - in quotes - the fate of those children who come out of care. This is not only a statutory level, but also a level of non-governmental organisations. Right now, we're talking to a non-governmental organization, a foundation that's working on it, too. We want to support this process. As far as Tula Luli is concerned, I've been dating the ladies who run the facility. I actually owe them a visit. They were cordially invited. I even know there was some trouble in Łódź. I was trying to help them. It is true that we take into account the experience of the ladies from this centre also in our work, which will concern changes in the law that we are preparing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u88	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Supporting families experiencing difficulties in caring for and raising children through a system of planned measures to help such families restore their ability to perform care and care functions, and applying foster care in the event that their children are unable to provide care and parent education, is one of the most important tasks of the state. Kukiz'15 is of the opinion that priority in this system should be given primarily to broad preventive measures in the form of family assistants, day support facilities or support families, as well as reintegration activities in families already taken away from their children. However, according to the club, the number of assistants is still insufficient to meet the needs. The lack of stabilisation of employment through the application of civil law agreements causes too frequent rotations in these positions and thus adversely affects work with the family. We note that contrary to the regulation of the article. The 95 laws on supporting the family and foster care of children up to the age of 7 are still placed in children's homes. In 2016, 236 children under the age of 1, 631 from 1 to 3 years of age and 1009 from 4 to 6 years of age were present in the homes of a young child. Given the adverse impact of institutional care on the psychophysical development of such young children, this is a phenomenon that should be eliminated immediately. In addition, despite the declared efforts towards deinstitutionalisation of foster care, new homes of the child continue to be created, e.g. in Sępolno Krajńskie and Sokołów Podlaski. There are also practical problems regarding the creation of foster families. There are still many candidates for the role of foster family who face huge barriers at the initial qualification stage for training. For example, the PCPRs depart from the organisation of trainings for several families for economic reasons. Moreover, cooperation between powiats in the use of spare seats in foster families is extremely difficult. District family care centers often refuse to allow foster care for children from another county, explaining that they are not our children. In view of the well-being of children and the need to provide them with family conditions immediately, there can be no talk of This leads to situations where, in many professional foster homes or family homes, the number of children exceeds the statutory limit, while others are refused to accept further children. There is also concern about the reality of the process of self-emancipation of institutional guardians, who very often learn and live in sheltered homes, must remain for 500 PLN per month (aid to continue learning). The adoption procedure, too, shows a problem. As statistics show, the number of national adoptions carried out is decreasing. The reason, however, is not that there are no families interested in this form of helping the child, and above all, problems with access to training and too long waiting period for the child to be admitted. In summary, Kukiz'15 welcomes system-based family support and foster care solutions, but their practical implementation, in line with the broad principle of child welfare, requires intensified remedial action.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u90	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the information of the Council of Ministers on the implementation in 2015 and 2016 of the Law of 9 June 2011 on support for family and foster care. First of all, at the beginning, I would like to thank the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy sincerely for preparing such thorough and comprehensive but also transparent reports on activities. However, these documents are not impressive, and the actions which the Ministry took in 2016 in particular in so much scope and in so many areas. The family support system is based on working with the family. It has been important since the onset of the first difficulties and is essential when a serious crisis threatens the welfare of a child in the family. Work with the family is mainly carried out in the form of services provided by the family assistant, while care and upbringing are carried out in the form of daily support facilities or support families. Family assistants are an important part of the family support system in their environment. It should be noted that there were very significant changes in 2016 compared to the previous year. For the first time, foster families, foster homes and family care institutions received real financial aid from the state. At the same time, the possibility of placing children in foster care because of poverty has been blocked. Children are no longer taken from homes where they are loved and feel safe because of the difficult financial situation of the family. Such families since 2016 have finally been cared for and cared for by the Polish State. The government's attitude towards the family has changed, to the children. Now the government is really supporting them. We've never spent as much money supporting families as we have today. Thanks to the government's actions, in particular the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance and Development of Mateusz Morawiecki, it is possible to pursue real family policies through the Ministry led by Minister Elżbieta Rafalska in various forms, but mainly thanks to the 500+ programme. The changes introduced in 2016 have made foster care a part of the country's pro-family policy. The Ministry's efforts are right in the direction of both financial support for the Polish foster care system and care and non-financial support. It is very exciting that in 2015 the number of family assistants increased. In 2016, there was also an increase in the number of assistants employed under the employment contract. A sense of stability in employment at work with the family has a positive impact on the achievement of good results, especially when this form of support is extended. At the end of 2016, a law was introduced for life, which assigned the assistant's family new competences. Thanks to this act, the role of assistant becomes new, more universal in the case of assistance offered not only to families with children, but also to pregnant women. I believe that institutionalised care should be of a periodic nature and always aim to integrate the child with his family. I'm very happy for you. so that the form of family foster care largely prevails over institutional care. This confirms the maintenance of the desired trend. The expected and realized trend is to place children in family forms of foster care. I am also pleased to know that there are fewer children in need of such help. It's not a coincidence. It is a matter not only of statutory changes, but also of promoting family life as undeniable and irreplaceable value. I am concerned about the reduction in 2016 in the number of families benefiting from the assistance of an assistant and a supportive family. The problem of a fall in these forms of family support can be seen as a lack of regulation. Perhaps it would be worthwhile to introduce rules to help municipalities enter into agreements with supporting families. I believe that municipalities should promote this form of aid because it helps to maintain close relationships in a family that is experiencing temporary problems. I consider the reports presented to be reliable. It is clear from the information provided that we still have some gaps in the system, but we are gradually closing them, which is good for the future. The Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of the information of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u91	The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy requests the adoption of: - Information of the Council of Ministers on the implementation in 2015 of the Law of 9 June 2011 on support for family and foster care, - Information of the Council of Ministers on the implementation in 2016 of the Law of 9 June 2011 on support for family and foster care. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 49th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Please, you have the floor... No. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz made his statement in writing. I therefore invite Mr Jan Mosiński from Law and Justice. There's no envoy. And Mr Ryszard Wilczyński is? Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests gathered at the gallery and residents of Opole region! I am sad to inform you that colonel's funeral is underway at the moment. Stefan Szelki, Soldier, Veteran, President of the Management Board of the Voivodeship Union of Polish Combatants and Former Political Prisoners in Opole, a man of great merit, an excellent figure, a symbolic figure, a person who has permanently entered into the functioning in recent years, and basically since the war, the Opole region. Because I cannot be at this ceremony because of the Sejm's sitting, in this formula of the message I would like to pay my respects, respect for this man, speaking a little bit about his life and his merits and who he was. Colonel Stefan Szelka was born on 23 December 1924 in Niedspielin, Łódź Voivodeship. He was brought up in a patriotic spirit, so he joined the Battalions as a young man, a boy. I would like to remind you that yesterday the Sejm celebrated the 77th anniversary of the Uprising of the Boys' Battalions. He had a short battle route because he had to go to 1. The Polish Army joined the army in March 1945. Then he stayed in the army, was at the level of a military officer's career. He had the opportunity, even as a soldier, to fight against the troops of the Ukrainian Insurgent Army in 1946 in the area of Bircza - Przemyśl - Sanok. He graduated from the Military Academy in Warsaw and, when he finished it, was directed to Opole. He served in 2. Warsaw Mechanized Division General Henryk Dąbrowski. In 1972, he began work at the voivodship military staff, where, ladies and gentlemen, since he had finished his job, because he was a commander, he had his office, and in this office he was doing union work, taking in combatants, taking care of veteran affairs. As a voivode, I watched this job. He was a frequent guest in my office. He reported to me this way: Mr. Voivode, you remember when we started working together, it was so many of us, and now, this year, so many hundreds of people have passed away, and this year hundreds more. And I followed that number of veterans down, and it melts, and there's less and less of them at the festivities. And finally, the colonel's life ended, too. He was a very special man. Imagine a more than 90-year-old man who works all the time is still active. He spends most of his active life in uniform to deal with the affairs of aging, sick veterans, to organize national celebrations, anniversaries, celebrations in individuals, to tell young people about what the battle route was, what the war route was, what service in the army is, what service in the country is. He devoted a lot of work to making every school in Opole, which had no patron, encourage the patron to be just one of the heroes of history, the war route, the history of Polish weapons. So that it was a man who was not enough, he was a teacher, he was a social worker, he was a model for everyone. I hope you'll wait a little longer because I'm talking about someone special, and when it comes to patriotic education, it's important. I'll ask you later to celebrate him with a minute of silence. So a man who was well-deserved left, a man who could enjoy life, a man who always had a story on hand, sometimes a military joke, who could involve others in what seemed to be the most important thing in his life, in saving his memory of a time when really patriotism meant blood tribute. We'll be in Opole, we'll miss this man in Opole. He's gone. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, I'd be grateful, Mr. Marshal, if we, along with the people here, honor his memory with a moment of silence. [[The assembled rise, a moment of silence]] Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-13-sejm-49-4.u93	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 49th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 50th session of the Sejm, convened on 25, 26 and 27 October 2017, was delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 12 min 05]]
