ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u1	I open the 40th Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Rafał Ambrozik and Senator Robert Dowhan to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Rafał Ambrozik. Are you Senator Dowhan? There it is. In the absence of objections to the minutes of the thirty-six and thirty-seventh meetings, I state that the minutes of these meetings have been adopted. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that the fourth point of the draft agenda be considered, even though the report of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy has been submitted at a later date than set out in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. State Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by items: the Act amending the Law on Scientific Degrees and Titles and on Degrees and Titles in Arts and Certain Other Acts and consider it as the first point; appeal by the chairman of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions Act amending the Law on the Promotion of Rural Development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020, and considering it as point eight, after the Act on the Amendment of the Law on the Conservation of Nature; Act on combating doping in sport and consider this point as point 9; the Law amending the Law on the Educational Information System and certain other laws and consider this point as point 10; the Act amending the Act on Cinema and certain other laws The second reading of the draft opinion on non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity of the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules for the internal market in electricity, printing No 482 and considering this point as point 14 after the point on ratification of the Agreement with the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan; the second reading of the draft opinion on non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity of the proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the internal market in electricity, printing No 481 and considering this point as 15th. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. [[Voice in the O.R.: There's a call...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, I don't object, but I'd like to consider supplementing the program... [[But it's not now, Senator, because right now...]] No? Good. [[It's out of rhythm. Right now, it's about these proposals...]] Good. Well, remember, I'm gonna ask you to complete the program.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u3	I ask the question again: is any of you, ladies and gentlemen of the senators opposed to the proposal? [[Me.]] Please, Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I object to point 11 because it's done at an extraordinary rate. Everything went down really fast... [[Eleven, okay, okay.]] ...and I object to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator... [[I object to...]] But no, that's... It was an objection to my proposal, and that doesn't require any further opposition from the senator. Are there any other voices in the room? You're welcome. No. Then we'll vote. As for the other points, I didn't hear any objections. We are therefore voting on my proposal to introduce a point concerning the Act amending the Act on Cinema and certain other laws and to consider this point as the 11th. Who's in favour of bringing it in? Who's against bringing him in? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 75 senators voted, 48 were in favour, 26 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 1]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the High House has adopted all these proposals just moments ago. In addition, I propose that you consider point 14 together, i.e. second reading of the draft opinion on non-compliance with the subsidiarity principle of the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules for the internal market in electricity, and point 15, i.e. second reading of the draft opinion on non-compliance with the subsidiarity principle of the draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the internal market in electricity. If I don't hear any objection, I'll assume the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I propose to supplement the agenda with a law on amending the Law on social security benefits in the case of sickness and maternity and the Act on amending the Law on social security benefits in the case of sickness and maternity and certain other laws, print No. 497. The Act does not raise any controversy and it seems that the examination of the point will be very short and it is important that this act be adopted as soon as possible. The committee's opinion was... [[Mr. Senator, are you suggesting that which point is this?]] This could even be the last point.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u7	Last point? Okay, so we're gonna settle for the last one. Is anyone against this proposal? The printing is prepared, this is in accordance with the rules of procedure, we can add this item to the agenda. In the absence of a vote of objection, I find that the High House has accepted the proposal of the senator. Would any of you like to speak on the matter of order? No. I state that the Senate approved the agenda for the 40th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. I would like to inform you that for the consideration of the third point, i.e. the statutory auditors, audit firms and public oversight, we will proceed tomorrow after 4:00 p.m. If the Chair of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions is dismissed and the committee presents a candidate for the Chair of the Committee, the agenda will be supplemented by a point: the election of the Chair of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. I would like to inform you that the votes on items 1 and 2 of the agenda will be held immediately after their consideration. If there are amendments, of course there will be a break and the vote will be after the break. [[But which, I'm sorry...]] I've read it once, Mr. Senator. [[But...]] Voting on points one and two, i.e. points concerning degrees and the appeal of the President. The remaining votes will take place at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on degrees and scientific title and on grades and titles in the field of art and certain other laws. The text of the act is contained in print No 486, and the report of the committee In print No 486 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Kazimierz Wind, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Scientific, Education and Sports Committee has examined the Law amending the Law on Scientific Degrees and Titles and on Degrees and Titles in Arts and Certain Other Acts, Senate Printing No 486. A very important element of this law is the strengthening of cooperation between science and the economy. The main element of this strengthening of cooperation is the so-called. a PhD in implementation. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Law on Science Degrees and Science Titles and on Art Degrees and Titles has been strengthened intensively by adding that the doctoral dissertation is the original solution to the scientific problem, the formulation of the "or the original solution to the problem" based on design, construction, technological development. This will increase the cooperation of science with the economy, and thus also increase the innovation of the Polish economy. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of this law, specifying what may constitute a doctoral dissertation, after the words "design, construction and technological work," was added: "implementation," provided that it corresponds to the provisions of paragraph 1. 1. It should be pointed out here that the procedure for conducting doctoral wires remains essentially unchanged, but these new strong accents related to research and implementation and development activities are an important indication for... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I don't know if I'm interrupting because such a terrible noise... [[Ladies and gentlemen, please keep your conversations quiet, and if anyone wants to talk, it's out of the courtroom. You're welcome, Senator.]] These records are an important indication for the committees and scientific councils which conduct doctoral channels. In addition, doctoral studies can be conducted in cooperation with the socio-economic environment, including entrepreneurs. That's what the modified article says. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 5a Law on Higher Education. Another element of strengthening cooperation between science and the economy is the admission, as the guardian of doctoral work, of people with 5 years of experience in research and implementation. In addition, the Act allows the establishment of the implementation doctorate programme. This is a modification of Article. 5 of the Science Finance Act is added point 10b, which allows... And then in the following provisions, in the article. 26 This is described in detail: the Minister establishes the implementation doctorate programme, which aims to create the conditions for the development of cooperation between the scientific community and the socio-economic environment carried out in the framework of the doctoral studies referred to in Article. I've already mentioned that. Financial resources for this purpose may be allocated, by means of an annual competition announced by the Minister, to finance the costs of using research infrastructures for the implementation of research carried out in the framework of fixed doctoral studies and to the financing of a doctoral scholarship during the period of doctoral studies provided for in their programme, no longer than 4 years. Further provisions of the amendment of the Act describe the entities which may submit these applications, also describe the value of these scholarships, so that these are certainly important entries. The Act also amends the election of the chairman of the central committee, providing that the President of the Council of Ministers appoints the chairman of the central committee from among its members, in place of the existing provision, which provided that the President of the Council of Ministers appoints a chairman from among the 2 candidates submitted by the central committee. In this respect, a discussion was held at the committee meeting. An amendment was tabled which was not supported. It should also be said that the time of entry into force of this law has been discussed. This period is extremely short. The legislator pointed out that such provisions apply in situations of real importance. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The 8th Act is said to enter into force on the day following the date of publication. I would like to say that, indeed, matters governed by this law need to be resolved quickly. If the implementation doctorate programme is to start functioning in the 2017/2018 academic year, the law must enter into force quickly enough to allow the Minister responsible for Science and Higher Education to issue implementing acts quickly, as recruitment for these studies takes place in a short time. Also, the other cases need no delay. Therefore, after the discussion, the committee supported the proposal to the High House to adopt a law without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Mr. Senator, right? [[Yes.]] You're welcome, Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u10	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. I consider it appropriate to submit here, but I am interested in whether the designers, the legislators, were referring to specific courses of study. Because, as I understand it, what we're talking about here is technical science. Maybe medical, too. Yeah, what kind of science? What kind of implementation... Can it be, for example. social implementation related to some humanistic solutions, whether it is strictly Technical issues?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? [[Yes.]] Oh, you're welcome now. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u12	Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal, I have a question about what was done in the Seym. Namely, in the course of the work, the original solutions for applying the results of their own research in the economic sphere were rejected as fulfilling the requirements of the doctoral dissertation. Does this article, which has been introduced, mean that the implementation itself, without its own theoretical research, can be considered as meeting the requirements of a doctoral examination, i.e. that other people's scientific efforts may be the basis for granting a doctorate to another person?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u13	Thank you very much. Is there a third question? If it is, you're welcome. There isn't. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u14	As for the answer to Senator Zientarski's question, we did not really discuss this at the committee meeting. But the wording added and voted by the Sejm may suggest that this is a matter of technical science. However, the wording of the design work is still broad. And I must say that the government presentation that was addressed to the Sejm was also much wider in many places. But we, as legislators, think of the Sejm and the Senate. We always try to look at legal solutions on the one hand by promoting the good in them and, on the other hand, by looking at the possible overinterpretation and misuse of these provisions. Indeed, there was a provision in the government's submission that a doctoral dissertation could be an original solution for applying the results of its own research in the economic or social sphere. This record is not here, which does not mean that the relevant doctoral committees and relevant scientific councils cannot consider... After all, please note that the original solution to the scientific problem based on the design can be... I'll share my own reflection here. I talked about it at the committee meeting, so I won't abuse the role of rapporteur. That not every inventor is a scientist. But the science is that we're doing some research. They can be sociological, they can relate to basic sciences, technical sciences, we make some discoveries, some findings, and science is just a scientific reflection on this result of research, giving this a more general dimension, matching to some already existing scientific theories. Nevertheless, the bill under discussion seems to strengthen... You could say that something like this has been possible so far. Nevertheless, there are strong accents to ensure that design, construction, technological and implementation activities are of the right rank. So it's not that it's worse than basic research. So that perhaps the restriction of the mentioned records by the Sejm is a signal, but not quite. Because the scientific councils in this area are fully autonomous, their decisions to grant a doctorate are final, so they are certainly such opportunities, but the main thing, so to speak, is that the intention of this change is directed towards the issues I have been talking about. And now the senator's question... [[I got an indirect response.]] [[The answer's already been made.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u15	Has the answer been answered yet? [[Mr. Senator, I've already...]] Mr. Senator, there's already been an answer. In one statement, there were answers to... [[I'm very happy, especially since the senator attended the hearing yesterday.]] Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? No. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Science and Higher Education has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present his position? Minister Alexander Bobko. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! First of all, I would like to thank you very warmly for introducing this point in such a way and for considering it as the first point. A quick vote can enable us to launch the Minister's programme on implementation PhDs this year, so that it will start functioning in October, that is, in the new academic year. Well, basically, the most important things about the intention of the legislator have already been presented by your President, Senator Wind. This law is intended to actually stress the importance of cooperation between science and industry, and to call more clearly what was de facto also possible to do before. There are no revolutionary changes here. The final decisions on the grant of a doctorate on the basis of an evaluation of the acquis are among the autonomous councils of the department, but this is as if a signal, an incentive for scientific work to be created also in the field of cooperation with industry. In addition, measures are foreseen for this type of activity under the above-mentioned programme, the implementation doctorate, the Minister's programme, which is quite extensive for the following years. So many preliminary explanations. If there are any questions...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u17	We're about to find out. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of questioning to a government representative. Does anyone want to ask that question? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u18	Minister, I am very well reading the intention of the legislator, but I have two minor comments, above all concerning this implementation doctorate. The first question: will it be specially marked? This is the first case. I also agree with the statements that have been made here. This possibility existed already during the time of the Act. Here we are talking about the implementation of the results of the PhD, and now we are talking about the implementation doctorate. The second point relates to the requirements of the ministerial guardians. Here is a point about at least 5 years of experience in R &amp; D. I understand that, but even in driving lessons, the instructor should have at least the same category of driver's license he prepares for a particular trainee, a student. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u19	Thank you very much. Senator Hare. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u20	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question: will the adjective for this new doctorate be defined a priori or a posteriori?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u21	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? You're welcome, Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question regarding the selection of the composition... well, not so much the composition of this central committee as its chairman. So far, the Prime Minister has chosen him from among the two members proposed by this committee, and according to this law he is to choose him from all, and there are over 100 people there. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Aleksander Bobko: Over 200.]] Well, over 200 even. Tell me what was the basis for such a rather radical change.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u23	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u24	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The Act does not provide for any special distinction or other indication of the doctorate of implementation. We will continue to operate with the term "doctorate." That's it. Certain differences within the same degree work and today, as can be said. Another rank is someone with a Ph.D. done at Harvard, another person with a Ph.D. done at some less significant university. And that, and that's a PhD, but... it doesn't make much sense for the legislator to influence that kind of formal sign. The rights of the supporter are actually defined here by his practice, not by having a scientific degree, but by practice in the implementation work. Well, it's a bow, I'd say, towards people with experience in the field of cooperation science. Business, people who didn't get their own degrees. So that I would take this as an emphasis on the importance of people with this kind of competence. And as for the designation of these people, determining their actual role in the doctoral course, the competences in this area are on the side of the faculty board. It's the faculty board or the cable committee that has to make sure everything is as it should be. Senator Hare's question... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I'm sorry. I've calculated how many people are talking at the same time right now and I've counted 7 people. I'm not going to pay any personal attention... but I'm asking you to keep your conversations quiet, because it's very disturbing. You're welcome, Minister.]] Thank you. I'd say this case will be settled at the level of the faculty councils and the wires themselves, though... Well, maybe not really, because if someone's going to be a part of the program... These programmes are very specific, these implementation PhDs. Entry into such a programme, obtaining funding for research for several years These measures are foreseen e.g. for the use of testing apparatus, for its maintenance... It must be said that this is also part of the financial support for infrastructure actions that have been created in recent years. Someone, going into this program, will sort of a priori declare that he will be doing a PhD on the basis of implementations. I can imagine someone doing some research outside of this program, at some point, making a decision. At the level of the promoter, some research team in a particular department board or team, which is cooperating with the economic environment, that this doctorate fits more with the description of implementation than the classic one. So that I think both of these formulas are possible and acceptable here. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And the question of choices. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this amendment is the answer to a specific situation that has arisen. This situation is based on the fact that according to the applicable provisions of the law, procedure and a certain custom 'Cause it's just gone by now, I guess over a decade of this mode it's been going through. These more than 200 professors elected to the central committee at the plenary meeting indicate 2 candidates, and the Prime Minister elects one of these 2. Well, the Prime Minister didn't think she'd point out any of these two people, and the central committee, to my knowledge, wasn't willing to repeat the procedure and propose other candidates. Therefore, there has been a proposal of this kind which, I hope, will solve the problem and make the central committee have a chairman and operate normally. I would like to stress that a group of people from whom the Prime Minister will elect the President... These are people with the same mandate, in the sense that they are professors, which means they have academic status, and have been democratically chosen by the environment. They're not political nominees or anybody else. Each of these 200 people received a mandate, was elected by the environment in an election procedure as a member of the central committee. So in this sense, each of these people has a mandate to represent the academic community, and I would like to emphasise that here and to draw attention to it. So that this change is procedurally important, but when it comes to matter or substance, it doesn't change anything that radically, because the chairman of the committee also has a mandate given by the academic community.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u25	Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I have a question about the programs you mentioned. I'm talking about whether or not these programs I understand that this is the way it's gonna be. Each year the Minister responsible for Science and Higher Education will launch. My question is this: have you worked in the Ministry of Science and Higher Education on the possible amount that would be passed on to the first inaugural program, which I hope will be built next year after the entry into force of the law? And second question. There are cataloged criteria that such a potential PhD student must meet, and I have this question, Minister: will there be any preference for the fields of science that will be chosen? Because what happens in a situation where the number of potential PhD students will definitely exceed the value of the program in a given year? What substantive criteria will determine that Jan Kowalski and not Tadeusz Nowak will be included in this programme? And that's the last question, third. Namely, what happens when a PhD student receiving support from the program doesn't defend his PhD in his final year of doctoral studies? Because that's what we're talking about. Will he be obliged to reimburse the funds he will receive under the support from the programme? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u27	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u28	Yes, the level of the measures envisaged has been defined in the Act as a maximum ceiling and in my opinion it is very optimistic, especially as if they were further... This is a little bit of a mechanism that the further we plan, the more optimistic we are when it comes to the amount of resources. Well, these are serious amounts, which shows, in my opinion, the importance and importance of this whole undertaking to stimulate the research environment, to cooperate and to participate in this area: the science of the environment. So here for 2017 there is a maximum of over 5 million, for 2018 26... That is, the number of these people, beneficiaries of the programme, will increase, because these are 4 years of programmes, i.e. there will be cumulation of the number of people. As far as areas are concerned, it is such a metaphor that our projects and plans are somehow correlated with the Responsible Development Strategy of the Ministry of Development and the Prime Minister of Morawiecki, so there will certainly be a discussion every year and there will be some decision to allocate more resources to one or another field, scientific area or area of cooperation science. Industry, which is particularly important from the point of view of the state's strategic objectives. Of course, it is not in the law that it is written, it does not have to be, and it probably should not be, but it will be an implementing element, connected with the Minister's action, which, every year, by issuing a regulation, will run this kind of programme. And all the problems, the difficulties in proceding, in identifying beneficiaries, in clearing beneficiaries, there's nothing new here. For a number of programmes, people take specific commitments and there is a problem, which will happen if they fail to comply with these commitments. Right? So that in that sense it's nothing new, nothing special comes out here.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u29	Thank you very much. I don't see any more questions to ask. Then thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Piotr Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u30	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as the implementation doctorate is concerned, it seems to me that we should actually have no objection here. This doctorate is acceptable, it is probably useful, and a doctorate with such a profile, but without special distinction, occurs in many countries, and most importantly, in the case of so-called. all procedures remain the same as before. This is a normal doctorate. There has been an extension of the definition of what is considered to be doctoral work. As rightly here someone, asking questions, pointed out, so far it was also possible, but it was not expressed explicite, so directly. The introduction of this programme and the recruitment of PhD students with such a profile is an additional, important and probably beneficial issue. There was also another problem in the questions. This is an important problem. It would be even more important in habilitation, but fortunately so-called. implementation habilitation, which was in the original project, fell and I will not dwell on it. I think it's okay. In any case, Professor Żaryn raised an important problem, asked whether the results of other people's research could be implemented here. This is a very important question, and even more important would be in terms of habilitation. I would say this: actually, in the case of most sciences, we implement earlier achievements, starting with the principles of Newton's dynamics. But there's a question: which things did humanity take, considered to be its own, and used them always, and which things are fresh enough to say that we use other people's results for our own benefit to get a title to get a doctor's degree? Here there is no other choice but to leave this decision to the board of the department, reviewers, committee that opinions it, because always and everywhere there are loans, there are customs and requirements, rules on how to get out of these loans, especially literal or almost literal, by quoting. There is always a certain discretion here, and it is the legitimate body that decides whether a given achievement, in this case of an implementation nature, meets the criteria of scientific work, and thus gives a contribution which should be rewarded with a doctoral degree. I would also like to make part of the second point, which was one question, namely the election of the chairman of the central committee. To date, the chairman of the central committee has been appointed by the Prime Minister from among the 2 candidates submitted by the central committee. The election for the central committee took place quite a long time ago. The President was not appointed because the Prime Minister did not agree with the selection of the candidates submitted to him and did not decide to appoint a President from among the 2 submitted persons. And actually there was a patch, which leads to a backlog, among others. in the award of a doctor's degree, currently for a significant number of people. You can discuss, you can debate whether this situation is forced by the Prime Minister of the Government, because the Prime Minister does not force anything to appoint someone. So that this change of law could be the result of political extortion. Perhaps it is. But that's not what I want to talk about. In the amendment, I tabled it at the committee meeting, but it was not adopted because the committee adopted the law without amendments, and I propose a compromise which is a reasonable compromise and would allow us to get out of this situation without changing the rule. In the amendment, we propose, including colleagues, a colleague of Slugocki and Grodzki, that the committee present three candidates. It's a small change, but it would have its consequences and create additional opportunities. Furthermore, the aim is to maintain what is contained in the article. 5 of the Act, i.e. the annulment of the applications so far submitted and the re-scheduled appointment of the President of this time of 3 candidates. Ladies and gentlemen, this kind of compromise would, in my opinion, have great advantages. Namely, the subjectivity of the central committee group, which presents candidates for its chairman, would be preserved, but at the same time it would be like a new hand, i.e. The candidates who have been notified so far... In fact, accepting this amendment would have forced three candidates to re-submit this time. That is why we are very much promoting this amendment, because it would satisfy the scientific community, the central committee, would leave this group with considerable autonomy. This is 228 people and at the same time would create room for compromise. When there are 3 people, this compromise can be reached in a variety of ways if, of course, there is an unofficial discussion about potential solutions to this issue. It would be a good compromise, not a situation where there's actually a completely open field... Of course, the Minister, answering the question here, is right that at the moment, this group of 228 people, who are part of the central committee, are chosen persons, that it is in some sense a flower of Polish science and that the elections to the central committee are fully accepted by the environment. But the environment is concerned and misunderstood the proposal that the government has made in the bill. I repeat: it is not excluded that the change of law that follows here is not... forced by the government by the lack of approval of two candidates. So it would be a new opening. I don't have any illusions... But I would appeal for this amendment. Unfortunately, the adoption of this amendment will, of course, drag the whole matter out, because it will cause that the law would have to go back to the Sejm if it had been adopted. But I think it's worth doing, and that's what I call for. And I propose an amendment on behalf of the persons mentioned above. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u31	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you very much. About taking... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. I'll ask Senator Grodzki to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u32	Mrs. Marshal! Dear guests! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The changes proposed by the government, in general, when it comes to implementation PhDs, do not raise any particular controversy, provided that we respect the quality of these PhDs, because if we make them a farce, they will be treated as March habilitations and we will talk about April PhDs. I hope that doesn't happen. It seems that the Act protects the quality criteria here. And speaking of how to choose the chairman of the Central Selection Board, I have to say that for those outside the world of science, it may be a little incomprehensible or a little alien, but for people of science it is extremely important. Minister Bobko has made this very elegantly, but let's face it, he's been stalemate for six months. The Prime Minister has not decided to choose from among the 2 proposed candidates. This causes the CKK to have no president for six months, there is a vacancy in this position. This means that there are no opportunities for dialogue, no opportunities for conversation. And that's why we're gonna change the bill. I would like to make you aware that we are giving Prime Minister Szydło greater prerogatives than the Holy Father. Because I'll remind you that if the Holy Father is to choose a candidate for bishop here or there... [[Oh, Jesus, Mary!]] ...it gets the so-called. tertio, he gets three names from the episcopate... [[Terno.]] Terno, I'm sorry. But anyway, that's three names. Terno. These are three names from the entire episcopate. And there is no full freedom, which is an expression of respect for the autonomy and wisdom of the episcopate of the country. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And so is the central... [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet, because this is bothering the senator. I'd like your attention, please.]] Thank you very much, Marshal. Today... I don't know if the weather's causing it, but there's still a noise like a hive. Not only during my speech, but also during your speech, Professor Wind. The compromise proposed by your senator, Professor Wach, is a compromise that allows everyone to come out of this impasse with a face. On the one hand, the CKK retains its autonomy and independence, and on the other hand, the Prime Minister may have a greater choice and finally make a decision. Because in the case of a body that is so important to the world of science, one cannot leave an unestablished role as chairman. It's such a bad tradition. We haven't had a chief pharmaceutical inspector in over a year and a half, and that's why we're having a drug problem. You can't do that. Reasonable, prudent governance requires that selectable bodies are constructed intelligently, reasonablely, respecting their autonomy and, of course, safeguarding the interests of the world of science and the interests of the Polish state. Do not be surprised that scientists treat this change, which is not so insignificant at all, it is fundamental As an attempt to assassinate the world of science. We need to be clear about this. And that is why the proposal made by Senator Wach seems reasonable, acceptable to both parties to get out of this situation. Therefore, I would ask you very much to consider this amendment seriously. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u33	Thank you very much, Senator. I'll ask Senator Jan Zarin to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo! By the way: of course, the Pope receives 3 names under the so-called. terra, but power within the meaning of the teaching of the Church also allows the Pope to depart from this rule. [[But not by breaking...]] Without breaking... because he has the right to walk away from this rule. But that's by the way, of course. [[And he never broke it.]] But there is something about a few things that have been raised here both by one and the other side of our House. At least from my perspective. As far as the election of the chairman of the Central Selection Board is concerned, I understand that there is a provision here to resolve the problem. Because it's really a problem when there's no president for six months. However, I would urge very strongly that this person chosen by you, the Prime Minister, immediately implement the draft amendment of the law, which is a compromise at this point, which you said Senator Grodzki was talking about. Because undoubtedly, in the context of the autonomy of the scientific world, there is a difference between the choice of 2 people and the choice of 220 people. And we all understand that, of course. I think such a gesture would be most appropriate. At the moment, we need to get out of this situation and it seems that this solution is the most appropriate, although it is not the solution for eternity. So much for this point. My question was, of course, intentional, and thank you very much, Professor Wach, for raising the point of my question. Because the world of science is also experiencing various weaknesses, which we know very well. One of these weaknesses is what is very difficult to prove and, in fact, outside the moral sphere, there is no legal provision that clearly determines this issue. The problem of plagiarism. The plagiarism problem is, and we have nothing to pretend he's not here. And we need to consider whether new legal solutions do not hinder the solution to this problem, or even whether In fact, it's the other way around. They don't create new threats. My question, in turn, was intended in the sense that in fact... As you know, the board of departments will decide this, here the paths are as worked out for decades and there is nothing to change that. But you have to be aware that there may be a very clear problem with the tension between the author of the implementation doctorate and the theoretical scientific background, which in this case always consists of specific names. These people may feel used to work on which they no longer have dominion, and whose results are implemented against their intentions and their logic of thinking. The wording of the plagiarism is very capacious and it is necessary, I think, at least, to be aware of this threat. I would also like to support Professor Wach's statement that it was very good that this procedure was not extended to the next degree in the structure of scientific promotion, i.e. to habilitation. For today we have an impression as a world of science Of course, it can be wrong because it comes from the older generation's experience towards the younger one, which always results in a certain imperfection of the assessment, but we certainly have this impression as a world of science. The scientific value of PhDs, for various reasons, has decreased and, as a rule, the availability of achieving this degree of science has increased. Therefore, it should be more important to ensure that the habilitation does not constitute a space in which it can sneak through, in colloquially speaking, the wrong person, because, as you know, she, having a degree of a habilitation doctor, will co-create Polish science. So, of course, one must keep the threshold, which would be, if possible, a guarantee not to lower the level of Polish science. There is, of course, a concern behind this wording, which is the result of a novelty which is contained in this legal record, that it is only in practice that we will see whether these implementation PhDs will actually become so good that they will affect the development of the Polish economy, and then we will be able to say about success, or whether they will become a relativized form of PhD, between theory and practice, which between them will in fact be ineffective from the point of view of the goal, i.e. the actual implementation. Everything that is in between gives rise to the suspicion that it will serve de facto, so to speak, a reduction in the above-mentioned intentional statutory record in which the doctorate of implementation is referred to. So let the quality guarantee remain on the side of science, scientists and faculty councils. But you have to tell yourself, by example. I'm going back to the beginning. Laws on plagiarism, copyright, that the law can either help, or, unfortunately, disturb very much, so that scientists and faculty councils can deal in practice with cases of unreliable learning. And in my opinion, it will be necessary to check whether the law discussed here is in practice part of the category of such obstructions for faculty councils. Unfortunately, the councils of the departments do not consist of the saints themselves, sometimes they consist of people who for various reasons do not want to see the plagiarism, even if something really is a plagiarism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u35	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Professor Kazimierz Wind. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u36	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, senators! I would like to present a few thoughts, in the polemic part, in addition to my statement as rapporteur for the committee. The senator here raised the issue of the implementation of other people's results. I'd say yes and no. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, as I understand it, the board of the department or the institute that runs the wire or the committee is primarily examining the added value. This is important. It's not like someone's building any knowledge from scratch. Our civilization, you can say, consumes the achievements of our predecessors. There's a accumulation of knowledge. Newton was summoned here, you could call others. In fact, there was even an expression, perhaps Einstein's, that there was a little cloud, that something was missing, a little bit of a theory, and suddenly it turned out that this little thing was out of line with the whole theory. Well, that's how we do research, we develop knowledge. And it seems that, above all, the difficulty of implementing... There are implementations that do not involve any difficulties. I don't know if that happens often. Maybe rarely. But what problems have been solved by implementing? And it's often the case that there are little fragments that suddenly, as it turns out, grow into great theories. And I have to say that I know this from my own experience. I had some small problem in my doctorate about eliminating disturbances in computer systems and I developed this idea of CoDesign, Hardware/Software CoDesign, which today is a separate field of knowledge. And then nobody actually talked about it. So that these are very, very interesting issues related to technical sciences and other sciences, especially basic ones, as well as the methodology of science. 'Cause we're also going into the doctor's degree process area, and that's going to be some kind of experience, too. I think that these records that we are introducing today... that this discussion is supposed to possibly enrich future consumers of these records. I think they're experienced people and they can handle it. Another case is plagiarism. I must say that I look at these issues with some distance. Of course, the academic forum leads such a column, a large one. She's even so aggressive sometimes. We know that every pathology needs to be fought. We need to resist it. I have the impression that in technical science The plagiarisms are much more difficult to achieve and they are easier to identify. Most recently, IT tools have been developed to look for plagiarisms. Well, it's mostly about content plagiarism, because we're comparing texts here, and we know that in science, especially in basic or technical sciences, it's much more important to discover it, research itself. In the field of technical sciences, the defense of diploma or doctoral work focuses on the description, but somewhere before that there is a given phenomenon or device that had to be built, the research that had to be carried out. And it's harder here because the anti-Plagiarism systems don't work here. It's true, isn't it? Yeah, but we have patents, there's publications, there's content... There is protection of intellectual property and you can try to compare it. Of course, it happens that in different parts of the world, two different people will come up with the same thing, and there are examples. Our eminent scientist, physicist Smoluchowski, in parallel with Einstein, which Einstein respected, examined... So it happens. Here's another thing. It is important to emphasise The Minister has already talked about this, but since it came up in the discussion, I also want to stress it. That it will be a PhD without any additions that it will be a PhD like all others, but there is some extension, strengthening the accents concerning design, implementation and construction activities. Of course, this diploma will in some sense be judged, just like the Master's degree. Everyone looks at him and asks him, "And from what university, and what was the program of these studies, what grades did this graduate have, and what was the subject of his diploma work?" That's how it's gonna be with doctoral work. And for some it will be a disadvantage, and for others it will be an advantage. I hope that this implementation PhD will be as high as previous PhDs, that there will be recognition of the scientific environment for this type of activity and above all recognition of the economic environment, because we know that we currently have very few scientists in the economy. There's a need... I must say, I was at a conference where one of the speakers suggested that professors be transferred from science to the economy. However, the problem is that there is no excess in science here, and besides, another type of scientist is needed in the economy, with another slope. So I think that's a step in that direction. We seek out whether or not we promote people with additional qualifications, which will result in a kind of reinvigoration in the field of innovation. Moreover, it should be noted that we have in general very few people working in the research and implementation and scientific field per thousand inhabitants, in this respect we are in the tail of Europe. As for the PhD level, because it's been elevated, I think... There was a moment when Poland started implementing the Bologna system and there came a third degree of education. Well, it was a clear signal that these PhDs were meant to be more. And if there's gonna be more, they have to be on a lower level. This is a normal phenomenon. I think that's how it went, colloquially speaking, it was such an impulse, but that doesn't mean... Many scientific councils from departments or institutes guard this level. I'm always afraid that we don't offend those who have very good doctorates, because those who have weak doctorates, maybe that doesn't apply. Right? My faculty board has already refused to give a degree to a habilitated doctor several times, so this is... On this occasion I would like to talk about the great role of scientific councils of departments or committees, they have an absolute impact on these PhDs and habilitations. It's important to have autonomy here, but... these discussions, which are in the context of Law 2.0, so that these powers concern the university, not the faculty, are disturbing me a little bit. We know that the concept of the scientific community is very important in the academic world. These are people who work together. For example, the faculty board is an important scientific community. It's not an administrative body, it's a scientific discussion, a scientific formation. Sometimes the thematic scope covers several areas, but they are very similar, and all these doctoral or habilitation wires are an opportunity for scientific discussion. I have been on the doctoral committee many times, and I know that such a discussion often goes beyond the subject of my doctorate. It is mainly attended by committee representatives, but also by invited persons, because these are always open wires. So this role of scientific councils, the role of the environment in which it is discussed at a very, very substantive level, is extremely important. And that's the last thought. The example of the Pope and the Church, the pragmatism of the Church, was cited here. I would like these examples to inspire us more often, in such a holistic view, and not just because of one excerpt, because we know that it always disturbs the picture of the whole. We would like to draw more from this, especially in the area of the system of values and social science of the Church, as I wish you and I. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u37	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, please take the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u38	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to protest, Minister. I would like to protest against the statement that Polish science is opposed and that Polish scientists object. It's just a narrow clipping. In my deep conviction This is an expression of the sympathy of a given person, a given group represented by this person, but it is not the voice of Polish science, because Polish science, contrary to appearances, consists of a whole array of scientists, including those who are not in the central committee and who did not influence this statement, about which the senator, my predecessor, spoke. As for these changes that have been proposed here, I personally work in the field of technical sciences, industrial sciences. I am very happy and happy to welcome these changes. They are very much needed for this simple reason because there is no possibility of developing technical science if it does not serve the economy, e.g. the implementation of new machinery. In this respect, the people who implemented, produced or constructed machines... Well, in science, it's been seen as something worse so far. I say this with full conviction, because these people, not doing basic science, but building machines, were seen as craftsmen. Unfortunately, from such craft work, even if you have several dozen patents, nothing results, because patents are still seen in Poland as something quite worse than the publication on the Philadelphia list for 30 and 40 points. The patent is much lower in this hierarchy, but the patent, not the publication on the Philadelphia list, is the recognition of uniqueness on a global scale. Of course, I understand that it is difficult to talk about patents in humanities. It's almost impossible. This is also very difficult in natural sciences, but this has not given the technical scientists who have engaged in a real change in the current economy, in particular in the construction of machines. I'm sorry that this shift stopped at the doctorate because there are a lot of perfectly educated doctors who... I met these people at my college. These are specialists absolutely unique on the scale of Poland, unique in a given field of construction, who will never become professors precisely because they are engaged in the real implementation of modern solutions to industry. And in this situation, ladies and gentlemen, there is no time They don't physically have it. To do the acquisition of Philadelphia publications. It's a very often art for art. Getting access to a highly scored magazine without getting involved for a few months is practically impossible for an outsider, because the introduction to this environment must be preceded by... Otherwise, highly scored magazines include publications of people who already have a high index. You can't just jump into this environment all of a sudden. And so either these doctors were involved in the construction and were so-called. craftsmen, or they did basic science, and then, unfortunately, they have absolutely no idea of reality. It ended in such a way that after the liquidation of subsequent plants 'Cause that's the sequence of events. The technical professors are missing, as was mentioned here. Further plants are being closed, unfortunately professors of theorists deny the technical sciences of professors of practitioners. Well, unfortunately, I'm sorry to say, that's what happens at technical universities. The effect is that when orders or proposals for technical solutions appear, there really is no one to do them. And people who could do that have too few titles to get funding. And that's the trap we've fallen into, a trap that's been a prostrate to the last 20 years of negligence. I mean, this practical science... those practitioners who could do something, we wiped it out as Poland. I am convinced that this proposed change is a step in a very good direction. It's a pity it's just a doctorate, it's a pity it didn't go any further, to implement... I was wondering what to do about it in the field of habilitation in technical sciences. I'm sorry about that. I know that these professors of theorists are unable to offer industry any concrete solution, because they just didn't deal with it, they dealt with highly scored theoretical articles in Philadelphia magazines. Attention on how to change the election of the President. Since in the greatest democracy in the world, recognized, very often invoked in the past year, American democracy, it took more than a year to choose a successor to the United States Supreme Court after the death of Judge Scalia to choose a successor, and in order to choose a successor, it was necessary to change the right to choose... So I wouldn't worry at all that we're making a change to elect a president. This is, I think, a very similar situation. And the Senate of the United States of America is changing its choice to make a choice. If this choice was blocked, then any method that makes it possible to make a change is, in my opinion, valid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u39	Thank you very much. And I would like the floor of Senator Tomasz Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u40	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I only briefly, in the form of an explanation. I never once said that Polish science protests. I was talking about the fact that some people take it as an attack on Polish science, I was talking about independence, but I didn't talk about protest for a moment. I would like to thank my colleague Senator Pekkis for bringing up an important topic, which is generally the construction and organization of the science world in Poland. Except it's not the subject of this particular bill. But in fact, such a large debate on the shape of Polish science may still be ahead of us. I will only remind you of a Latin maxim that is very useful in science, Amicus Plato, sed magica amica veritas, which can be translated loosely so that a friend can be a great authority, but the most important friend of the scientist is the truth. And as we stick to that, I'm sure Polish science will be fine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u41	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senators Piotr Wach, Waldemar Slugocki and Tomasz Grodzki. The discussion is closed. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Alexander Bobko: Can I still?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Minister, in a moment, I am closing the discussion, and since legislative proposals have been tabled, I have a question for the Minister: would you like to comment on the proposals put forward? I take it you do. Come on in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u42	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Word of explanation, addition to this discussion on a change in the way the President is elected. I would particularly like to comment... but I would also like to reassure the senator, Professor Grodzki, whom I very much appreciate for a certain balance in the statements. Well, the word "bomb" is completely inappropriate. Well, let's not exaggerate, there's no such thing. I would like to stress that this amendment is incidental, in the spirit that Senator Pekkis was talking about. The situation is that the election of the chairman of the central committee in this procedure is probably the last time. We're working on a new law and we're planning a different construction of this body. We will then have time for a wider debate on the location of these academic bodies versus political rhythms. So that it is kind of a one-time change and it would be good to make it work. In fact, it is not good that for 4 months it has not been for six months, but for 4 months, because in January there were those elections, those indications The president isn't here. At the moment, there is a chance to do so quite efficiently and without any profound damage to the autonomy of the academic community. On issues related to the implementation doctorate, we had here a foretaste of a very interesting discussion, which will take place before us and which will take place on the occasion of the planned new law on higher education. Next year, we're gonna have to process her. I would just say that legislative intentions will slightly verify life and practice at the level of faculty councils, in the area of cooperation between scientific institutions and implementation actors. The legislator's intention is unambiguous and actually shared by the majority. However, there is concern or some question marks about how this will work in life. And here are some surprises, including surprises in minus, probably possible. As for this very interesting issue that Senator Zaryn raised, it could increase the field of action for I'm looking for an elegant word. Some phantoms who might want to... I don't think I'd see it that way. I think that, more than the problem of plagiarism, intellectual property is at stake, and the issue of intellectual property is today a very complicated area, a very complicated problem, which is also regulated by other laws. So I don't really see that we should have a bigger problem with plagiarism as a result of this amendment. Although, well, a Pole can... Okay, that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u43	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Science, Education and Sport to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held after a half-hour break, which I will announce in a moment. I'm declaring a recess for an hour... [[Message.]] Oh, here you go, an announcement. I'm asking you to read it, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u44	The meeting of the Scientific, Education and Sports Committee on the examination of the amendments tabled to the Law on Scientific Degrees will take place immediately after the announcement of the break in room 176.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u45	Thank you so much, and I'm announcing a recess until 12.50 p.m. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 19 to 12 minutes 50]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u46	I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on degrees and scientific title and on grades and titles in the field of art and certain other laws. A meeting of the Scientific, Education and Sport Committee took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 486 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Kazimierz Wind, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u47	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Committee on Science, Education and Sport considered the amendments tabled during the debate on the Law amending the Law on Scientific Degrees and Titles and on Degrees and Titles in Art and on certain other laws and after a brief discussion asks the High House to adopt this Law without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u48	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Senator Waldemar Sługocki, Senator Tomasz Grodzki and Senator Piotr Wach have submitted their conclusions during the discussion. No. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 75 senators voted against, 50 against, 25 against. [[Voting No 2]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Scientific Degrees and Titles and on Degrees and Titles in Art and on certain other Acts. We proceed with the second item on the agenda: the appeal of the chairman of the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions. I would like to inform you that Senator Michał Seweryński has resigned from his duties as Chairman of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The motion to dismiss Senator Michał Sewerynski as Chairman of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions was welcomed by the Senior Convention. The draft resolution, prepared by the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, is included in print No 500. Please take the floor of the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Sławomir Rybicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee unanimously adopted the draft resolution today and recommends that the High House adopt a draft resolution which I will read on the appeal of the Chairman of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. §1: Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, dismissing Senator Michał Sewerynski from his role as Chairman of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. I §2: Resolution shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u50	Thank you very much, Senator. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? No. We therefore proceed with the vote on the appeal of the Chair of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. According to Art. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 Rules of Procedure of the Senate voting on the appeal of the chairman of the committee in the event that he resigns in writing from his duties shall be made public. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 76 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 3]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the appeal of the Chairman of the Committee on Human Rights, the Law and Petitions. Thank you very much to the President, Professor Michael Sewerynski, for running the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would remind you that item 3 of the agenda, i.e. The statutory auditor's bill, audit firms and public oversight will be processed tomorrow after 4:00 p.m. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act on investments in the construction or conversion of the Świnoujście watercourse to a depth of 12.5 meters. The text of the Act is contained in print No 469 and the report of the Commission In print No 469 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Jack Włosowicz, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u51	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, last week's meeting... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in session. Excuse me. You're welcome, Senator.]] Thank you. At last week's meeting of the Joint Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, a law on investments in the construction or conversion of the Świnoujście watercourse was discussed to a depth of 12.5 metres. It's a government project. The lower House of our Parliament passed this law at its thirty-nineth meeting. [[Talking in the O.R.]] It is worth noting that 445 Members supported this initiative, only 1 Member was against it. This investment will be financed by the Operational Programme This law is needed, among others. so that the investment can be made within that time limit and benefit from the funding. EU funding is foreseen at 85%. The total cost of the investment is PLN 1 billion 385 million, so 85% financing is PLN 1 billion 177 million, and Poland's own contribution amounts to PLN 207 million. The joint committees recommend the adoption of a law. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u52	Thank you, Senator rapporteur. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I can see that, Senator Grodzki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u53	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have a question. This is a long-term investment launched a few good years ago and long-built. Are these plans, as I suppose, part of the continuation of what was initiated for the previous government, or are these new plans? And how was this dealt with at the committee meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u54	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u55	Mr. Senator, this is, of course, a continuation of the work that was done earlier. As I said, the bill serves as a means for us to complete our work by 2020 so that we can fully fit into the current EU perspective and use the resources we have at our disposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u56	Senator Komarnicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u57	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have this question: is there a complete construction project and is it approved as regards the authorities of the town of Świnoujście?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u58	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u59	Mr Senator, we did not discuss such detailed information at the committee meeting, but I know that the Minister has such information. So I suggest you ask this question to the Minister, because the whole plan for months is at the disposal of the Ministry. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u60	Thank you. Senator Slugocki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Senator rapporteur, you probably won't know the answer to that question either... although I don't know, I'll check it out. Since you didn't talk at the committee's meeting about the documentation, was the time-cezure within which this project was to be carried out, and the financial resources, the financial assembly may have been the subject of the committee's work or not? Didn't you touch this thread? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u62	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u63	Like I said before, we didn't talk about the details, but in general the bill is prepared to make it to 2020.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u64	Mr. Senator Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for you. Please tell us what the depths of this watercourse are so far. Because, as I understand it, it is to be deepened to 12.5 m. What are the depths so far, and how much will this deepening be in relation to the present state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u66	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u67	I'm going to answer a little bit like on the other hand, because these data weren't given. What is the purpose of this deepening? For example, up to now, 16 000 t of Świnoujście Szczecin can be affected by ships with a displacement of up to 12.5 m, and up to 40,000 t can be affected by ships with a displacement of up to 40,000 t when it comes to bulk carriers. When it comes to, for example, cruise ships, instead of shuttles that can accommodate thousands of people, can be affected by ferries with a capacity of 3,000 passengers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u68	Good. Mr. Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u69	Mr. Senator, you just said that the idea was to proceed over this bill so that this investment could be carried out by 2022. And what's gonna happen in 2022 that... [[...until 2022.]] Until 2022. What is the reason for this border date? Why 2022? Why it will be, for example. 31 December 2021 and not 1 July 2022?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u70	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u71	This date is determined by the continuation of the Operational Programme of the Infrastructure and Environment, which ends in 2020.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u72	Thank you. Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u73	Thank you very much. Senator rapporteur, I presume this bill is a specialty, that is, this investment will be treated as an investment of a public goal, so the law allows for quick process of investment or rapid implementation.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u74	Yes. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u75	Thank you. Now I have a question. Is Nord Stream going through this dredging area or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u76	No, from what we discussed at the committee meeting, it appears that it is not, because it is only from Świnoujście to Szczecin, and Nord Stream is before this section, in the sea area and not in the flood area. [[So he doesn't cause any problems?]] No, there's no collision here. whether it's legal or technical.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u77	Thank you. I don't see any more people willing to ask questions. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Jerzy Materna like to speak on this bill? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna: Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Commission! Thank you for the opportunity to speak. I would like to stress once again that this government bill aims to improve the preparation and implementation of the investment project on access to the seaport in Szczecin, under the title "Modernisation of the Świnoujście Waterway." The general cost of this project is covered by the Operational Programme.Infrastructure and the environment. 85% These are EU funds of PLN 1 billion 177 million and the cost of the state is PLN 207 million 75 thousand. Here's what I'm gonna say: January... It is already the decision of the Minister of Development and Finance to finance from the state budget, i.e. the State has already secured the funds for this investment. It's about one thing. It's about getting us to implement it as soon as possible. We have a schedule, I can present this investment to complete it before 2022, because on the one hand we have Brexit, and on the other hand the Ministry of Development tells us to implement this procedure as soon as possible and to actually finish it. In 2020 there is an end to the perspective and principles of n+2. We want the last instalment, which is around 340 million and 290 million from the European Union... We don't want to lose it, because then we'd have to pay the 290 million out of the state budget. This special act concerns only the procedure for issuing an environmental opinion, without a development plan. I repeat, all other things are, will be in the process, except for the development plan. Yesterday the municipality of Szczecin issued a development plan, but it is not yet the municipality of Goleniów. We want to avoid these procedures because there may be a long waiting period. First of all, we want this investment, which is strategic for the security of our country. We're talking about a stretch from Świnoujście to Szczecin... Nord Stream has nothing to do with it, it's another depth, there's about 14 meters. We are talking about depths up to 12.5 m so that you can, as the Senator rapporteur said... So far, ships with a capacity of 16,000 t could swim there, now, if this track is deepened, they could be ships carrying up to 40,000 t. When we talk about passenger ships, so far it has been about 1,000 passengers, now it will be possible to carry up to 3,000 passengers. The containers that were swimming had up to 1,000 800 containers, and they could have a capacity of 4,000. These are important issues for the development of our inland waterway transport. As you all know, the Odrzańska road is about to take off. We introduced this program. We really mean... This is the continuation of the work of previous governments. Let me remind you that the years 2001 and 2004 was the first stage of modernization, the years 2007 and 2013 was the second stage, and now there is the third stage, which is to deepen to 12.5 m. This is the continuation of the work of previous governments. This was discussed in the Sejm, in the Senate at the committee meeting and there is general agreement. I ask the High House to accept this very important specialty for our country. It's really all about speeding up the development plans. The rest, the other procedures are preserved here, and we don't want to be here... We're worried we might lose 290 million, so I think it's worth it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u79	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of questioning to a government representative. Mr. Senator Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u80	Thank you very much. Minister! I would repeat that question I asked you to the Senator of the rapporteur. This watercourse, if I remember, because I've been swimming it many times, it's a few episodes, there's the Piast Canal that runs... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna:...]] ...from the sea to the Szczecin flood, then there is a section in the Szczecin flood, and then, so in simplification, there is the third section, it is the Oder spill and this fragment which leads directly to the entrance to the port in Szczecin. As I understand it, the entire investment, deepening to 12.5 m, concerns the entire watercourse... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna: For a length of 67 km, the whole section, from Szczecin to Świnoujście.]] That's right, that's right. But tell me if I have good information. If I remember correctly, the depth of this track, at least the Piast track, the Piast Channel, is within 8.5 m... [[No, it's deeper.]] Do I have good information, or is it different?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u81	So far there have been opportunities for vessels requiring a depth of 9.5 m, the track had a depth of about 10 m and it was known that every year it had to be deepened. A multi-annual plan to dredge the track is one thing. This has nothing to do with what we want to do now, which is to dredge up to 12.5 m. The goal, as I said, is to achieve a displacement of 40 thousand, the transition from 16 thousand t to 40 thousand t, from 1 thousand passengers to 3 thousand and to increase the number of containers from 1 thousand 800 to 4 thousand. And the annual dredging of the watercourse is a separate matter. These investments are independent, because the deepening of this segment requires each year, and in terms of greater deepening, this is what this project envisages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u82	Minister, you mentioned Brexit. So I'm going to ask, what does Brexit have to do with this bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u83	Mr. Marshal, we all know that there may be concerns that there may be a faster exit of England... of Britain from the European Union. That's why we... The Ministry of Development is constantly calling, asking everyone, and marshals, and ministers to speed up the implementation of all the programmes so as not to lose any euro in terms of programming, which is foreseen for 2014 and 2020 with a perspective of plus 2 years. According to the schedule for the end of the quarter of this year, it is planned that the competition for the selection of the contractor in the formula design and build... The senator asked how this would be carried out. So there's gonna be design and construction. This phase will end in the first quarter of 2018 and there will be a next stage, already the completion of the works, the end of which is scheduled for the third quarter of 2022. And we want this schedule not to change, because every month after that, it could cause a loss of resources, and we don't want that. I think we're all thinking about spending every euro we have programmed. That's the only reason... This is the continuation of the project of the previous government, state government, government of the Civic Platform and PSL. We just want to speed things up, because we're afraid that things are different. as regards the adoption of a decision in the case of the municipality of Goleniów They'll delay the process and then it can be different. That's why we want to stick to the schedule we have, and we want to make it happen. Because it's important. I'm telling you again. The investment for our country, for shipping, has an impact on increasing the rank of the port of Szczecin... That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u84	I see. So there's a concern that Britain... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna: It is better to prevent thread from losing...]] He'll come out with the money, he'll come out with his money. Yes? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna: Please?]] There's a fear that Britain will come out with its money. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u85	I am informed by the Ministry of Development that the situation... As you know, last year was a little complex... the resources used this year. Of course, it's changing now. We, too, as a resort, want to make sure that we just make it in time for us to do it. And that's it. I don't go any deeper when the United Kingdom comes out of the Union, I want it to go out at the latest, and it's best that the United Kingdom doesn't go out at all... But it's not up to me anymore. We all know what's going on and we don't know the deadline, but we have to fight for our resources.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u86	Thank you, Minister. It's clear. Senator Komarnicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u87	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. In part, Minister, you have already explained a point to me by presenting a schedule. My question is only motivated by concern. As you may know or guess, many projects that have been misconstrued or agreed at the wrong time have put many initiatives and lost money. And I'm very glad that I understood the Minister's statement. This project is implemented according to the schedule and that all the design arrangements are behind us or we are on time. Is that so, Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u88	Yes. I can confirm that. By the end of the fourth quarter we want to tender for the construction of the formula design and build. We will finish this phase in the first quarter of 2018 and proceed with the next phase, which will be from the first quarter of 2018 to the third quarter of 2022. That's what the schedule says. Of course, different things can happen, but we want to avoid it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u89	That's why I paid attention to it, because it's very important and subtle... But in the light of the fact that I have spoken, thank you, Mr. Marshal, I would like to thank the Minister for being the first minister in the Senate for a year and a half, who remembers that this is the continuation of previous governments. It's starting to make me very happy... [[And to bother you.]] ...that such voices are beginning to appear on the side of the PiS. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u90	And I'll add, maybe I'm in a ministry where I can speak right now. above divisions, because all the laws we make are in accord supported by the states and by the rulers. And the point is, sometimes where you can do it, over and over and over again. Well, that's my part. [[That's why I've been paying attention.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u91	Thank you. [[Only to keep you in this government.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna: It's not up to me anymore. I'm trying my best to do...]] Mr. Senator Borowski, I didn't give you the floor. [[Oh, I'm sorry. I'm so emotionally...]] You can ask a question about that. Senator Grodzki. There you go. [[Those were wishes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! This is actually a strategic plan for Poland, especially for Szczecin, which I have the honour to represent alongside Polic. That's why I'm joining these thanks for your words. I believe this investment will be completed within the deadline. There's a lot of probability that this is going to happen unanimously today. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna: I count on it.]] Tell me, on the job, do you see any threat to the minister's performance? The Senate's legal side will secure you in this bill and probably in others, if necessary. And are there any real threats from engineering and technology, or do we not have to be afraid of that?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u93	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u94	Mr. Senator, everything is going according to plan at this point, but there could always be something unpredictable. It's hard to say everything's gonna go nicely. We do, but it's different. The company will win according to the procedure, start action, and at the end it may turn out to be... I was at the Infrastructure Committee in the Sejm for 11 years, and I know that there were big projects, companies were falling, there were delays. By 2012 certain road projects were to be carried out, and until today they are not, because there are delays. Our ministry is doing everything it can to finish this on time. Every dollar we get from the European Union is valuable to us because it has been fought in great difficulty. We just want to make it happen.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u95	Thank you very much, Minister. Now you're Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u96	Minister, following Senator Komarnicki, I wanted to commend you, but after listening to Marshal Borowski's warning, I will not do this by wishing you to remain in the government. I have a question that relates to your statement. You said that the reason for this investment using a specialty is because of the lack of spatial planning. I can understand that, but this special act simplifies, reduces the possibility of public consultation, there are provisions that limit public participation in public consultations. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna: No.]] Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna: I can answer no. It's just about...]] ...the chief legislator... [[Finish the senator, and then...]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna: Good.]] Then tell me if there are any restrictions in the specialty that allow an investor to implement this law without suggesting all the results of the consultation, treating them as merely an opinion. And then there's the second question. During the preparation of this law I asked you this question during the committee meeting, but you did not answer. Have environmentalists reported environmental problems related to this investment? Did environmentalists pay attention to such problems?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u97	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u98	Thank you for asking. I repeat once again: this special act concerns only the omission by the municipality of the plan when it comes to spatial planning, only and exclusively. I mean, if it's like... Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I know they made a deal. Of course, there's still a matter of compensation, but there's a second instance, which is the voivode. If the maritime office doesn't get along with the landlords, then you can reach the other tool, go to the voivodeship. The point is that this investment process should not be postponed. As I say, we want to end this on time. That's the goal. As far as environmentalists are concerned, they have always protested and protested. It's a deepening... Hamburg has up to 14 meters, Rostock or other... We only do to a depth of 12.5 m. This is meant to serve us, the development of Szczecin. Also, those countries that are not from Szczecin seem to want the whole country to develop evenly. Ecologists have always protested and protested. But the question is, is that right? Okay, I'll leave you to it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u99	Thank you, Minister. Senator Czerwinski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u100	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, in special laws, for example, about the construction of highways or flood protection devices, there is a special short path, I would call it expropriation. Is it necessary in this bill, or is it not necessary? Because she's not here, as far as I know. That's the first question. [[There's no...]] And the second question is, why are these 12.5 meters? The port in Gdansk has a maximum immersion of 15 m. These 12.5 m... The port in Szczecin should compete with German ports, so we reason. This is particularly important with regard to the removal of the Oder. What are the maximum possibilities for German ports located on the Baltic Sea? And where did you get those 1 2 feet? Does it correlate somehow... Shouldn't that possibly be more? And the last question is, what ships, what kind of submersion, can affect the Baltics at all?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u101	Thank you. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna: Thank you.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u102	Mr. Senator, when it comes to 12.5 m, it was a project... As I say, we continue with the project of the predecessors. If we're talking about deeper, about another... Well, there'd be powerful means that would require even more interference. Because every 1 m deeper means the need to expand. And these are powerful, gigantic costs. The predecessors started the third stage, to 12.5 m, so we respect... There is no time to debate whether 14 m... Of course, Hamburg has a depth of up to 14 m, Rostock similarly, I don't know if it's up to 16 m even. Our project assumes a depth of up to 12.5 m. Like I said, 40 grand... they'll be able to ship up to 220 meters... when it comes to the number of containers, it'll be doubled. As far as the number of passengers carried is concerned, it can be tripled. So that's what we're doing today. There's no longer any possibility of enlargement. You'd like to, I'd like it to be, for example. 16 meters, but reality is what it is. After all, if we were talking about 16 meters, we'd still have to watch... We've got a famous cable in front of Piglet. Nord Stream, which is located at a depth of 14 m. So it would be unreasonable to make a watercourse today at a depth of 16 m when it is only up to 13 m in Świnoujście. That's all I can say. [[Minister, there was another question...]] [[It's about expropriation.]] [[...what ships can enter the Baltic Sea, that is, how deep the straits are.]] When it comes to expropriation, I told you there was a procedure. I know the shipping agency made a deal about the yard. In the process, they're... There's an agreement. And now the question of compensation and quantity... Indeed, there is always someone who disagrees with the amount, who can appeal to the court, after all there is a procedure, there is a second instance, a voivode. So here... as I say, we want to speed up the deadline first, not waiting for the development plan. And other cases, when it comes to expropriation, are already settled. [[The question was, what ships, what dive, can enter the Baltic Sea, through the straits.]] [[Not the Baltic. To the harbor.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna: To the port?]] [[No, the senator's question was about going to the Baltic.]] [[It was a shortcut, of course. It was the German Baltic ports.]] Yeah, well, I told you Rostock's, like, 14 m to 16 m. I don't want to make a mistake here, but it's a row of greatness.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u103	Okay, thank you very much. Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, Minister, I will also ask you a question about this famous discussion about the project that has not yet been completed. I am thinking about the tunnel link left- and right-coastal part of Świnoujście. How is this investment going to fit into this tunnel? Well, because it's going to have to be deeper and so on, because it's going to be deepened by this episode of Pig, which is the branch of the Oder that flows through the Piglet. And now I have a question about whether there's any correlation between these projects and if there's anything more known about this tunnel. Because it's about years in which, as it was said, his design might eventually take on some real shape. I know that this project will not be directly subject to your resort, but, I think, to the infrastructure department, but I think the Minister necessarily has some knowledge about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u105	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u106	Thank you for asking. When it comes to Świnoujście, of course it's signed... I don't remember the end of... EUR 430 or EUR 450 million, and of course this project will be implemented. But surely it will not interfere with what we are going to do, i.e. with the reconstruction to 12.5 m deep. I'm sure it won't be... Because we all know that the funds for Świnoujście for the construction of this tunnel have been granted literally recently. And he will be realized.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u107	Thank you. Senator Komarnicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u108	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, this is really the last time I'm taking the floor. Would it be a problem if I asked for this schedule in writing? Because a lot of people ask that, Minister. And you know that Lubuska is very closely connected to this region.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u109	Thank you for asking. I'm sure we'll send this schedule, all of it... No problem, it's public.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u110	Thank you very much. Senator Napieralski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'll ask for this schedule, too, if I may join you. I would like to return to the question, in my opinion, of the very important question that you asked Senator Grodzki. Well, it has already happened that during the dredging, probably near Świnoujście, they found unexploded, unexploded or... I don't know what it's called, forgive me. Hence the question: are such procedures provided for in the Ministry or whether this law or regulation will give such possibilities that... there is an investor, a company from Szczecin, Warsaw or Wrocław, who works, deepens, and suddenly happens something that causes a very large delay of work, because all these security regulations are involved, then this schedule changes very much. And here's the question: are there any regulations so that you can change this schedule right away, help this company? Because it's not really her fault that he suddenly found himself around. Szczecin, the port of Szczecin, a massive misfire or a misfire that must be safely pulled out, transported, and this is a huge... Are there any such procedures that would ensure that the investor would not have any problems and that everything could go smoothly?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u112	Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u113	Thank you for asking. Of course, anything can happen, but surely the investor who is going to make the investment must first check the entire area and must be aware that they may be unexploded there. And, of course, it may sort of hold off on things, but it's rather foreseen in every construction schedule, and I don't see the possibility of some unpredictable delays in that regard, because it's foreseen. And every dredging needs to be checked, and whether it's related to rivers or not, there's a procedure to check whether it's safe or not. [[May I ask, Mr. Marshal Man, Minister?]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u114	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u115	I'm sorry to be a little out of line, but... I know, Minister... Because this situation has already taken place in our region and there have been very big disputes between the maritime office and the company that did the work, because it did not meet the deadlines. The point is, even if we check and think that, for example. There are no misfires or that she's so... This problem could just get bigger. And my point is that these regulations should be prepared enough to help in this regard. Well, that's where there was a huge war effort in World War II, and I'm afraid we might encounter a problem like this on the way, and then it'll be a problem again on the investor's side. The point is that the resort... or that additional regulations or regulations should be prepared for such situations.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u116	Thank you, Senator. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u117	Thank you for asking. I will try to answer the senator exactly in writing, so that this is explained professionally in terms of substance, I declare it. And I hope that's enough.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u118	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Senator Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u119	Minister, the Eastern Europeans are coming. It's being discussed in the European Parliament. For the design of the port for Berlin. Is this episode part of this program, and do you know anything about the planned seaport for Berlin?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u120	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u121	Thank you for asking. I'll do my best to answer in writing. I don't know anything, but I'll try to answer in writing to the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u122	Senator Grodzki, please. [[I already asked...]] Oh, that was a question, wasn't it? This is Senator Slugocki. Senator Slugocki, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Despite the interesting observation by Marshal Borowski, I would like to say that this is clearly a qualitative change. And congratulations, and thank you, Minister; what you said is very important. But I'm gonna bring up a few more important threads. I am referring to your statement not only in the context of the continuation, but it was extremely important, valuable and sincere of you. I am also very pleased with the responsibility that emanated from your speech. Here I am thinking about the context of Brexit. We need to be aware that 85% the funds transferred to this investment come from the Operational Programme.Infrastructure and the environment. We also need to know that the Community budget will be reconstructed, that there will be deficits due to Britain's exit from the Union. We don't know exactly how this process is going to evolve, so it's also a sign of responsibility that it emanates from you... Thank you for that, of course. One comment, Minister; I am very sorry that I will do so in the Senate. The n+3 principle in this perspective, n+2 in 2004 and 2006, in 2007 and 2013... until 2011 total n+2, from 2012 to the end of the perspective n+3 in this perspective also n+3. This annual buffer is very valuable and it is good that you are determined to make investments by the end of 2012, possibly keeping this year on those issues that many of my colleagues have pointed out here. I also have one question, and I think it's not unreasonable at all. Minister, aren't you afraid... I know that in the fourth quarter of this year you want to carry out the tender procedure. Aren't you afraid, Minister, of this situation? In view of the fact that it is a very complex investment and in an engineering sense, and in a financial sense, requiring the involvement of technology That there will be no entity who can accomplish this? In my view, this is, unfortunately, a very real threat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u124	Thank you very much. Please...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u125	That's a good point. Well, there's got to be a bid, we'll see the result, and we'll be able to react. Therefore, if possible, this invitation to tender must be made faster. When it comes to n+2 or n+3, I don't hide here either, that when I ask some people, I hear that it's n+2 and others say... For example, in the case of my investment in Oder it is said to end in 2023. Let's agree: it is better to do it in accordance with n+2 than n+3, it is better to finish faster and make sure... So there are discrepancies here, too. I know that the latest information from the Minister of Development, Mr. Prime Minister, shows that n+3 is in force. And when I was talking in my department of inland waterway transport, I heard about n+3, and when I was talking to the maritime department, it was n+2. But, like I said, it's better to do it faster than slower.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u126	Thank you. Senator Slugocki again.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u127	I accept this and I absolutely agree with you, Minister, that the sooner the better, the better, but the period of eligibility is governed by the general regulation on the spending of the European Regional Development Fund, the Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund. And in this perspective, which started in the programming sense on 1 January 2014 and will end in the programming sense on the last day of December 2020, the n+3 rule is in force, so to speak, the last day of signing the agreement for any task ends at the end of December 2020, while we have to complete the tasks in substance and financially by the end of December 2023. The regulation also, of course, sanctiones how payments will be made for these investments. They will de facto end with the last total payments, the closure of projects In 2017, the United States of America Thank you very much... Excuse me, 2024. I said about 2017, because I'm used to it when I'm talking about the 20072013 perspective. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u128	Okay...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u129	Thank you, Senator, Minister. I know you have a lot of knowledge about this, because you were Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development, and you have that knowledge. Thank you. The important thing is to do it, and it's best to do it sooner.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u130	Senator Jackowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u131	Thank you very much. Minister, I would still ask you to enter Świnoujście. This is Marshal Borowski... I'm sorry, Borusewicz asked, partly Senator Czerwiński... I mean... If the Minister does not answer me now, I would ask for a detailed written reply. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna: Okay.]] What exactly is the depth over Nord Stream I? Because there's a lot of information about this in public space. What it really looks like, in other words, how much Nord Stream I limits us the possibility, I don't know, to adapt the port in Świnoujście so that they can enter there, for example. Sixty-mile submersion units? I'm not saying... Because there's a team of ports of Świnoujście Szczecin, I'm not saying that to... For example, when it comes to gas, we're going to get raw materials for gas. I would ask for such detailed information, including how Nord Stream I, at what depth actually, and to what extent, runs the shipping route to ports in Szczecin and Świnoujście. This makes it difficult for the Polish side to create a free maritime economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u132	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u133	I'm sure we don't have... We all know that recently there was a large transport of oil to Gdansk and had to be unloaded before the canal, so that it could continue to sail to the Baltic. As far as I can tell from the unofficial sources, that cable that's... that pipe that was originally at 13.5 m, dropped. Today it is at a depth of more than 14 m, about 15 m. There's a process where she sort of settled in the sand and it's deeper... But, as I say, these are cases unrelated to this bill. Of course, we will provide detailed information in writing on this subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u134	Thank you. Senator Grodzki, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u135	I was just commenting on... Gas carriers are already entering the gasport. When we had a visit to Qatar, we talked to the Deputy Minister for Energy and we know that this big Al-Nuaman, who most often visits the gasport, does not require a detachment before entering the Baltic Sea. It is simply loaded so that the immersion approx. 13.5 m allows it to enter the port calmly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u136	Yeah, yeah, that's for sure, I confirm, I was the only one talking about the shipment... [[Oil.]] ...drops to Gdansk, where there were probably 2 million barrels... Well, I know there was a problem and the transport must have been partially unloaded earlier, before these critical...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u137	Good. Minister, I have a question. I'll ask by the way, but it's a different bill. If you want to answer that question, go ahead. Dig through the Vistula Mill. Don't you think that... because there's amber in there, there's a lot of amber in the Vistula mine, and it's specific money, and it's also an opportunity for our craftsmen to work. The amber is being downloaded mainly from Kaliningrad at the moment. Don't you think we'd have to examine and extract this amber first? Just divide it in time and give the concession to the extraction, divide it into plots, etc. Don't you think this kind of action should be ahead of construction? 'Cause if he digs up, he throws it out, and, as I understand it, he's gonna sink in the sea in part, this amber is gonna be lost forever. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna: Mr. Marshal, but...]] Have you thought about it?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u138	Mr. Marshal, when it comes to digging the gauges, the one in the specialty, she was just here in the Senate. As far as I know, she's been through it, Mr. President signed it, and it's going to happen. It's important for our safety. Let me put it this way: as far as the S70 road is concerned, we are talking about inland navigation, this is an opportunity to deliver from Tczew through this excavation... [[I get it. So I understand that the bill didn't include it, doesn't include...]] That's all I can say about it. We'll see how we're going to carry out... I have doubts that there will be this famous amber. As I say, this bill was here and the senators have certainly debated this issue. [[Because I didn't want to just mess with the channel...]] That's not my department, to be honest, 'cause I do inland navigation... [[Good.]] ...and that's what I want to do. It came to me today as a replacement for Minister G grubarczyk, who is in Brussels today, talking about the water track, about deepening...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u139	Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna: Here you go.]] I see. Well, this resort isn't from mining, so it doesn't think about it. Poland is a resort. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna: Please.]] There are no more questions. Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna: Thank you.]] I inform you that a government representative has committed himself to answering in writing the questions asked by Senators Komarnicki, Napieralski and Jackowski... and Pekkis? [[And the Puffs.]] Senator Pekkis, too? I haven't heard Senator Pekkis ask for written information. [[Senator Pekkis asked...]] All right. There you go. There's no Senator Pakkis, but I'm putting him on the list just in case. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am very pleased that this bill is being processed in the Senate today. It is a law that is needed, a law that does not cause controversy, and as for its purposes it is obvious. Very good it happened that the current government and here I would like to commend the government It is carrying out activities in areas that, what is much to say here, for the past 28 years have had different... I am talking about the development of the maritime economy. I don't want to enter into historical discussions, but there was a moment when it was said that circular transport would solve the whole problem and there was no point in investing in water transport. It's changing right now. And glory to God, because these traditional forms of transport that were and are I hope they'll be here. They're doing a great job. I would like to say that this particular law should see an element of the whole course of a new economic or maritime policy of the Polish state. We know there's a very intense program. That's what Minister Materna is doing. takes the modernisation of inland waterways. I'm thinking, above all, about the Oder program, the Warta program. On the coordination of these waterways with European inland waterways. This is vital for the economic development of our country and is part of the exploitation of what, for political reasons in our history, was a burden, at least at some moments in our history. I'm thinking of a geopolitical position here. In this case, if there is a peaceful coexistence, our location at the intersection of the northern routes The south and east west offer great opportunities for the economic and social development of our country. From this point of view too, we should look at these major infrastructure projects. I am also pleased that we had the opportunity to proceed in this House a few weeks ago on the Channel Act in Vistula, which sometimes raises some doubts, especially in environmental circles, but from a socio-economic point of view, especially the economic point of view of our country's development, is very important. And I'm glad that this Świnoujście water trail Szczecin, who as a sailor I have repeatedly come to defeat the floating unit, it will simply be modernised, dredged up to 12.5 m, because the Szczecin and Świnoujście port team at one time had such a concept of "" was once the largest transhipment port in the Baltic Sea basin." Well, there were years when the maritime economy was just a showcase of the Polish economy. This is particularly important in the context of our geographical location. I am thinking, above all, of interest in these ports, for example, from the Czech Republic and other Central European countries, which do not have direct access to the sea. Thanks to the modernization of the water routes in Oder and the modernization of road infrastructure it is a transit link, this transport in the north section South, it can thrive. I am also pleased that there will be a modernisation of the entire navigational marking of this route. It is very important that those standards that are currently in force are respected in this respect and that all of this is fully modernised. What seems important to me is also the reconstruction of the shore and hydrotechnical structures along with the adjacent infrastructure. This is also an area that I strongly stress: to a large extent It has not been modernised since Szczecin was not yet part of the territory of the Republic of Poland. This is necessary, because the years pass, and this whole coastal infrastructure on the route of this watercourse, which stretches, as the Minister emphasized, 67 km, simply has a key thing, also for the inhabitants of this region, and especially for those inhabitants who live in the immediate vicinity of Odra, the Szczecin flood or Świny. Minister, keep up the good work. I think the Senate will adopt this law unanimously or almost unanimously. It is important to wish the government that its implementation goes smoothly so that we can say in time that we have done a good job together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u141	Thank you, Senator. And I will ask you to take the floor of Senator George Wcisla. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! Because this conversation with the Minister ended with the question of the channel in Vistula Mieria, I will allow myself to make that point. Because, as I recall, there's a record in the channel-on-trace specialization that says that this special act shuts down the fossils bill. And this is related to the possible extraction of amber, which is located on the channel route, wherever it is built. So I have to commend the legislator for thinking that the amber that's missing wouldn't be wasted. In my opinion, however, I measure the entire amount, as your marshal suggested, should be divided into hundreds of parcels. We should extract this amber in a regulated way and I measure the whole recultivation after this extraction. We would avoid destroying the measurements by night diggers. Back to the law and the construction of the Świnoujście watercourse, Szczecin, I would like to say that this law does not seem to cause any controversy. She's needed, our ports need access routes from the sea. Świnoujście Szczecin, next to Gdansk and Gdynia, is the most important transport route, so this watercourse must be provided there. Of course, it could be 16 m, but 12.5 m... It can be compared not to the highway, but to the expressway. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a myth in Poland that says that waterways cost a lot more than roads for circular transport. Here is a 68 km waterway that provides good transport to the port. We can compare that, for example. up to 70 km of the road, which is currently being modernised, the road between Gdansk and Elbląg. That's the road. Not in the mountains, not in some terribly difficult environment, although they are Żuławy, areas difficult to invest It costs about PLN 3 billion, which is twice as much as this water road. My anxiety, however, arouses a certain ♪ As it seems ♪ Already adopted by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, at least in the case of these 2 flagship investments. This applies both to the construction of the canal by measuring as well as to this investment, the construction of the Świnoujście watercourse Szczecin. Well, both of these investments are made by means of specializations, i.e. de facto excluding certain legal solutions that we consider necessary, normal and legitimate. After looking at the problems that the Special Law will allow us to avoid, I find no justification for this speciality. There aren't many proprietary problems. There are problems with the lack of spatial planning, but, for God's sake, there are problems with every investment. We can't avoid the law because we're in some kind of trouble. The Minister also swears that there are no environmental problems, and this special act does not serve as a means not to deal properly with environmental issues. Well, that doesn't agree with the facts. 'Cause it's art. 5 of the proposed law clearly states that the articles of the Environmental Information and Protection Act, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments are not applicable to investment. This law, however, limits the possibility for environmental groups to participate in the opinion of the Act and to comment on it. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been engaged in water investments and waterways for several years now. And I know how hard it is to talk to environmentals. But that doesn't change the fact that you have to talk to them. You have to cut the doctrinal, but you have to listen to them, because sometimes they talk about important things. If we do not listen to these environments, we will not be willing to answer them, we can make a mistake that will cost us dearly. When I read in the explanatory memorandum that using a specialty will save us six months in the entire investment process, I also find no justification for accepting a specialty. As far as I remember, the first special act concerning these 2 investments was planned as a total act concerning both investments, and it was already mentioned, and in a similar outline it was already prepared at the end of last year. So it took almost six months just to process this bill in the ministry, which is supposed to be the six months we're supposed to miss. It is also about thinking about lawmaking. Well, if we start to think that we need to get past some legal solutions, because we don't have time to apply certain procedures, we should best eliminate democracy, because democracy extends the process of law-making. In this Parliament it is used. In many areas of our lives, democratic procedures are avoided. I hope that the Ministry of Maritime Affairs does not have such ideas as to do something that will avoid democratic procedures. Because if we were already following the path of thinking like that, it would be best to replace democracy with technocracy, i.e. to say that professionals have a patent for good solutions and we do not need those solutions taken with the participation of society, whether they are a society represented by elected Members and Senators, or a society in the form of environmental organisations and any other social organisations that have the right to comment on various kinds of projects. In conclusion, Minister, I would like to say that I believe that the implementation of transport investments in Poland by means of a specialty is a bad practice, especially in the aquatic environment, in water transport, which in Europe is regarded as environmentally friendly, environmentally friendly and cheaper in economic terms. And I also think... This is such a request at the main address of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping. In Europe, many topics, many threads in the case of water investments and, above all, inland investments are not being undertaken, because there is a deep conviction precisely what I said, that if we calculate the costs of road transport well and Europe is today dominated by this form of transport, and water transport, including external costs, with accident costs More than 4,000 people die, resulting in various types of costs Congestion, destruction of the environment, because you have to cut down forests, roads go through different environments, with air pollution... If all these costs are added, it will turn out that road transport is much more expensive than water transport. In Poland, a document is needed to say that there are studies carried out, that we know that road transport is a transport that needs to be limited, introduced into its place water transport and rail transport, because they are greener and more economical. And with that accent, I'd like to end with that suggestion. Of course, I and, I believe, the Senators of the Civic Platform will support this project, but I suggest that we think about finding a comprehensive solution for the development of transport in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u143	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Thomas Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u144	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I will not use my 10 minutes, but I could not fail to speak as a senator representing Szczecin, a city of freedom in which many important events took place both in the latest history of Poland and in the older history of the Western Pomerania, the Duchy of Pomerania. The history of this city is extremely interesting and extremely complicated. I can talk about this for a long time, but I encourage you just to visit our castle. For Szczecin the port was always important, even though the city lies 65 km from the coastline. At the moment when Copenhagen moved from coal to other energy sources and the Szczecin coal bridge fell, where courses were held regularly, when the watercourse began to sink, the port rank began to fall, not only because of the depth, but also because of the negligence in the container terminal, etc. Therefore, it is extremely important, extremely important that for the northwest borders of Poland, which are just as important as any other boundary of the Republic of Poland, another green light will light up. Because the watercourse is important for the strategic interest of the Republic of Poland, but even more important for the strategic interest of Szczecin, because the possibility of larger ships coming in is greater transhipments in the port, the possibility of larger passenger ships coming in is a bigger tourist traffic in the city, it is a bigger port, it is a bigger employment, which is especially important to the problems that affected the second largest plant of our city, the shipbuilding plant. Therefore, on behalf of the people of Szczecin and Polic, whom I have the honour to represent, I would like to thank the Ministry for continuing the good work that had been started earlier, and I would like to ask the senators to support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u145	Thank you. Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We'll proceed with the review of the point... [[Talking in the O.R.]] We proceed with the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Working Time Act on IWT vessels. The text of the Act is contained in print No 478 and the report of the Commission In print No 478 A. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u146	Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, taking this honorable duty for the first time, I'd like to ask your permission to introduce a small gadget to alleviate customs when the speaker would like to ask for silence... [[Sound of the bell]] That bell... [[applause]] It is an unusual gadget, because it is a miniature bell cast on the 1050th anniversary of the baptism of Poland, called "Mieszko and Dąbrówka." Maybe if you approve, the other marshals will get used to it. We now proceed to the next point. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Jan Hamerski, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present to the High House a draft law on working time on inland waterway vessels. This law aims to implement the provisions of the EU Directive of December 2014 into the Polish legal order. The Act complements provisions that take into account the specificities of the shipping industry. The Sejm passed a law at its thirty-nineth meeting in April this year. She was transferred to the Senate and the Marshal addressed her to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. On 19 April, a joint committee meeting was held which asks the High House to adopt a law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u148	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one volunteered. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on this matter? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna: Yes.]] If so, please come to the bleacher.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u149	Mr. Marshal, I'm lucky for the first time to speak to your marshal. And High Izbo! The IWT Working Time Act aims to implement Council Directive 2014/112/EU implementing the European Agreement on certain aspects of the organisation of working time in inland waterway transport, concluded by the European Inland Navigation Association, the European Organisation of Captains and the European Transport Workers' Federation. This is, you can say, a very important directive, which came out of the bottom and only then became a Council directive. The main objective of this Directive is to ensure a high level of protection for inland waterway workers. She was widely consulted in public. The most important regulations introduced by the draft law include: the inclusion of readiness to work as part of working time; the introduction of a 12-month accounting period for employers; the introduction of working time limits for workers working on inland waterway vessels; the provision of adequate rest days for workers working on inland waterway vessels; the introduction of an obligation for the employer to keep records of working time on inland waterway vessels. In conclusion, it should be noted that the bill implements a directive resulting from a social agreement between European employers' and workers' unions, which is a member of the Polish Inland Shipowners' Union. Therefore, in accordance with the requirements of the Directive, the regulations of the draft law correspond to the practice of working in the water transport sector and should therefore not raise any question of interpretation. I ask the High House to accept this very important for workers, for the shipowners of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u150	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? Mr. Senator Klein. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u151	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask if the adoption of this law will significantly change the workers' rights of our Polish employees working under our flag, but also under other flags. Because today Poles work under many other flags. Whether in general these regulations, because this is the implementation of European regulations, also apply to flags other than Polish, the so-called ones. Cheap flags? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u152	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u153	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Of course, this law... The adoption of this directive means that it applies throughout the Union and, of course, offers more opportunities to ensure, you can say, the safety of workers who do this work, the honoring of all their rights. Because let's be honest, in many cases on passenger ships, many things are done not during a cruise, but during... For example, there is the purchase of tickets whether there are repairs or other activities related to it and it could often have been so that it did not count for working time. Thanks to this law, we avoid this directive and, above all, provide workers with stronger rights. This is because it was agreed first by the workers and employers to be followed by a Council Directive within the European Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u154	The senator would like to ask. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u155	I'd like to ask you one more question. I'm sorry I'm making this question so much worse. Does this directive, and therefore our law, apply only to those seafarers who work on ships who work under the flag of the European Union or other workers? For example, if a ship flying a different flag, which is not a Union flag, enters a port of the European Union, do these provisions apply? And on this ship there are workers from European Union countries, so often... Can they also think that these provisions apply to them?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u156	First of all, Senator, I was talking about inland navigation... [[Oh, inland.]] ...inland, not sea. Midland. In general today there are 600 such employees, it is not a large group. I hope that thanks to what we want to do in the future And we're talking about a 15-year perspective, and there's gonna be more. We also focus on education, there is a department of science in our department, we take over schools, technology, and we want more and more employees in these professions. Generally speaking, this directive, this law, will allow these rights to be more respected, of course, throughout the European Union. We're talking about our shipping, our inland roads... It's a law on inland sailors, not sea sailors.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u157	Thank you. Now you're asking Senator Grabowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u158	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have three questions. Depending on the answer, maybe I'll have some other questions. The first question concerns the date of entry into force of the Act. The deadline for 31 December 2016 was not respected. Could you say a few words about whether there were so many problems with the construction of this piece of legislation? What is the reason for this delay that it is not until the end of April this year that we are proceeding this bill? The second question is quite broad. During committee meetings, perhaps, but also earlier, the Ministry knew the content of the Senate Legislative Office's opinion. The Senate's Legislative Office raises some quite important doubts about the overlap between the provisions introduced by the Labour Code Act. Here is the issue of a 12-month settlement period, which in the assessment of the Legislative Office can be... It is, so to speak, rigidly adopted in this law, while according to the Labour Code it is a 4-month settlement period, which can still be shortened. There are also a number of doubts about the Legislative Office's accounting for working time. Can you tell me a few words about this? Don't you think that's the point of the Legal Office? I hope it's not accurate. The fact that the introduction, implementation of these provisions in connection with the provisions of the Labour Code may complicate relations between employees and employers, and that certain provisions are vague... I'd like you to take that into account, too. And the third point I'd like to raise, as a matter of fact... The Minister rightly stated here that this is about ensuring the protection of workers and employers, that is the intention of this law. As far as I'm concerned, the bill applies to 600 people. My question is this: whether the introduction of the provisions of this law, which regulates in a more precise way in some places, in some places In the assessment of the Legislative Office The less precise and even blurring nature of the matter, the introduction of restrictions on working time, holidays, will not result in an increase in employment on inland waterway vessels? Wouldn't that have an effect? Because if we're introducing some kind of tightening on working time, so to speak, it might be a factor in the need to hire more workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u159	Mr. Senator, as far as delays are concerned, we've explained this in both the Sejm, the committees, and here... This is the issue of agreeing, consulting, among others. with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy... During the work, there were also suggestions to include posted workers. We finally agreed that it would take a long time, so it was turned off. Of course, we're gonna keep trying to settle this, but to keep the deadline... We are still in contact with the Council of Europe, of course all explanations will be such that there is a delay, you can say, 4 months, but this is what these consultations required. It went through the RCL because there were a lot of different questions. We are therefore a little behind schedule, but we are informing the Commission about this and we agree on all of this. As far as the Senate is concerned, the Senate's opinion was very controversial, but in general it ended with the conclusion that this is acceptable. In fact, it will only come out in practice whether this law is perfect or whether some amendments are needed. Generally speaking, we are talking about a 12-month settlement time and all this can be improved at that time. There is no so-called. overtime, so we set a longer period. As far as the settlement is concerned, that is the result of the article. Eighty-five laws, and it has to be honored. Each trader who carries out such activities must submit a payroll list by the 10th day of each month and settle this period. This record clearly states that this must be respected. Here is a record that by the 10th day of each month the employer must present a list whether it has 1 ship or 10 vessels. It's an obligation under the bill. That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u160	The Minister has exhausted the subject. Yes? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna: Yes.]] You're asking Senator Rybicki a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u161	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. With regard to the Minister's statement, I would like to point out that the other side is the employer, which is usually the ship owner. I would like to ask how many of these shipowners in Poland are and what the financial consequences of this law will be for those companies that are involved in... Well, they're usually ship-owners with one unit or two units. What will be the financial consequences for these entrepreneurs, often very small?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u162	Mr. Senator, as far as the financial implications for the budget are concerned, this bill has no effect. [[I asked about the financial consequences for the entrepreneur.]] As far as ship owners are concerned, as far as I know, there are 500 entrepreneurs who own ships. As I said, this law is a consensus developed by both shipowners and employees. She's just agreed. And let's respect that because this is a bottom-up initiative. Before we implemented the Council Directive, this was developed at a lower level, so let us honor what the workers have won. It is known to mean greater commitments for employers, but let us respect what has been developed. I know they tried it in the Seym, and here in the Senate... I can say that one of the captains in a way, you can say, lobbyistly tried to make amendments that were unfounded in view of the whole compromise worked out. We must not weaken workers. This law primarily extends and guarantees the rights of workers, and that is why these amendments which were tabled first in the Sejm, where they were withdrawn after a long discussion... I know that later this captain also tried to lobby in some way in the Senate, but I think this is really no place or time for this. Let us respect what has been developed in the form of consensus between shipowners and workers. [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u163	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u164	Of course, I respect this compromise, I respect this directive and I have no questions about the amendments. I have only a question about the financial consequences for companies, because as I look at these proportions of 600 employees, 500 employers, I think that these costs have been estimated and are probably known to the Minister and the Government. What will be the financial impact for businesses, for shipowners?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u165	As far as this question is concerned, I can answer in writing because I have no such knowledge. We'll describe it to the senator, give you the information in writing. [[I'm gonna ask for a written reply. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u166	You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u167	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This bill is kind of written from the point of view of the employee and the labour code. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna: Yes.]] The question is, are there any safety regulations here? There are provisions related to the length of work of the driver or driver, very closely observed. And the barge is also a sort of means of transport, and you can do damage when you're overtired. Are there any rules? If they are, in which law are they placed? And if not, I have a question: why? Are we giving it all away here? Can you sail the barge as long as the sun permits, if there is good visibility?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u168	Mr. Senator, when it comes to safety... When threats arise, then of course they do not work certain, you can say, agreed, worked out in this bill... It is known that when a threat comes, then the first thing you have to do is save workers and all your belongings. You can't talk about rules here.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u169	I don't think we understand each other, Minister. I'm asking you to limit the working time of the man running the barge. I don't know his name. Hey, hey, hey, - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna: Yes.]] I'm asking for a job as a skipper on a barge and safety concerns. I'm sure he can't run the barracks all the time for 12 hours, 'cause it wouldn't be safe. Are there any provisions in the Polish legislation in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u170	I was talking about it because of the bill. Certain conditions are in place for the 12-month settlement. The working time is 11 hours on one day and the settlement is done within a certain period. So there's no danger here or... As for what the senator said, it's in the Inland Navigation Act. So everything about security... I'm sorry, these are some details that I'm afraid... We have specialists to tell us about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u171	Now you're asking Senator Grabowski a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u172	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I will repeat the question, because it is a question which sort of fits into the question asked by Senator Rybicki. Senator Rybicki asked about financial matters. I guess my question about the number of employees... Currently, 600 employees are working, but the introduction of working time limitation rules will, I understand, make it necessary to employ additional workers on 500 entities, 500 companies. Does the Ministry have such information, estimates? How many people is that gonna be? Since there are 500 entities and 600 employees I understand these shoulders are swimming. It is known that on average one with a fraction of an employee per barge comes out. Yes? And now the question is: how long will it be necessary to increase employment for these actors after the provisions in question have been introduced? One more question, Minister. I'd ask you to answer me. I understand that when it comes to workers in inland waterway transport, they are currently working under the Labour Code. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna: Yes.]] So the Labour Code also regulates things here. The conclusions of the Legislative Bureau were that some of the provisions of the Act are, as it were, repeated from the Labour Code. This is a matter of legislative technique. It shouldn't be like this. The law refers in cases that are not regulated to the Labour Code, but there are also some repetitions here. I repeat the question. I'm asking for an answer, if not from the speaker, in writing. How does the Ministry estimate: will it be necessary to increase the number of employees after the entry into force of these rules? Thank you. Unless you can answer now.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u173	As far as I know, it is not expected that there will be more employment, because, as I say, this law regulates it so that it can be shaped in a 12-month period or in another period so as to... Because it is known that shipping today is so limited that we hardly see barges on inland roads, and when it comes to passenger transport, it also takes place in a specific cycle, which is, say, spring to autumn. All this can be regulated during this extended period. And I really don't think there's a problem here that you need more workers. First of all, most of these owners carry out their own activities and do not employ employees. As I say, for now the scale of this is very small, but of course it will all be developing and if there are any problems, we will react. First of all, we want to introduce this and, of course, we will monitor it, and if there is a threat, there is a chance to go back to that and improve the solution. But let's give these rights that have been won, and it's mostly the workers who have won them. Let us enjoy all of this and respect what the workers have won and what the shipowners have agreed to.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u174	Is the senator satisfied with the answer, or is he waiting to be completed in writing? [[That's enough. Thank you.]] That's enough. You're asking Senator Klein a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u175	Minister, I would like to ask you about this number of shipowners. Because you said there were 600 employees and about 500 ship owners, which means in practice, that most of these ships only have owners... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna: Yes.]] ...and therefore these provisions do not apply to them. That's the way it's gonna work. It's true, isn't it? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna: Yes, the regulations do not apply to...]] So this line... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna:...own activity.]] Well, that's it. So this de facto applies to some absolutely small number of shipowners. By the way, it's a sad thing that the owner of the company doesn't apply to any labour law, he works 24 hours a day, he just doesn't have time for anything, and we're so light on the agenda. Right? And we often treat these private entrepreneurs as those who live at the expense of others. You'd probably have to pay attention to that, too. But what is the number of entrepreneurs who employ at least 2 or more workers on vessels? And yet you say, "Let us appreciate what has been won..." It's like it's part of some kind of struggle... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna: No, no.]] Well, I don't think that's the point. It's true, isn't it? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna: I just used the wrong word.]] Rather than looking at our entrepreneurs, we see that these are small entrepreneurs who are in serious trouble, and we are adding more responsibilities here, more expenses, and that is definitely the case. However, I suspect that we are implementing the EU directive here, and these are, however, Is that so? The agreement is not at the Polish level. It may turn out that Polish entrepreneurs and thus the action of this entrepreneur at a committee meeting They did not participate in these arrangements at all. Did Polish entrepreneurs participate in the drafting of this directive?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u176	I confirm: the Polish association of shipowners participated in this whole undertaking and there is also a positive opinion on all the unions. The consultation lasted for a very long time, ex-union representatives at individual committee meetings. And it's really some kind of consensus. Of course, today, an employer who has a business of his own can work 24 hours a day. That's the situation. Well, I hope that first of all what we want to do as IWT Ministry in the future with rivers Because these major routes of international importance we want to bring to the 4th class of • will cause more demand for freight and that shipowners, when they see these large orders, first, will hire, second, order ships in shipyards and there will be a certain economic situation. Today's the way it is. Unfortunately, today we don't see ships sailing across the rivers. Well, there's a ship that, as part of EMMA, took off from Gdansk, a container ship that sails to Warsaw. Tomorrow we will participate in this research and promotional project. But in general today there are no ships on the Polish rivers, they appear ad hoc. Sometimes you do the same thing with one ship so that more water is flushed. It's all a little unprofessional tonight, but you have to start somewhere. We want to do this so that in the future it is at a higher level. A few thousand... After all, we are opening a technique, as I said earlier, there is a department of science, we are taking over many schools and we want to create a new competition. Therefore, in a few years' time, the situation will certainly be different. We want this to be important to our economy.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u177	You're asking Senator Rybicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u178	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. One more question, Minister, would seem to me that it might be trivial, because I will ask why such a short period is for the introduction of the law, for its implementation, 2 weeks of vacathio legis. From the legislator's point of view, this may be common practice, but from the entrepreneur's point of view it is a dramatic short time to prepare for new procedures. I think it's a slight sign of disrespect for entrepreneurs, not to say arrogance. What are the dramatic reasons behind this vacathio legis being so short that it's not extended?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u179	Mr. Senator, I'm responding. The consultation lasted over a year and started before the rule of law and justice began. They have been conducted for a very long time, comprehensively and the shipowners could really prepare for it, they knew what the situation was, about the EU directive we have developed, about how we are introducing it. The consultation took a really long time, even after the deadline, after these 3 months we tried to negotiate, talk, discuss and this is what caused this short period. We want to introduce this bill as soon as possible, because we're already out of time, you can say, we're four months late and we have to explain it already.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u180	Any of your senators want to ask you another question? If not, thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna: Thank you.]] Let me remind you that the Minister has committed himself to answering in writing Senator Rybicki's question. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna: Yes.]] Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. Then I will close the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Social Security Act and the Act amending the Labour Code and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 471, and the report of the Commission In print No 471 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Bogusława Orzechowska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u181	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At the meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, which took place in 3 stages, because the first part of the meeting took place on 19 April, the next part was yesterday, and today we finished work on this item, we discussed the law on amending the Social Insurance Act and the Law on amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws. There were government and parliamentary projects. In the Seym, a government bill was finally adopted. The purpose and subject of this law is to introduce individual premium accounts for contributors. There is supposed to be a single payment in respect of all debts to which the Social Security Office is obliged to collect. These rules aim to establish a uniform standard for the identification of the payer of social, health, labour fund and guaranteed occupational benefits, as well as the Post-Most Pension Fund. This number will be the new identifier of the payer's contributions. The Act will allow payers to reduce the number of payments and payments will be made by one transfer. During the meeting of the committee there were statements of various people, the senators spoke, and representatives of entrepreneurs injured in the so-called outsourcing affair. The senators have tabled some amendments to the bill. Amendments have been tabled which are actually related to the legislative amendments that have been supported by the Minister and the amendment by the minority senators. This is an amendment tabled by Senator Libicki. It was supposed to be a guarantee that there would be no doubt about point 211, which would allegedly allow the Social Security Office to collect benefits from employers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u182	Thank you, Senator. I now ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, to present the proposals of the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Allow me to present a minority motion with Senator Augustine. This minority request was not received The nature of the minority proposal indicates this. The majority of the committee's support. This is a proposal put forward during the work of our committee by the employers that I have taken over. It concerns the question of the desensitization of orders. We were dealing with a situation in which two contract-orders functioned, one was smaller and decomposed, and the other, the bigger one, did not involve social security contributions anymore. And very often there was a situation in which this smaller deleted agreement was In fact, it's a fictional agreement. As to the fact that such situations should be pursued, there is no doubt here. However, the idea was that the Social Insurance Institution should be able to decide what is really the situation and that this tool should actually be used in cases where there is a serious suspicion of such a situation. The point is that the Social Insurance Institution cannot use this tool freely in a situation where it is obvious and certain that this smaller contract, from which social security contributions were paid, actually took place and when what was the subject of this contract-ordering, was actually executed. As I said, I have taken over this amendment from the employers' representatives and, as a minority proposal, I present it to the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u184	Thank you, Senator. I'm gonna need you to stay on the stand for a while... [[Yeah, yeah.]] ...because now the senators will be able to submit questions to the senators of the rapporteurs. Are there any questions for the senator of the minority rapporteur? Mr. Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u185	Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you if you're familiar with the positions of employers. No matter what kind of relationship employers or corporations ..who would support the changes made as a result of the public and inter-ministerial consultations... Is this about a position that supports what you and Senator Augustine want to eliminate?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u186	I can say this: the position of employers, representatives of selected organisations who were present at the committee meeting was uniform. Such an amendment was proposed by employers, uniformly, without disagreement. And that's why we took it with Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u187	Are there other questions for the rapporteur? I see you've registered Senator Augustine. You have a question for Senator Libicki. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u188	Yes. I'm taking this opportunity to highlight the situation with a question. In the meeting, the issues that you spoke about were indeed raised. There were no differences between employers in this matter. However, another point was raised, namely the situation in which employers were addressed by temporary employment agencies. Today, these employers are charged unpaid contributions, although their fee to the temporary agency included a contribution to the Social Security Office. My question is a little bit about my motion at the committee meeting. This is a rhetorical question, because I expect the answer to be. The proposed amendment does not fully address this issue, Senator, does it?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u189	No. This amendment does not fully address this issue. If I say so, report on the committee meeting in this section that you are asking the senator about, then I can say that there was a belief among us that we should monitor the situation and examine how much we can help the employers who found themselves in it. The reports that were presented to us at the committee meeting were actually often very difficult for entrepreneurs, I would say dramatic. I'm sure this case needs monitoring.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u190	Next up is Senator Dobrzyński. Do you have a question for the senator of the minority rapporteur? [[Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u191	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, you're referring to employers. What was the number of people who presented such a position? Were they representatives, president of some organization, or were they individual entrepreneurs who attended a committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u192	At the stage where the amendment was tabled... She was proposed by the employers by Mr Warski, who is Vice-President of the Social Dialogue Council. Certainly at our meeting there were two such organizations represented, and perhaps even three. Honestly, I'm not quite sure if it was two or three. [[Mr. Marshal, just a second.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u193	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u194	I understand that, on the basis of the opinion of three people, the entrepreneurs who participated in the committee meeting, you have prepared such an amendment. That's how I figured it out. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u195	I can say this: I will repeat that there were representatives of 2 or 3 organisations at the committee meeting. Mr Warski, vice-president of the Social Dialogue Council and representative of the BCC, made such a proposal for an amendment and we took it over.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u196	You're asking Senator Szymanski a question. I understand that this is also a question for Senator Libicki. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u197	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, yes. This is a question related to the rapporteur's information that all employers' representatives were in favour of this amendment. In the meantime, I remember that this proposal was actually presented and justified by the guest, Mr Warski, but two representatives of the disadvantaged entrepreneurs, although they saw the problem, were not convinced that the amendment would solve the problem that they themselves presented. So that the match wasn't complete. That's all I wanted to say. Eventually, I'm asking the senator rapporteur to tell me if I'm right.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u198	I can say that yes, indeed, it was as the senator says. Except those representatives of entrepreneurs who thought that the amendment did not solve their problems were rather referring to what Senator Augustine was talking about in his question. According to them, the amendment does not solve the problem that they once paid the employment agency for the provision of workers, and now they have to bear the consequences of the fact that this work agency, the company they hired, turned out to be an unreliable company.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u199	Thank you. Are there any questions for Senator Orzechowska? Senator Duda, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u200	Thank you very much. Senator Rapporteur, if you would be kind enough to say in a few of these views what employers are really afraid of... In your opinion, does this discussion that has been taking place in our committee for two, so to speak, the views indicate what their main concern is? Do they not fear that the provisions introduced, I stress, after the agreements, at the last moment, will result in their companies being in danger and consequently result in redundancies?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u201	The employers in the information they gave us claimed that they could be harmed because they could actually be sued for payment, even though someone else It is precisely as in the case of the above-mentioned outsourcing case that the payment should be made. However, the Minister made it clear that there is no such threat that there should be no such situation. If the employer is honest and the outsourcing company is honest, then there should be no such situation. And the case of dishonest companies is already a prosecutor's case, a case of self-defense. [[Senator... excuse me, Mr. Marshal, may I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u202	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u203	Senator Dobrzyński tried to show that three employers were at the meeting and tabled an amendment, i.e. asked the senators to accept the amendment. Well, I'm gonna want to ask, because in my sense and understanding, And I've been dealing with this issue over the last few weeks... I did not find any association of employers in Poland that would accept these solutions. And I don't know if you've read it, probably not, but in Rzeczpospolita there was a very, I would say, emotional article by the head of employers of Poland, Mr Malinowski. He pointed out that the environment was, however, very concerned. And that's why I'd like to ask you if this amendment we've proposed Of course, it is not directly to you, in your opinion, that the rapporteur could calm this situation down and not arouse the emotions that will now, in my opinion, grow? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u204	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u205	It is difficult for me to say, because it will only be my opinion, not the opinion that was produced at the committee meeting. I don't think this amendment solves the problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u206	The question is Senator Augustine, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u207	Mrs Senator, it is astonishing that in the final phase of the work on this draft law in the Sejm, an additional provision has suddenly appeared, not previously consulted in the Council of Social Dialogue. I am a little short of a reference in your report to this issue that has been raised here and which, in my opinion, is a serious threat to this law, for example in the context of its regularity, constitutionality. ♪ 'Cause employers ♪ And they're not the only ones. They raised this issue in the discussion. I'd ask you to address it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u208	This matter was raised at the committee meeting, but no clear conclusions were drawn on this basis. As for the final votes of the committee, because I did not say this at first, all the members of the committee were in favour of the legislative amendments, so they were voted unanimously. Following the amendment tabled by the minority, there were 3 members against the 5 members.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u209	Senator Duda, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u210	Thank you very much. Mrs. Senator, yesterday, during our discussion that went on without the Minister And you were present during this discussion and I had the impression that the representatives of the Social Insurance Institution had, let's call it euphemistically, a desire to work on this amendment. Do you not think that the Social Insurance Institution could have explained the matter? Well, at least I had the impression, the feeling. Do you feel the same way? Would you mind telling us about it? Because maybe I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u211	If we're talking about our feelings, I didn't have that feeling. [[I see.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u212	Are there any further questions? There isn't. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was introduced by the government and Members. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to take the floor and present the position of the government? There you go, Minister Marcin Zielenecki, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Labour.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The primary objective of the Law adopted by the Sejm, the Law amending the Social Security System Act and the Act amending the Labour Code Act is to introduce a uniform standard of identification of the payer of social security contributions, health insurance, the Labour Fund, the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund and the Post-Most Pension Fund. The Act provides for the introduction of individual premium accounts for payers of contributions to which a single payment will be made for all the charges to which the Social Insurance Institution is obliged to collect. In short, in place of four separate transfers to date, the payer will be obliged to make only one transfer and the task of allocating the funds paid to the Social Insurance Institution will be taken over by the Social Insurance Institution, which, through the use of a special algorithm, will divide these funds into 4 or 5 separate funds: Social Insurance Fund, Pomeranian Pension Fund, Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund, Labour Fund and the National Health Fund. The second of the most important changes that are contained in the Act under discussion today is the introduction of a new way of identifying the payer of contributions. In the current legal state, the payer of the contributions was obliged to provide only one numerical identifier of his choice by payment of the Social Insurance Institution's contributions. This function was performed by NIP, REGON, PESEL or the identity card number. He was also obliged to indicate, by paying the contribution in the traditional way, the period for which the contribution is paid. The Act provides for the allocation of contributions to each payer of a single contribution account which will only be used for the record of contributions. It can be said that this will be the only way to identify the payer of the contributions. The Act also provides for amendments which I would define additional amendments that clarify certain provisions of the Act on the social security system. For this category of changes, I would include: firstly, supplementing the existing definition of the payer's contribution to the bodies paying the scholarship during the training, traineeship or professional training period; secondly, a change which was discussed, providing for the protection of the rights of insured persons in the event of their failure to transfer under Article. 231 of the Labour Code; thirdly, adjusting the rules on late payment of interest included in the tax administration to the specifics of social security; fourthly, regulating the limitation of obligations arising from a decision transferring tax liability to a third party. The next change is a change of assumption or a change of... Further changes include: the definition of the rules for the use of the Central RCI PESEL Database by the Social Security Office; a change in the scope of the probative capacity of the data provided by the undertaking; the application of the NBP reference rate as a base factor to determine the interest rate paid by the undertaking in the event that the contribution to the open pension fund is not transferred; the adoption of a uniform model of compensation for late transfer of contributions to the OFE in the form of interest borne by the undertaking, whether or not the Social Insurance Institution will be charged with the fault; the legal alignment of electronic printouts generated by the authorised person from the electronic platform of the Social Insurance Institution with certificates issued by the undertaking in paper form, e.g. where a certificate of lack of arrears in the payment of social security contributions is required in the public procurement procedure. The following options include: an indication of the time limit within which the bailiff should pay the fee and a definition of the rules for calculating interest as a consequence of failing to comply with the specified payment deadline; a change in the procedure for selecting an actuary which will issue an actuarial opinion to the multiannual forecast of the rolling income and expenditure of the pension fund; a codification of the rules for the conduct of the tax authorities and the establishment in the process of issuing individual interpretations. And the last change that finds its expression in the name of the bill, in its title... The latest solution includes changes to the maximum annual expenditure limits of the Social Insurance Fund for parental leave and the correction mechanism. Here it was necessary to amend the law amending the labour code. The bill, as far as the work is concerned, did not raise any special controversy in the Sejm. It can be said that all parliamentary clubs supported this law It was adopted almost unanimously, with 2 votes against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u214	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? Senator Szymanski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u215	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The topic we are discussing today was also the NIK report. What about the recommendation is included in this law? That's my first question. The second question relates to what Senator Duda was talking about, to an article that appeared in the Rzeczpospolita (Rzeczpospolita), which was written by the President of the Employers of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Malinowski. He is actually drawing attention to the five words that he considers to undermine this amendment. They are as follows: to the payment of the premiums fixed by the Company. Those are the words. In his opinion, this could finish off Polish entrepreneurship. This is a quote, "What does this passage really mean?" The fact that the Social Security Office will be able to appoint a company that he believes should pay contributions for the employee Even if the company of this employee never employed! I would ask you to comment on this, all the more so because we are probably also being listened to by employers and employees today, because this seems to be a sensitive issue which was discussed at committee meetings and which raised doubts about this broad amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u216	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u217	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! High Izbo! The context or origin of this change, which was the subject of such a lively discussion during the Senate Committee meeting, is the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, which was published in October 2016, concerning the correctness of the activities of the Social Insurance Institution and the tax authorities in relation to the collection and enforcement of social security contributions and tax charges resulting from the recruitment of employees under outsourcing agreements. You could say that one of the threads The document is quite extensive, so I think we don't have time to present it in more detail. Which appears among the recommendations made by the Supreme Audit Chamber... Allow me to quote this passage: 'As a result of the checks initiated by the Social Security Office and the tax offices of the companies, they were obliged to pay late contributions and advances on income tax, regardless of whether the companies with which they concluded contracts and agreements had paid premiums and advances or not. This can be conducted in the opinion of entrepreneurs, presented among others. at meetings of the Sejm committees, for the double collection of contributions to the Social Security Office and advances on income tax. And here's the root of the problem. It can be said that the proposal to introduce a new article. 38a to the Social Insurance Act is aimed primarily at preventing such situations, such cases of unfair use of the outsourcing formula and charging the costs of concluding the so-called. Outsourcing agreements are being made by companies that have decided to take advantage of the offer of such an unfair outsourcing company. That provision, which is included in the new Article. 38a of the Act, provides in paragraph 1. 4. that contributions unduly paid by the reporting agent to social security insured persons for the period specified in the decision of the ZUS pension authority shall be considered by the undertaking to be ex officio against claims on the contributions of the payer; the undertaking shall make the credit established for the payment of the amount of late or current contributions. One can say that the idea is that the effects of such apparent outsourcing agreements... Today, the situation is that contracts concluded in the past by entrepreneurs with dishonest companies offering services so-called. labour outsourcing, very often today, are regarded by the courts as apparent contracts. In short, in order for the Social Insurance Institution to determine the legal effects of such outsourcing agreement today, it must first apply to the court for recognition, to state that the so-called. the staff outsourcing agreement was an apparent agreement and consequently a non-valid agreement. These are long-term procedures, which after many years benefit those entrepreneurs who have been victims of unfair outsourcing. Such current consequences of such outsourcing agreements... The Social Insurance Institution does not have the power to determine the consequences of such an invalid outsourcing agreement before the court gives its ruling. That is the context of this provision. Recording of the article. Article 38a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) This article. Article 38a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) 4 allows the Social Insurance Institution to treat payments paid by an unfair outsourcing company... to book these payments against the contributions that lie with the outsourcing company in a situation where the outsourcing contract was Today, the Social Insurance Institution does not have such instruments. Consequently, it can be said that the judgment by the court declaring such an outsourcing agreement null and voids the effect of that judgment on the trader who was the victim of an unfair outsourcing company. Not only can the U.S. not book those contributions that were made by an unfair outsourcing, but I would say it should treat these payments as unduly paid contributions and return these funds... well, criminals. Right? That is the intention of this record. Art. Article 38a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) 1 assumes that, in the event of such doubts requiring an investigation, it is a question of who is the payer of the contributions: whether the entity that has decided to transfer the employees to an external company, or whether the entity that has accepted those employees ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Social Security could issue a decision determining who is the payer of the contributions without waiting for the court's ruling, which I said, often requires long-term proceedings. It was therefore necessary to introduce a new concept into the Social Insurance Act, namely: the reporting agent of insured persons for social security. The reporting entity in a situation in which we are dealing with an apparent and therefore void contract of outsourcing of workers is an entity which is not a payer because this agreement was void. Right? The current employer remained the wager. It is the Social Insurance Institution that provides the basis for making a decision. This competence shall be reflected in the article. 83 of the amended act on the social security system, which allows this article to issue a decision on the determination of the payer of the contributions, i.e., in short, who is the payer of the contributions. What I'm trying to say is this is not a new competence. The Social Insurance Institution may already issue decisions determining the payer of contributions today. Such decisions shall be taken in the context of proceedings to determine the social security obligation. Such decisions shall also be issued where the Social Insurance Institution decides on a premium obligation, an obligation to pay contributions. Those proceedings shall also include a decision on the entity which is either obliged to make a claim for insurance or is liable to pay the social security contribution due in a situation in which... In this context, we look at the content of the amended Article proposed here. 38a Act on the social security system. Well, these concerns that you are making here, with regard to a broader context of application or a wider scope of application of this provision, I find it unjustified. So much for the senator's first question. The other one was...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u218	Thank you so much for your answer. It concerned two issues, i.e. NIK and the consequences for this law, as well as a provision that was particularly discussed here. Thank you for your broad answer. I can only ask in this context... As I understand it, the number of entrepreneurs affected by this regulation In quotation marks The ZUS will not increase. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u219	Definitely so, because this is a recipe addressed to entrepreneurs injured by dishonest outsourcing companies. It's hard to talk about the Social Security Department here as the perpetrator of the damage.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u220	Thank you. You're asking Senator Duda a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Minister, I think we can agree on one thing: that this bill was needed. Besides, as you have said in your statement, the Lower House has passed almost unanimously. Yeah, but this is where the stairs start. Why did she go through unanimously? I would like to remind the ministers, including the senators, that when the matter was discussed, it took a few minutes, perhaps a few minutes. And according to the report, both the Sejm opposition and the employers' side probably fell asleep a little bit then. It was then that controversial, emotional art was introduced today. 38. My question is this. If there's no trouble 'Cause that's what the minister says. And there will be no history of bankruptcy of companies and dismissal of employees, so could you provide, today, with some such assurance to employers and many hundreds of thousands of employees, that this provision will not cause what employers and companies are afraid of, the application of the law backwards, which I will ask later, and that it will not cause a disruption in the employment market, but also simply bankruptcy or liquidation of Polish companies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u222	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u223	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, High Izbo, I would like to say that, first of all, this provision does not introduce any new legal instrument which, you might say, could raise concerns about whether it could be applied to entrepreneurs. As I said, in answer to Senator Szymański's question, the Social Insurance Institution already has the competence under the current rules to carry out checks in the area of social security obligations as well as in the way in which employers, contributors It is important to talk about this in a broader context. I would also like to say that this law does not in any way refer to the limitation period of obligations relating to premiums. This period is five years and he's not being changed in any way, so I can... [[Why the duty, Minister?]] ...to calm down the employers' environment here. I would like to say that in this respect this provision or this law does not provide for any changes. The question of where the concerns of entrepreneurs arise, frankly, I cannot answer, because listening to the justification of this amendment, which was tabled during the committee meeting... It can be said that this law does not regulate this issue at all, it is simply a different subject. That's the topic that's left, I'd like to say... This is a regulation that was adopted in the previous term of office... [[That was the beginning.]] ...in 2015 and which didn't seem to have aroused any major controversy at that time. [[Not then, and now I do.]] So nothing changes in this respect.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u224	The senator wanted to ask. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u225	Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, but I'm gonna have some more questions, so I don't know if... I would like to ask, because the Minister, on the one hand, calms down, and on the other hand we are dealing with such a situation that the employer's side relies on numerous principles of breaking social dialogue and conducting the process of law-making in their view. I would like to ask the Minister if it is true, among other things. that provision of Article. 38a was introduced into the project after the conclusion of the public consultation and whether it is now a natural issue. Because at least in most of this kind of situation, I think, if there isn't some extraordinary situation and necessity, then this consultation goes to the end. And here employers mainly say that this provision was introduced outside the consultation and that it was Sorry about the colloquialism. It's a kind of throwaway. Is that what happened?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u226	I'm gonna go with the facts. Several times, and in writing, I have informed both the Social Security Task Force of the Council of Social Dialogue, in particular President Jan Klimek, representing the notabene environment of employers in this team, and the presidents of all representative employers' organisations within the meaning of the Social Dialogue Council Act on the history of this provision, namely Art. 38a. The bill has been drafted addressed properly in parallel to representatives of representative trade union centres, representative employers' organisations, as well as to the Social Dialogue Council on 25 October 2016. As I mentioned at the outset today, in October, in fact in parallel, the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber was published, which included among the recommendations made by the Supreme Audit Chamber that the Social Insurance Institution did not have or did not have in the past, in previous years, legal instruments that would allow for a rapid response, to a signal of possible unfair outsourcing of workers. I would like to say that the response to this recommendation was made very quickly, because, to the extent possible without the need to amend the Social Security Act, we made a revision of the Regulation on the identification of the model social insurance and health insurance declarations, the monthly and registered monthly corrective reports, introducing in this implementing regulation a new insurance title code applicable to the removal of a worker in connection with the transition of a work establishment or part of it to another employer in accordance with Article. 231. This was intended to enable the Social Insurance Institution to monitor the movement of workers, to monitor current checks and to analyse the correctness of compliance with social security obligations. According to the recommendation of the Supreme Audit Chamber, the signal to the Social Insurance Institution about possible unfair outsourcing of workers only appeared when the obligations to pay social security contributions were not properly fulfilled. The so-called companies. Outsourcing very often in the initial period after the acquisition of employees under Article. 231, in order to hide their true intentions, they paid their contributions, then it happened that these contributions were paid in incomplete amounts, and only after a while did they stop paying their contributions. The Social Security Department reacted, but reacted with delay. The first amendment in this respect consisted in the fact that the payer of the contributions, who had so far employed employees and who had decided to conclude an employment outsourcing contract, had a duty, by registering employees, to give the Social Insurance Institution the appropriate code, the so-called. Code 800. The second issue, which also involves the need to respond quickly to a signal of possible unfair, illegal outsourcing of workers, is the possibility for the pension authority to assess whether such a transaction is a proper transaction or not. And whether this agreement is an effective agreement or not. As I have already mentioned today, according to the current legislation, the Social Insurance Institution must wait for the court's ruling that this outsourcing agreement was concluded for the sake of appearance and was therefore an invalid agreement. The aim is for the ZUS pension body to be able to assess the employment outsourcing contract as soon as possible, in order not to expose entrepreneurs who have decided to conclude such an agreement, to any damage related to the fact that the unfair outsourcing will not carry out the obligation to pay contributions in the future, and consequently the financial and legal consequences of this type of activity will simply fall on these entrepreneurs. We had a public consultation procedure launched, including inter-ministerial consultations, but still at the work stage within the Council of Ministers, before the meeting of the Standing Committee of the Council of Ministers, due to the urgency of the issue, the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy decided to refer the self-regulation to a number of provisions. It wasn't just about the art. 38a of the Act, but also for example for a change in the article. 83, adding this new type of decision issued by the pension authorities, the decision to determine the payer's contributions. I would like to say that, as a result of the expectations of the employers' environment, which were also expressed in writing much earlier than this letter, signed by the presidents of 4 employers' organisations, representative within the meaning of the Social Dialogue Council Act, on my initiative a meeting of the Social Security Team of the Social Dialogue Council was properly organised. At this meeting there were representatives of all the groups concerned, i.e. not only employers, but also trade union organisations. I think that at this meeting I explained in detail the history and intentions and the objectives that we want to achieve by including this provision in the Law amending the Social Security System. I had the impression that my explanations had been accepted with understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u227	Would the senator like to continue? [[If you don't mind...]] Please. [[I'm gonna have a few questions, so maybe Senator Czerwinski... 'cause he was in front of me and he volunteered, so...]] Finish it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u228	Yes? Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, it appears from your statement that there was no problem, but I would like to ask what was the position of the Government Legislative Centre in relation to the proposed changes in this area. I'd like to say that it was Well, if I'm up to date. It's negative. In other words, the Government Legislating Center, maintaining its comments, says, among others. that the regulation on the transmission of broadcasting information and the premium number is still insufficient. But this, let's say... What worries me most is that the system nature concerns the solution introduced to the project after inter-ministerial arrangements, i.e. introducing the possibility for the Social Insurance Institution to issue an administrative decision in the event of a dispute concerning the determination of the payer's contributions. Disputes may not be the subject of an administrative decision and the assessment of whether the payer has changed as a result of the takeover of employees under Article. 231 of the Labour Code is the exclusive competence of the court. The decision of the Social Security Office cannot therefore replace the decision of the court under any circumstances. What do you say if, as I understand it, the Government Legislative Center didn't share the position of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy on this issue?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u229	Mr Senator, I think it is worth giving information about the further fate of this position of the Government Legislative Centre, because during the meeting of the Committee of the Permanent Council of Ministers it was decided to present this issue to the Legal Commission. This version of the article. Article 38a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) 1 The Social Security Act, which was submitted to the Sejm, contains an already redrafted proposal, so that perhaps the comments which the senator has made here in relation to the article. 38a, refer to the previous version, which was addressed to the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u230	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u231	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. But has it changed dramatically in the law committee, namely that, according to RCL, the decision of the Social Security Office cannot, therefore, in any case replace the ruling of the court...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u232	Mr. Senator... [[Well?]] I don't see the contention here. Here is actually the issue that there are 2 entities, each aspiring to act as a social security payer. In fact, the role of the pension authority in this case is simply to resolve this doubt. I don't see the element of the dispute here. On the other hand, note that the allegation that here the judicial route has somehow been replaced by an administrative procedure and the adoption of an administrative decision is unfounded, because, as we know, decisions by pension authorities are subject to judicial review. Any entity which is the addressee of such a decision may appeal to the General Court. This solution, this procedure in no way closes the judicial path, the possibility of checking the regularity of decisions issued by pension authorities. This is another argument that, you might say, should act calmly on the employers' environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u233	Do you have any further questions? [[Yes, if you don't mind.]] If it's not much, maybe you'll ask all of them right away. Okay? [[Thank you.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u234	Thank you very much. Minister, there is a provision here which says at least I understand it so that the Social Security Office receives powers, I would say, contrary to the fundamentals of civil law, because the establishment obtains the possibility of partial annulment of such an agreement. Does it not seem to you, Minister, that the public administration, the Social Insurance Institution, cannot itself declare the annulment or appearance of a civil law agreement? But shouldn't that be the domain of the courts? The concerns are related to the fact that at the level of the ZUS in a quite rapid mode will be indicated by the company, the specific costs associated with errors that may have been committed, and as a result the problem will be solved in some way to the detriment of the employer. I think that's why there's this major concern and concern that this is going to cause problems for employers. If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal... [[Yeah, yeah.]] The employers' environments reported to me... Do you really believe, Minister, that in this case there is not this very bad rule of action backwards? They claim that it will be the act of the law backwards. It's about this record, this article. And perhaps the last point I would like to raise. Can you assess... Some people say it's gonna be patching a hole in the ZUS, that it's just gonna be an idea to get money from employers, and others... With this amount of arrears due by employers from the new interpretation of the law by the Social Security Office, it is not possible to pay the rates according to the interpretation of the establishment, i.e. backwards. Will such a revision of the rule not lead to problems related to amounts that can be enforced? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u235	Minister, please. There were three questions, and then they'll be further.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u236	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! High Izbo! I agree with the senator that the so-called contract. employee outsourcing falls within the category of civil law contracts. She has various legal effects, as well as effects in the area of labour law, which resulted from my earlier comments, because the employer is changing. It also has consequences in the area of social security law. I want to assure you that the authority of the Social Insurance Institution does not go so far as to result from the decision made by the pension authority regarding the payer of contributions in this very questionable situation. In a situation where the validity of the contract is so called. Employee outsourcing... That's the deal. actually unnamed, there are no such categories of contracts in the Civil Code. This competence of the Social Security Office concerns only the insurance consequences, and this is only the issue which relates to who is the payer of the contributions on which the insurance obligation rests. Surely the Social Insurance Institution will not want to serve courts in the area of e.g. mutual settlement between an unfair outsourcing company and an entrepreneur who was the victim of such an unfair outsourcing company. The Social Insurance Institution certainly doesn't aspire to this role. As for the second question, could it be repeated... [[My second question was just... comprehensively... the main charge that's being raised, which is...]] [[Acting the law backwards.]] [[Yes, exactly, the operation of the law backwards. Isn't he gonna be involved...]] Mr. Senator, I've already answered that question. The provisions of the Social Security Act provide that the period of... [[Five years, I know.]] ...the sale is 5 years, and in this respect there are no changes. It's hard for me to say anything more. The charge of action of the law backwards... [[You don't see it.]] I don't see any violation of the lex retro non agit rule. [[Last, third question. Let's go to the third question.]] Could you remind the senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u237	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, That was the second question, and the third one had to be... It was about this rule that gives competence contrary to the basics of civil law that you were talking about, but... isn't that so... I'm thinking about art. 199th Tax Order, you probably do not remember it, but I will quote it: If, from the evidence gathered in the course of the proceedings, in particular, the testimony of the party, unless the party refuses to testify, there are doubts as to the existence or non-existence of the legal relationship or right to which these tax effects relate, the tax authority asks the general court to determine the existence or non-existence of that legal relationship or right. So...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u238	There's a little more to these rules, Mr. Senator. [[But I...]] Code of Civil Procedure, Art. 189, the possibility of bringing an action to determine the existence or non-existence of a legal relationship as regards the effects we have discussed, the effects of civil law. I will repeat what I said again: this provision only applies to insurance issues. With regard to the specificity of matter or, in fact, the division of law, which is social security law, the natural element of this branch of law is simply the issuing of decisions by pension authorities and, you can say, this proposal or this provision that we are discussing today is part of these canons of insurance law. The pension authority shall issue decisions which could be treated as decisions of a separate nature, of an insurance-based nature, which shall issue those decisions on the basis of the rules, a broad administrative procedure. It can be said that these rules are preserved, but we are dealing with a rather specific appeal, because appeals against decisions of pension authorities in various insurance cases are dealt with by civil proceedings by labour and social security courts. Honestly, I don't see any deviation from the social security rules here. Tax law is also governed by its specific rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u239	It was a series of questions from Senator Duda. Now you're asking Senator Czerwinski a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I'm listening to this discussion. 'Cause it's actually a discussion, maybe less than a series of questions. And I don't understand things anymore. Namely, the state should protect first and foremost the rule of law, i.e. any method of circumvention should be blocked by the State, first, and secondly, it should protect the weakest. Minister, isn't it just that this provision, that is, art. 38a and related point 1a in Article. 83, does he have a job like that? First of all, it should protect the employee, as I understand it, and honest entrepreneurs. Should we really be concerned about the problems of unfair outsourcing companies? Isn't that the role of the state to seal the system?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u241	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u242	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, this is exactly where this bill is headed. We've been looking into it. We've been looking at it. We've been looking at it. It can be said that as regards the protection of the interests of workers affected by the issue of outsourcing of workers, i.e. workers who, under such an apparent contract, have been transferred to a new employer, the interests of these workers are protected by the rules already in force today. The Social Insurance Institution is obliged to record the amounts of contributions due, even if they have not been paid, in the accounts of insured persons. This provision is intended to protect... I would even say that the reduction of the losses suffered by employers, entrepreneurs who have decided to sign such an outsourcing agreement, which then turned out to be a void agreement, because it was a fault of appearance. In no way does this law protect the interests of an unfair outsourcing company. It can be said that the essence of this provision is to enable the Social Insurance Institution to book the payments made by the dishonest outsourcingr on the social security of the employees taken over and to treat these payments as payments made by the trader who became the victim of an unfair outsourcing. I believe that the standards mentioned by the senator in the case of this provision are maintained. Those are the objectives of our bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u243	Thank you. Now you're asking Senator Frost a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u244	Minister, I am reporting a problem that was signaled by entrepreneurs, especially small ones, those who... When we have not yet lowered the Zusovsky contribution, I know that it is in some perspective, as Mr Morawicki has announced, that... It is mainly about those entrepreneurs who carry on a one-man business activity. After this change of laws, when it's one transfer... It'll make life a lot easier. It'll make it easier. You won't even have to fill out these few prints, blanks. However, there is a problem for a marginal part of such individuals. Some people simply collect for ZUS and often pay for this ZUS in 2, sometimes in 3 installments a month. They just don't make enough money to pay full ZUS on time. And there's a problem with sickness insurance. A few years ago, the rules changed, which led businesses to declare themselves whether they want to be covered by sickness insurance or not. It was often the case that if someone didn't have enough for the whole of the Social Security Office, he first paid a sick premium to be entitled to sickness insurance, and then... The condition for being covered by sickness insurance is to pay the entire premium on time. Now we're going to be paying one amount, which, according to the algorithm, is going to be divided into all these funds. If someone doesn't have money on time to pay a full ZUS and pay, I don't know, 3/4 of this amount, so in 3/4 it will be settled into all these accounts. Then such an entrepreneur for 90 days will fall out of the sickness insurance system. Has this problem been signalled somehow? Does the Minister see the problem and see the possibility of solving it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u245	I know the problem, of course. The problem really concerns the sickness insurance of those contributors who pay their own contributions, i.e. persons engaged in non-agricultural activities who, as the senator mentioned, are subject to voluntary sickness insurance. This is not the case in the area of sickness and accident insurance where such persons are covered by an insurance obligation. Indeed, this law introduces a new rule, namely the principle that claims on contributions paid by the payer in a situation where arrears occur shall be credited to the oldest outstanding contribution arrears. I mentioned this, characterizing the bill at the beginning. I was talking about changing standards. I mean, so far it's been that, by paying a social security contribution, the payer himself pointed out the period for which he was paying a social security contribution. And it can be said that very often we have dealt with such a situation, and I am talking about the case of people who do not pay or pay their contributions regularly, that it was precisely the period for which the contribution was paid, indicated by the insured person, that it was simply the current charges for the contributions. And no contributions have been paid which, you can say, have a longer limitation period I do not know whether this is a good definition of those that are simply subject to longer arrears, hoping that there may be a limitation of those contributions, which simply follows a period of 5 years after the creation of such a premium obligation. So it seems to me that in the area of sickness insurance, the solution that in the case of late or incorrect payment of contributions is voluntary insurance, for which, let's say, I have decided, although I do not have such an obligation, simply stops, is a disciplinary solution to pay the contribution in a timely manner and to pay this contribution against current claims, current premiums. And actually, after analysing this problem, we came to the conclusion that we would not want to depart from this principle. As I say, this is voluntary insurance, a person is not obliged by the legislator to be subject to this insurance to pay a premium. If he voluntarily decides to cover the insurance, that is to say, he sees the benefits of such insurance. But she must also be aware that these benefits involve the obligation to bear certain costs However, which are not the highest costs if social security contributions are taken into account, because the sickness insurance premium is 2,45% percentage of the base of the dimension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u246	You're asking Senator Komarnicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u247	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, as a 25-year-old businessman who hasn't missed a ZUS contribution in a day, I have a moral right to ask you a few questions about future entrepreneurs, because I would like them to do the same. As I have so far. My first question concerns the rapid change in Article. 83 of the current bill. Consider: What do we really know today? We know that the ZUS here has the power to decide who will pay the contributions and that there are no transitional provisions in the project. [[Voice from the room: Here we go.]] So these decisions will be able to go backwards. As I understand it, it's supposed to be a prescription for illegal avoidance of contributions. I'm not criticizing my intentions again. But I doubt you've picked the right tool. It will be a huge power of ZUS officials and uncertainty for entrepreneurs That's how I see it. Wouldn't this record, in your opinion, only create more chaos? Now the second question. The first unknown relates to algorithms according to which funds will be allocated to individual funds. The announcement shows that payments will now be counted against the oldest debts. Unfortunately, the government has not presented a draft regulation. So we do not know how this solution will work in practice, and the situation of the insured will depend on these detailed provisions that we do not yet know. Short-term benefits, such as sickness or maternity benefits, depend on current contributions in the case of economic operators and those who pay their own contributions. Doesn't the principle of the settlement of the oldest claims deprive them of their right to benefits in this situation? And whether a mistake in payment, e.g. At 1 gr, wouldn't you take the right to the benefit? And last, third question. So far, Minister, the entrepreneur has decided whether to regulate current contributions or to pay arrears towards the Social Security Office. In line with the changes, repayment of arrears will take place automatically and the rules for such repayment are to be regulated only in the Regulation. Some companies may not even know that they will have new debts in current accounts, and this is a key issue, e.g. when they're taking part in the bidding. I represent construction, and I know it was always the most important document to get into the tenders. Hence my question: shouldn't the rules be so designed as to order the Social Security Office to inform the payer of these arrears and leave it up to the payer to decide the order of payment? Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u248	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u249	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Maybe I'll start with the last question. It can be said that this law makes it even easier for entrepreneurs to obtain a certificate of non-payment of contributions, because of the changes I mentioned The changes that provide for the establishment of an individual account number of the payer of contributions are accompanied by the possibility for the trader to access the payer's account and, you can say, the ongoing monitoring of the state of his obligations related to the broadly understood social insurance. Moreover, the entrepreneur will not have to go to the Social Insurance Institution in order to obtain a traditional paper certificate of non-payment of contributions, because he will be able to use the Social Insurance Institution's IT system and generate himself such a extract, such a printout. And this printout will be treated in accordance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act on an equal footing with such a traditional certificate of non-payment with contributions. Would you mind reminding me of the first question? I'd love to answer that, but... [[Thank you so much for answering that third question. That explains a lot for entrepreneurs. This is very important, especially, as I said, in the context of tenders. Maybe I'll remind you of the first question, because it's important too. The change in the article was introduced at an express rate. 83 of the current bill... should I continue to read that question?]] I see what's going on. First of all, I would like to congratulate this exemplary attitude and the absence of any delays in the implementation of the obligation to pay social security contributions. To answer the senator's question, I'd like to appeal to what I mentioned today. We in the article. 83 of the Act provides for the introduction of a new category of decisions issued by the pension bodies of the Social Insurance Institution, the decision to determine the payer's contributions, but this is not the new competence of the Social Insurance Institution, because I think we will agree on this. It already has quite effective mechanisms or competences, as regards, first, the determination by decision of the pension authority of the obligation of insurance, secondly, the determination of the obligation of contribution. It can be said that in this respect no amendments are foreseen in this law. Art. 83 point 1a, introducing a new category of decision, must be read in the context of these explanations which I have made with regard to Article. 38a of the system act as amended, i.e. to the problem of outsourcing workers and the willingness to accelerate change, to reduce the negative effects of signing an unfair outsourcing agreement for entrepreneurs who have signed such an agreement. The point is that the ZUS response should be as quick as possible and that damage in the form of some sudden increase in liabilities for unpaid contributions in an avalanche manner would not increase. So that's the intention. And then there's the second question. I'm sorry, but... [[I'll remind you, Minister. The first unknown is the algorithm...]] It's a matter of regulation. Well, the draft regulation is ready. We are really looking forward to the conclusion of the legislative work, because until the law is passed, it will not enter into force until there is no reason for such a regulation to be signed, right? So we wait. This regulation sets out very technical issues related precisely to the allocation algorithm between, as I mentioned, these 4 funds, sometimes 5 funds, for commitments for which this uniform contribution to social security contributions is made. As far as the question of whether the payer's contributions to the oldest unpaid contributions are concerned, I will refer to the answer to the question of Senator Mróz. Namely, the intention is to try to limit the limitation of those obligations which are not permanently paid, in a situation where the payer decides to pay contributions on an ongoing basis. I think it's a solution, let's say, fair and reasonable. [[Thank you so much for your answer. I just meant to finally press on those smart guys who think they're entrepreneurs, and they're just crooks and thieves.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u250	Thank you, Senator. You're asking Senator Frost a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u251	Minister, I'll ask you one more question, because you've gone a little in a different direction. You've gone in the direction that someone hasn't paid the ZUS for months, they're getting behind, and of course that's a consequence. Meanwhile, I was talking about entrepreneurs who pay ZUS from month to month and only sometimes do not work out on time, because just for this ZUS they have to earn first. Yes? And today, how am I supposed to pay, let's say I shoot 1 thousand zlotys per ZUS, and I have 800 zlotys, so here's what I'm gonna do: I'm gonna pay for the sickness fund, because if I don't pay 100%, I'm gonna drop out of sickness insurance, and I'm gonna put in some fund that's enough money for me, and at the end of the month I'm gonna raise and pay, plus I'm gonna pay a small interest that's gone up. And such entrepreneurs will be liable for sickness insurance, because if the entrepreneur does not pay the amount in due time and in due amount Even if two zlotys were missing, it would fall out... And the Minister here is right to some extent that it is voluntary, he says it is a small amount. I'm aware that this is a small amount, because this is 2 with a piece of... But in general, if it's included as a whole, then I have to have a full Social Security Office, I can't break that amount anymore, choose which fund I want to contribute to. And the consequences are very, very serious. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. I think it was a mistake to introduce a voluntary sickness insurance solution a few years ago, because if this mechanism hadn't been there, then there would have been some arrears, but I wouldn't lose my rights, but I wouldn't lose my liabilities, I'd have had to pay interest, or maybe I'd have been indebted to the US... The moment we introduced mandatory and detailed rules, you have to pay it absolutely on time, because if you're one day late, you'll be out of the system right away... Well, these are very big restrictions, although, of course, for a group of entrepreneurs. But if someone's on the ZUS, from month to month, wondering what to spend here, then after making this change, it may be that these people are going to fall out of the sickness insurance system massively. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Two comments, Mr. Senator...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u252	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u253	This is a matter that is not regulated... There are two rules at the law level: the first one, which I mentioned, that contributions are counted against the oldest unpaid contributions; and the second one, that the amount of this single transfer is divided using an algorithm. As far as the details of the algorithm are concerned, as I mentioned, this will be regulated at the level of the Regulation. I can promise you that these arguments will be taken into account. When it comes to the phenomenon or the problem or the sickness insurance system at all, it seems to me that this is the subject for a separate discussion, because we have, you can say, some thoughts about the sickness insurance system, the functioning also voluntary sickness insurance. So, as I say, this is actually a subject for a separate discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u254	Thank you. Mr. Senator Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u255	Excuse me, Minister, one last question... of course my last question. I'm sorry. I'd like you to dispel the doubt and explain it again. Me and those who spoke to me about it. There's a point. However, will the Social Insurance Institution not become a judge in its own case? Art. Paragraph 24 5e of the Act on Social Insurance is: The limitation period shall be suspended if the decision is subject to a preliminary ruling by another authority or court. That's what he sounds like. Doesn't it seem to you that the establishment, through such a record, was not authorized in any provision to examine the validity of civil law relations? You've already mentioned that. And isn't he also entitled to rule in civil matters? And do you agree that, in fact, the only competence of the Social Insurance Institution in this dimension is to examine the correctness of the calculation and payment of contributions in the existing physical and legal state? If the U.S.S. would like to challenge this, it should refer the case to the court. Yes? That's one thing. Isn't that gonna make him a judge on his own? These are the questions of those of my conversationalists who fear it. Because we still have the possibility to interpret there, that the rules at issue are an attempt to circumvent the problem of conflict with the constitution. - That's what the stakeholders say. By assuming that any such decision of the establishment will be subject to review by the parties as a result of an appeal. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 38a is even referred to as a valid decision. But isn't that the wrong solution? Because it makes the legality of the State authorities dependent on the active actions of the parties fighting the results of the proceedings, because that is how it can be interpreted. The Authority may not treat itself in advance as a party to a proceeding interested in conducting it in a specific direction, contrary to the basic principles of administrative proceedings. I'd like you to comment on that, to reassure me and those who have such doubts.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u256	I will actually repeat, Mr. Senator, maybe in a slightly different context, these remarks of a sort of calming nature that I had previously presented. This is a solution that is not a novelty in the area of social security law, because the pension authorities of the Social Insurance Institution already have the power to issue decisions determining the legal consequences of civil law contracts. I think we can agree that the contract-order is a civil law agreement. I think we can agree that a work agreement is a civil law agreement. I think we will agree that the pension body of the Social Security Office today, without the need to amend those provisions which are contained in today's law, can, by decision, determine the legal consequences of the various civil law contracts that have been concluded between two entities. And I think we will agree that appeals against such decisions of pension authorities can be addressed to the general court and that the general court has the power to assess and possibly repeal those decisions in terms of their regularity, legality. That's my answer. [[Mr. Marshal, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u257	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u258	Because this is really important from the point of view of all those who are very concerned about it. But I might ask, if it all exists today, why are we changing it? I'm gonna ask you this... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: This, Mr. Senator...]] ...just so we know why we're changing it. Because emotions are really big.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u259	Let me rephrase what I mentioned earlier. [[Yes, sir.]] This change is dictated by the fact that we do not want an entrepreneur who has been the victim of an unfair outsourcing company to wait years for a court ruling to determine the appearance of a civil law contract so-called. staff outsourcing. The effect of such a decision is to impose obligations on such an economic operator's contribution and this is a charge taking into account interest which arose during the period of that multi-month period and possibly a multi-annual procedure. The point is to reduce these negative consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u260	Thank you. [[That's the last...]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u261	I'm really sorry, Minister, because I know you're pretty tired, too, but I'd like to ask you about the question that we've had over there during our meetings in this area. We've probably already moved. Wasn't there a way to not arouse these emotions, to regulate just the outsourcing clipping, so that it wasn't so common, and that it didn't arouse these emotions? Wasn't that possible? Because maybe I...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u262	Mr. Senator, that's actually from the Supreme Auditorium's report, too. The concept of job outsourcing does not exist in the legal language, it does not have such a concept, it is a publicist language. So, entering into the recipe... [[But what is it based on?]] ...a concept that is simply a concept occurring in another area, is, you can say, just a legislative error. It's just that we wouldn't decide for this type of procedure, and we wouldn't recommend these kinds of solutions. If the senator asks about my assessment of the amendment which was tabled during the Senate committee meeting, then I would like to say that simply this amendment... Maybe I'll quote the text of the amendment. According to this proposal, the new Article. Article 38a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) 1 should read as follows: if the worker has moved to another employer under Article. 231 of the Labour Code, and in connection with the investigation or control of the performance of social security contributions by payers, it is necessary to make a decision stating the obligation for the relevant payer to notify social security contributions and to determine the contributions due, the undertaking shall issue such a decision to the person who has notified the social security insured and to the payer of the premiums established by the undertaking. This proposal, at the very beginning, is burdened with error. I am talking about a passage which reads as follows: if there has been a transition of an employee to another employer under Article. 231 of the Labour Code. I was trying to explain that we're dealing with a situation where by law... We must bear in mind that the provision of the article. 231 of the Labour Code is a provision that has an impact ex lege. This is not a rule which, you might say, is the consequence of some legal act You could say that these are the consequences. ex lege. The problem is that the current practice of the courts was moving towards the so-called. Outsourcing agreements which were simply concluded in a way that was not intended to be concluded as apparent and consequently invalid contracts. Thus, we cannot in the legal standard save the transition of an employee to another employer under Article. 231 because there was no such passage. This is, as I say, a proposal that is burdened with error from the very beginning. Therefore, we could not recommend this proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u263	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Łuczak made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Nature Conservation. The text of the Act is contained in print No 475 and the committee's report in print No 475 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Environment Committee, Senator Zdzisław Pupa, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The subject of the discussion is the Act amending the Nature Conservation Act in print No 475. This is the Act of 7 April 2017. It is carried out, among others. the following changes to the rules for the removal of trees and shrubs. The Act requires natural persons to declare their intention to remove trees with a circumference of more than 100 cm in the case of fast-growing species and 50 cm in the case of other species. In addition, the Act introduces an obligation to inspect such a tree by the authorities of the municipality and the possibility of objecting to the removal if: the property is entered in the register of monuments; the property is protected in the spatial planning plan; the property is on the area of nature conservation such as. National park, nature reserve, landscape park, Natura 2000 protected landscape area, or when a tree meets the criteria to be protected as a natural monument. Objection will require permission to remove the tree in normal mode. The Act introduces a rule against the removal of trees from real estate to prepare it for commercial investments. According to it, if, within 5 years of the inspection, a building permit is requested which will be linked to the operation of the business on the part of the property on which the tree grew, a fee will have to be paid for its removal. The Act introduces administrative fines for acts which do not comply with the said rules on the removal of the tree despite opposition or without notification. This law restores the obligation to agree with the Regional Environmental Director to allow the removal of a tree in the public road lane. The obligation to issue a regulation on rates of fees for the removal of trees and shrubs and a regulation on criteria for the recognition of trees as natural monuments is also introduced within 6 months of the date of entry into force of the Act. In the course of the discussion, amendments were tabled, which are clarification amendments, and amendments to make the law correlate with implementing acts; for example, they are proposed. the date of entry into force of the Act. It must be said explicitly that the penalties for the removal of trees have not changed. I think that the introduction of the law that has been introduced here will lead to a situation where a new control over the cutting of trees will be exercised, which will not allow for mass cutting. The removal of trees in the public opinion was treated as an uncontrolled, unjustified cut-off. I appeal for the adoption of the bill which has been submitted and to which amendments have been adopted in the Senate Committee. I hope that the bill will find recognition and understanding among the senators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u265	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Komarnicki, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u266	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. I'd like to ask who's really going to qualify, what's a tree and what's a shrub. I am curious how the municipality will post factum prove that in the forest, for example. An alderman was cut out, which is legally a shrub, not a tree. Nor will it be lawful to do so. The bill by those who know about it is imprecise here. That's my first question. Second question. The law imposes great responsibilities on local governments, because local governments will implement it. Has this law been consulted at all, e.g. With organizations like community associations? What costs will municipalities bear under this specific law? Were financial analyses carried out in connection with the introduction of the law? Its functioning will bring a certain cost. And one last question. I'd like to ask you as much as you can imagine, after five years, to see if anybody ever cut out a tree in a given area. After all, these provisions of the bill will be completely dead. It's not like anybody's gonna make sure that someone pays the penalty if they build something or, God forbid, start a business there after five years. The bill doesn't regulate anything, but according to local government, it builds administration in local governments and municipalities. After all, not only will it be necessary to apply for tree cutting, but it will also need to be monitored for 5 years. In other words, officials will have to go there, check whether they are in business. It's fatal, and according to people... [[Mr. Senator, ask me a question.]] ...unreal for surveillance. That was my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u267	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u268	Mr. Senator, about the matter of who's gonna control this. I'm gonna start from the end. I think that the authority that will issue permissions to cut down trees should check this before granting permission to build a facility or to operate a business in the area. This is actually quite simple, because practically in the same office this action will take place, i.e. in the municipal office. The middle question is: was the law consulted? I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is a parliamentary project, it is not a government project, and it was going so-called. A quick message path. If the project follows such a parliamentary path, it does not require public consultation. That's why I don't know if he's been consulted. However, I think it was expected because of the media behavior, the information that appeared, as well as what your group was doing. After all, you remember there was a strong protest against this bill, that there was information that trees were being cut out massly. Therefore, I think that my political formation is doing everything it can to meet the social expectations and comments that are being reported. And I think that should be considered a proper consultation. Besides, you're talking about shrubs in the woods. I think that this law does not apply to shrubs in the woods at all, because it only applies to individual parcels, private parcels, which are owned by a natural person and not by a natural person. Legal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u269	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Florek. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u270	I think back to the Column Hall, where the draft of the previous bill was adopted. And I remember what it was like before. If someone wanted to cut out the tree, you had to report it to the commune, the future committee, checked and generally agreed to cut out the tree. If it was on the property of a natural person, no fees were paid. When the amendment came into force, we had such a situation that the legal persons did not They could cut anything they wanted on their lot. That's how you could cut everything out. Well, what the rapporteur said, the noise has gone a little bit. We've seen what it looks like everywhere. And now it's got to be a way out of this situation. And here's my question. Before that, you had to report it all. Explain whether after this change in the case of every tree we cut, we have to make a report or not. And if I make a call... This is, of course, only related to economic activity. It's about not being able to build anything in five years. If you build it, look, you have to pay according to the bill. And so now... If I called in earlier, the committee would come and see what I had on this lot. If I report now, we don't know if he's coming or not, maybe he won't come, but it'll be all recorded, and for five years the committee can come and see. Based on what document? Based on a document, which means either a sketch or a map. This is the way it is written in the bill. I understand that when it was submitted immediately and the committee came, the matter was clear. But after five years, if she gets a 1:500 scale map like this, there's no way we're gonna be able to figure out where that tree was. So the question is whether it's a dead order or not we're pretending that we want to be restrictive, that we want these penalties to be, but it won't be possible to execute it. The question is, isn't that a dead recipe? [[No, you won't tell me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u271	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u272	Mr. Senator, it was nice to see you at the meeting of the Senate Committee on the Environment, when the bill was discussed. You were a guest at the entire committee meeting, you know the course of the committee meeting, so you know that this particular topic was not discussed at this committee meeting. But I want to assure you that this recipe in my opinion will not be dead.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u273	Okay, now I have a question for you, Senator. Has this law been consulted, or has it not been consulted? Because you presented the legal situation, that the parliamentary projects do not need to be consulted. [[Yes.]] But was she consulted or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u274	I didn't get any information that she was being consulted. [[I see.]] At the committee meeting, I didn't... [[Do you think...]] We didn't discuss this at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u275	I understand. You didn't discuss it. There were some suggestions you made in your reply. Was the fact that she wasn't consulted a result of the opposition... [[Please?]] ...the opposition's actions? It was the opposition's action...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u276	No, I think there was a social expectation. [[Good.]] And that's it. [[Social or opposition, Mr...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u277	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u278	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Social expectations? I didn't see our country's community against this bill. Rather, it is a question of the opposition's screams, which today speaks poorly and not on the subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u279	I mentioned it, Mr. Senator. Thank you for reminding me. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u280	Thank you for putting a dot over Senator Dobrzyński. That's what I'm talking about. Are there any other questions for the senator? There isn't. Thank you, Senator. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Would Minister Andrzej Schweda-Lewandowski like to speak? Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u281	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the proposal to amend the Nature Conservation Act, it should be noted first of all that, in the light of the Act of 16 December 2016, the exemption of natural persons from the obligation to submit to administrative procedures for the removal of trees and shrubs, the re-imposition of obligations on these persons and the introduction of the possibility of severe penalties for infringements is a step backwards, according to the environmental department. In our view, the regulations resulting from the last year's amendment have put in place the right solutions to restore the right for citizens to manage the greenery on their property and eliminate unnecessary, costly administrative procedures and the possibility of imposing high penalties for illegal logging. Therefore, the Ministry of Environment is critical of the proposed changes. The changes introduced on 1 January this year revealed above all the weakness of the spatial planning system, the lack of inventory of greenery at municipal level, the poor control of local services over compliance with the Nature Conservation Act and other long-term negligence of local authorities in this area. It should also be stressed that cases relating to green areas and bushes, in accordance with the Municipal Government Act, are the tasks of the municipalities themselves. At the same time, Art. The 78th Nature Conservation Act states that the municipality is responsible for the creation and maintenance of green areas. The rules that were in force before 1 January, as demonstrated by their repeal, actually shifted the obligation to keep the green on the shoulders of ordinary citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u282	Thank you. Minister, just a moment, because there are questions for you, so that... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Andrzej Schweda-Lewandowski: Me?]] Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u283	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Well, you did a great job, Minister, saying the local authorities are responsible for everything. We remember how it was before the amendment, how the rules worked and how it all worked. Of course, property is sacred and here you could discuss, but what happened, this massive section of trees, is something incomprehensible. Minister, you have said, as I understand it, that when it comes to the amendment, the government believes I didn't know the government's position, but from what you just said, that's what it says. That this first amendment was the right one, the right one, which is this one... As Minister Szyszko said, actually this amendment we are talking about today is practically nothing. But, Minister, my question is this: 'Cause I was actually at that committee meeting... You were talking about what forms of nature conservation are, about those 10 points. You were talking about points 1 and 5 about national parks, etc., that all of this is protected, but we were saying that there are no points 6 and 10 in this law, i.e. regarding natural monuments, documentaries, forest areas. The Lord said it's somewhere in other laws and that these pastures are all protected. I understand that national parks, reserves are protected by other laws, but I didn't find anywhere where these documenting posts, ecological pastures, etc... I understand that when it comes to natural monuments, this is a regulation that, as you say, will be issued within six months, and that will be regulated there. However, the law does not contain the following paragraphs 6 and 10. Question: Where is it protected, where is it said that the municipality will be able to refuse consent, to object? That's not in the bill, so they're gonna be looking in the commune, checking these documents somewhere, and there's not gonna be much time to object. Why isn't it in the bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u284	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u285	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! This is a parliamentary project, and this is primarily a question to the projectors, but by examining the Nature Conservation Act, it should be made clear that in order to adopt these forms of nature conservation, which are not mentioned in your article, there must be a resolution of the municipality council. In this resolution, the commune's council must list literally the prohibitions that apply in the case of non-listed forms of nature conservation, i.e. documentation post, ecological use, and among these prohibitions concerning these forms of nature conservation is the literally prohibited removal of trees. As a result, trees in those protected areas not listed here referred to in points 6 and 10 of the Nature Conservation Act are literally protected by the act which sets them up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u286	Thank you, Minister. Senator Rotnicka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u287	Dear Marshal, Minister! I am, of course, a member of the committee and I will speak on this bill. However, I would still like to hear from you the answer to the question I was asked and a deeper explanation. Something like property rights was the basis of these changes. One record says that there is a right to restore land free of charge to the state of agricultural use. Yes? Let's say there's a tree-grown land that doesn't have a name for it, but there are quite an X-year-old tree on it. And now, is it a restoration to farming that you can cut everything out without permission and without permission? And the question is, if a farmer in such a situation, restores the land to agricultural use and is a farmer or an economic operator, will build a greenhouse in his territory or establish a high-green farm... What rules will apply to this farmer? Will he be a natural person or a person who carries on an economic activity? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u288	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u289	Agricultural activity is primarily not an economic activity... [[It's not?]] There it is. [[There it is.]] It's an economic activity, yes. If the tree is removed for business purposes, then the farmer should get a. We talk all the time about the law that is in force at the moment. permit, however, if he wants to restore the forested land overgrown Self-propelled agricultural use must not be authorised to remove trees and shrubs. As far as this issue is concerned, we in the Ministry have a dozen complaints from farmers about these provisions before 1 January, which were just saying that the farmer must obtain a decision to remove such trees and at the same time pay the fee. Often it was financially unbearable for the farmer. Thank you. [[Thank you...]] [[Let me get this straight...]] [[Yes, please.]] [[So there is no such requirement for the farmer as regards the appropriate parameters for the thickness of the trees. Yes? If it's over 100 centimeters...]] Under current law: no. [[And according to what we're taking?]] Then ask the bill designer. You have to look at this bill, where there are amendments... I think that perhaps the rapporteur will answer this question... [[Voice from the Chamber: The Member cannot...]] [[The rapporteur's time is up.]] This recipe, I guess, stayed. I read here so fast... So that this provision has been made, that is, the farmer will still be able to remove the tree in order to restore the land to agricultural production without authorisation... [[...even though the tree will be big, old and wide.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u290	Now the question is asked by Senator Stanisławek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u291	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. First of all, I would like to say that I agree with the position of the Ministry and I do not really understand the parliamentary initiative. I have a question for the Minister about the previous bill, the one still in force. The opposition's biggest cry was that somebody cut down trees on their own property and then sold them... without financial consequences. I have a question for the Minister about the interpretation of the article. 83f point 3a, which says that if we remove trees or shrubs that grow on real estate owned by natural persons and are removed for purposes not related to doing business... Isn't it clear enough that if we cut out the trees on our own property and sell them, we're doing business? Because to me, it's absolutely the same thing. So we cut out the trees and sell the lot. Are we allowed?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u292	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u293	The sale of the plot itself by a natural person is not an economic activity by it... [[But we sell to the developer, and that's the business, because there's income...]] There is income, but it is not an economic activity. The sale of a single property is not an economic activity. Every one of us or... Most of us sold, for example. An apartment, a lot or a car. And did we then conduct business according to tax regulations? I don't think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u294	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u295	So it wouldn't just be enough to make a change to this point? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Andrzej Schweda-Lewandowski: This is a question for projectors when it comes to changes...]] I don't know. You live in the same country as us. It's true, isn't it? There was a huge exchange of views in all the media. The opposition was outraged. Some people, especially those who don't have trees on their own turf, were against cutting down trees because if someone doesn't have a tree on their own turf, they don't understand this law. But the most controversial thing was the record, which is that we cut the trees and sell the plot. Wouldn't it be enough to change this one point and not make all the fuss?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u296	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u297	If the senator thinks so, please propose an appropriate amendment to this proposal. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u298	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Senator Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u299	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, we know that the government is not the drafter of this bill, that it is a parliamentary project. I also know the position. You presented them here. The government. I'd like you to confirm or deny a few points. They were kind of raised here, although maybe not quite precise. Which this amendment of the law brings. If you were able to answer me if I was right... There's art. Paragraph 83f. 5 - Of course, I'm talking about the project. Which regulates the notification of the intention to cut out the tree. It is stated that the applicant shall submit as an annex a drawing or a map indicating the location of the tree on the property. I read the text of the proposed law, it is written exactly like this: drawing. I'm not suggesting... Because one of the senators' colleagues asked if it would have to be a map. No, not necessarily, it doesn't have to be a map, it's enough for someone to draw a drawing just like they can, if you read the rules directly. Now I have a question about the term, because then there's the administrative penalty in the case of tree clippings... It hasn't been five years, the organ comes in and finds that the tree has been cut out. In the same article in the mouth. 6 is mentioned that during the inspection of the place the name of the tree species, the circumference of the trunk is determined, but there is no mention of the location. So, in fact, we're only using a drawing or a map to determine the location of the tree. I have this question: on what basis will the organ determine after a few years, which exactly was a tree? Because it doesn't exist, this project doesn't impose an obligation to accurately determine the location of the tree. I cannot imagine the situation in which this will be done on the basis of a manual drawing. Like I said... One of the senators asked here about the map, whether it would be an outline from the registration map. Well, it would have to be in this bill that it's supposed to be an expression from the registration map. Then you'd have to go to the county old-fashioned, get a figure like that... [[It raises the cost.]] Well, it raises the cost, of course, but if, based on some manual drawing, we find out what location the tree was in... That's one topic, if you could relate to it... The second topic is also covered by Article. 83f, referring to the decision on the construction permit, which is related to the business activity and will be carried out on the part of the property on which the tree was grown. Okay, theoretically, it's pretty understandable. But what will happen when I, doing single-person business, and these types of companies are tens, hundreds of thousands, e.g. at home, in a private apartment, at my private address, I'm going to start building a house, I'm going to build this house, of course before I remove the trees, and I'm going to use one of the rooms of the newly built house for my business, let's say, for... [[E.g. For the office.]] ...to the accounting office? And now I have a question: was this tree cutting connected with my business or not? I'd like you to say a few words about whether you're able to assess it or not. I know you're not the designer of this bill. Because if, in this case, we acknowledge that this is related to our business, they will really be affected, and tens, hundreds of thousands of our citizens can be affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u300	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u301	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to stress that I did not present the position of the government, because there is no such position for this project, I presented the position of the Ministry of the Environment. When it comes to doing business... I also stress all the time that I do not want to explain the project's designers here, because indeed the interpretation of some of the provisions proposed here may be unclear. However, the fact is that the concept of a fee for the removal of trees for purposes not related to the conduct of the business carried out by a natural person has been in force for a long time in the Act is not a new concept. So that perhaps the authority which will use these provisions, if they enter into force, will be assisted by the knowledge and interpretation of those provisions before 1 January. So it's hard for me to tell you what it's gonna be like. And when it comes to this map or sketch, I think It is for common sense that the body will verify the location of the trees during the local vision, and that will be the responsibility of the authorities during the local vision. This is how I imagine it, and in more detail I cannot answer these questions, please ask the draftsman.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u302	Unfortunately, Minister, the rapporteur has already completed his speech. [[It was about the applicant.]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Andrzej Schweda-Lewandowski: I was talking about the applicant.]] Yeah, but there are no applicants. Senator Dobrzyński, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u303	Mr Marshal, I also, of course, have a question for the Minister, but first, I will ask whether Members have been invited to our meeting today. I mean the representatives of the applicants. Why aren't they here? [[You're talking to me?]] Yes. Were they invited? [[I don't know. You have to ask Marshal Karczewski.]] Minister! High Senate! Well, about the senator who was talking about the mass logging of the trees... Mr. Senator, you know perfectly well that when it comes to the mass cutting of trees, 90%. It was a clipping outside the law, just illegal. This bill didn't authorize the clipping of the trees you were talking about, and making it out of this plarum... Well, I can't believe you don't know that. I just don't believe it. Minister, you mentioned the samosies. Senator Rotnicka asked a question about agricultural crops, but there are many different types of parcels, areas or areas in cities, which are also covered with samosies. In the event of such a situation, will the owner be able to cut these self-seeds on the same basis as the farmer?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u304	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u305	I understand that the senator is asking about the project, i.e. about what's written in the project we're investigating. The situation is that no permit will be required for the corresponding circuits at 130 cm height. In the case of poplar, willow, chestnut, ash maple, silver maple, acacia Robin and maple flat, you will not need to be allowed to remove trees up to 100 cm of circumference, and for the remaining ones up to 50 cm. [[Shortly, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u306	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u307	I'm so sorry. I have a quick question. I understand that with regard to all these proposals made by the Sejm, which differ from this first version of the law, the Ministry is negative and does not support these provisions. Am I getting this right, Minister? I mean, of course, the Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u308	Well, according to the Ministry, it is a return to legislation, to certain administrative proceedings which abolished the amendment of the Act of 1 January. That novel got rid of all the luggage of administrative proceedings. It is also worth saying that from the query we conducted for the Ministry's position on the law which entered into force on 1 January, it appears that practically only 1 the decision to remove the trees before 1 January was negative. The great majority of the It can be said that almost all of them were positive decisions, so it was an overdeveloped administrative procedure. Well, according to what I said, it wasn't really necessary. The same was true of agreeing with regional environmental directors to cut down trees along the roads. Well, it's 95%. These arrangements ended positively.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u309	Thank you. Mr. Senator, just one more word on the formal matter you've been asking about. The Rules of Procedure do not provide for the presence of a representative of the applicants and their speaking. [[And that's why we didn't invite anyone?]] But the marshal always has the opportunity to invite anyone, any guest, and give him the floor. I think that at the moment this discussion shows that it was possible to change the rules in this point, because, however, the situation in which all others, including the Minister, who does not want to do this and is slightly distant, are not good for applicants. But it's a matter of changing the rules. There is at the moment no provision in the Rules of Procedure for applicants to be invited and to speak. Now we move on to Senator Czarnobaj's questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u310	Mr. Marshal! Minister! As this is a parliamentary initiative, I would like to ask you not about the law itself, but about what the Minister said, especially in the last sentence. Could you elaborate on the thesis made by the Minister in his statement of reasons? That the people's shoulders have been dropped keeping the greens? Could you elaborate on that? That's the first question. I understand that at the time of the previous bill that the Minister was talking about... Could you tell me exactly how this was going? I'm asking because I'd like to deepen my knowledge after 20 years in the local government. I would also like to revise the Minister's view. How did the local governments shift the maintenance of greenery onto citizens' shoulders, as the Minister said? And second question. Minister, I am not a member of the committee, therefore... I am sure that the Minister knows what the issue of tree protection is in these situations in other European Union countries. Are we doing like the others, or are we going in a completely different direction? I'm very curious about that. If the Minister knows, I'm asking you for an answer, and if you don't, maybe you can make a written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u311	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u312	Senator, as far as the second question is concerned, I would very much like to ask for a written reply. I don't want to overthink things here, because in different countries it's regulated by law. As far as the issue of moving is concerned, I would say that the scream that rose after January 1 showed it all very clearly. I was talking about it in the explanatory note. Art. The 78th Nature Conservation Act makes it clear that the municipality is obliged to establish green areas. Warsaw is a negative example here. If private owners recover land in green areas, in parks, why can't they be talked to and bought from them so that it's still available to the public green area? Why can't you do that? Warsaw didn't do it. We know an example of a square located opposite the magistrate of the office of Łódź... sorry, Warsaw Śródmieście. We know an example of another park. I forgot his name. There is also an example from a few years ago, an example of Arkadia Park, where the developer bought a plot located practically in the middle of the park from the person who recovered it. Such things belong to the tasks of the municipalities themselves. At the time when the January 1st Act gave freedom to manage greenery on its own land, it turned out that green areas were disappearing from cities because they were on private land. Now, let's see if we can make the rules, I'd say, the opposites. Let us create such mechanisms that people who have green land in the cities in question pay some compensation for keeping this green. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u313	Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal?]] Yes? [[Can I have another sentence?]] We're asking questions right now. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u314	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The last thing you said to the Minister was interesting. Maybe it's worth thinking about. It shows that when people debate and not just come up with ideas, they sometimes come up with ideas. Minister, I'm going back to my question. Leave Warsaw for now. I'm not gonna talk about it 'cause it's like a gingerbread for a windmill. I'm talking about your example. Tell me what you mean. I'm really intrigued by this. Saying that the maintenance of greenery was being shifted onto citizens' shoulders. Well, explain it to me, if that's possible. If you don't, just say, "I can't explain." I'll take that as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u315	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u316	Mr. Senator, at a time when legally the owners began to remove trees from private areas because they had such needs, it turned out that the cities were less and less green. Yes? That was the general view, such voices flowed from Krakow, from Gdansk, from Sopot... [[But that's not what I asked.]] If we scream... There was a general cry that rules should not have been introduced that give freedom to manage greenery on their own sites. Those who raised this cry demanded that this greenery be there, and demanded that the cities be green. [[Logical.]] I think that's logical.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u317	Good. Thank you. Minister, things may have happened in the country, but not a single tree has been cut out in Sopot... [[They butchered the trunk.]] ...because Sopot is protected. That's Sopot. I just... But by the way, Minister, wouldn't what you're talking about be arranged through existing spatial planning? Because you say you have to buy it from the owner. Is this where... Isn't just a spatial planning plan enough here? If there's green in there, can't you put a house?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u318	Very good question, Mr. Marshal. That's what you have to ask. I'm going to go back to Warsaw again. Why all urban parks are not covered by spatial planning plans, why in these plans it is not indicated that there is a ban on buildings in these areas that the area is to be greened. Let's go back a few years, and a very important thing...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u319	Minister, I don't want to argue with you. I would just like to point out that the development plans, if any, regulate these issues. That's all I wanted to draw attention to. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Andrzej Schweda-Lewandowski: Well, yes.]] Senator Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u320	Mr. Marshal, Minister, High Izbo, I have four questions. The first question arises from what you have repeatedly stressed: that this is not a government project and therefore, in many cases, you have no opinion. But isn't it right? And that's my question. . that you may have an opinion on this matter, whether the project is government or parliamentary, because what we are talking about here is in the area of your tasks, in the area of your vital interests, as the competent ministry? And shouldn't you be working actively in the meetings of both the Parliament and the Senate committees so that solutions can be made? Even if you did not agree with a certain direction, were the best? That's my first question. The second question refers in some part to what Senator Rotnicka was talking about. Namely, don't you think that we are dealing with a certain aspect of discrimination against natural persons, property owners operating in the field of the right to remove the trees on their property and to favour farmers? In my view, this issue requires clarification, for example, in the context of the constitutional principle of equal treatment against the law. Question three: in the case of dead trees or in the event of a higher need, would it not be advisable, in your opinion, to replace the requirement to obtain authorisation by requiring notification to the authority? And last, fourth question. Would it not be appropriate to propose any compensation for landowners in cases where, for the sake of the good protected by the laws, natural and environmental advantages do not obtain permission to cut down trees and therefore material damage will be suffered by them as a result of, for example, the use of natural and environmental benefits. The fall of a tree?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u321	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u322	I'll start from the end, Mr. Senator. This has always been the case when the trees are removed with the permission that the authority issuing the permit or prohibiting the removal of the tree is liable. This is clear. And the authority took this into account by issuing these decisions before 1 January. And probably now that the change in question comes into force, he'll consider it too. As far as agricultural activities are concerned, this is a specific activity. Agricultural land has often been abandoned, uncultivated in recent years. Now this agricultural activity is being intensified. It is therefore difficult to ask the farmer to pay hundreds of thousands of zlotys for wanting to restore the land to a proper and consistent land use record. Moreover, exceptions are included in the Act when no fees for the removal of trees are payable, and these exceptions also apply to the restoration of land use in accordance with local plans and in accordance with the provisions in the land register. That's what it looks like here. I think, judging by the echoes that this record in farming environments has triggered about the release of farmers from the decision that it was as expected and as accurate as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u323	Thank you, Minister. Are you still a senator? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u324	It was a question of the first question regarding the activity of the Ministry in the works. I have expressed my opinion that she should be high because she is in charge of the Minister's ministry. Don't you think my view is correct that this activity should be high? The Minister is here expressing his opinion that it is actually, I would say, a foreign case.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u325	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u326	I'm in committee meetings... [[The Minister said he didn't agree.]] ...I was expressing my position on these changes. As I said, in the opinion of the Ministry, the changes that entered into force on 1 January were right changes from our perspective. As I said, this bill is a sure return to the administrative mechanisms, which, as the query we conducted showed, were often unnecessary before 1 January, because 99% or 98% the decision was positive.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u327	Thank you, Minister. Senator Bonisławski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u328	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like a more precise answer. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 83a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (a) (iii) (a) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (a) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (a) (a) Doesn't the removal of these alien species of poplar require some agreement? Can they be cut or are they not cut at all? 'Cause it's hard to... Here we would have to ask the question, what about anthropophic poplars, and we have a lot of them in Poland. The species of native poplars, as you may know, we have 3, but they mostly grow in clusters, not on roads. The next question is what's in the mouth. Article 8 83f. Here is the statement that within 14 days of the day of inspection the local government may object by administrative means; the removal of the tree may take place if the authority has not raised an objection within that period. And it goes on to say that this objection can be delivered by post and counts as the day of the letter. Knowing that the mail is very often I'm finding out for myself. supplies letters within 16, 23 days... We can cut this tree out, and we'll get word that it shouldn't be cut out. That's the second question. The third concerns the fact that within 5 years of the inspection and so on... If the plot is bought by someone else's second hand, I don't think the other owner should be paying to remove the tree five years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u329	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u330	Mr. Senator, as far as the record on poplars is concerned, this is the one that appeared in the revision of the bill that the previous government has passed. These are not new records, these records have already been in force. In 2015, when the PO-PSL coalition was involved in the amendment of the law, this provision was introduced. As far as further questions are concerned, as I say, ask the author of this change, not me. I'm studying too... If she comes into force, I'll have to learn how to interpret these rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u331	Good. Minister, I will no longer comment. You're welcome, Senator Crack.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u332	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question about the scale of this clipping, which was commented so loudly in the media. Did the Ministry have the opportunity Is that an estimate? Was it really such a gigantic scale, or was it just a feyk, a media fact? That picture of a squirrel on that trunk turned out to be such a media fudge. Is there anything the Minister can say about this?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u333	Thank you kindly. I would add, if anyone counted how many trees were cut out, possibly defined an area... Did you try to sum it up to resist the allegations of the previous law, that is, the law that is currently in force?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u334	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! The situation is in this way that we of course asked several city presidents and marshals' offices in which these cities are located, as well as the conservators of monuments operating in these cities, about the scale of clippings of trees. With regard to the cut-off without the permission of the law, we did not get precise information, because the law does not force the municipalities to register this cut-off, according to the law, i.e. the cuttings of trees for which no permit is required. We received data on the number of trees that were cut after 1 January on the basis of decisions issued either in 2016 or as of 1 January 2017. I don't have the data. I can give you the whole setup. From what I remember, in Warsaw, by decision, about 5,000 trees were removed since 1 January. Therefore, media information that something was cut out here, something cut out there, and information that appeared on social networks, about how so many trees were cut out at this and this street, and how many trees were mixed up. So to speak, this record was mixed with the records of trees that were cut out in accordance with decisions made sooner or later. As far as information is concerned on social networks, they were imprecise, too. We've looked into a few situations. One of the entries on the social network stated that 200 oaks were removed from the land area in Łódź, while it turned out that it was not 200 and 20 oaks. If we wanted to collect information from these social networks, we'd make a big mistake when it comes to calculations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u335	Thank you, Minister. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u336	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you have undoubtedly convinced me, as far as points 6 and 10 are concerned, that there must be a legal basis here. We absolutely need to make an amendment here. But I'd like to speak with you... Mr Dobrzyński spoke here about this first version of the law; you also claim that this second version, this prosthesis, is unnecessary. I therefore have a brief question, Minister. The natural person bought the plot on 20 February 2017 from the legal person, it was a plot of wood. 5 days later, on February 25, she cut out all the trees and then applied for construction conditions because there is no zoning plan. If he gets construction conditions and builds there e.g. A gas station, it's gonna have to pay the municipality a tree-cutting fee or not? Because so far you had to pay the fees and so on. He'll build a gas station, all under the law. You're saying everything's okay. So what I'm asking is, will she have to pay for it or not? It's a very simple question, so I think... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Andrzej Schweda-Lewandowski: Question to which the senator...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u337	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u338	...knows the answer. [[Yes.]] Well, since you know the answer, the law doesn't apply backwards. It's just that. [[So there won't be an answer.]] [[No, it's just... now you know what this is all about. He's cutting himself to morga. And who will suffer the consequences?]] [[Voice from the hall: And you cut and what?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u339	Sure. The law doesn't apply backwards. [[Voice from the room: You don't cut. Who? I didn't cut one.]] [[Charges don't affect...]] Gentlemen of the Senators! You guys have trees? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Okay, I can't turn on because I don't have trees. You're discussing with each other. Good. The Minister replied. [[No, he didn't answer.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] He said the law doesn't apply backwards. To me, it's... [[No, but he didn't answer straight. We want to make it more clear...]] [[He answered as he said...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] All right. The Minister shall answer as he may answer. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u340	Minister, you probably haven't missed it, like all of us, like the public, that the introduction of this new law, which you have proposed, has, however, resulted in a strong increase in the number of trees cut out in Poland. Then why are you now? That's my question. Is he trying to transfer responsibility to local governments? The law on self-governments was in force before, and such a scale of clipping was not in place. You've given this impulse. And please don't shift responsibility to anyone, because there was a time before, and there was no scale of clipping. So that's my first question: why are you doing this? And the other one... I'm just gonna take a little bit of that cui bono, who benefits from it, why it was done. You might say that sometimes absurd law leads to absurdity. My question is this. I know Tuczno. I know the location of Minister Szyszka's estate, which is supposed to be worth nothing, and, by the way, it's more like hundreds of thousands... So please tell me whether under this new law Without questioning whether the Minister knew it or not... Because according to my knowledge, you can't in Tuczno, in this place, without alerting all the neighbors to cut out these trees. It's impossible. [[A saw!]] It's impossible. The saw... But let's assume it was without him knowing. In the light of the new law, would it be possible or not to do so on its own initiative?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u341	I don't understand what you're suggesting, Senator. Mr. Marshal, I think we need to respond here because there was a clear suggestion from the senator. [[That he's cutting out the trees.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u342	Mr. Senator... [[Are you suggesting that the Minister cuts out trees?]] What was the question?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u343	The question was, in light of the new law, could the owner... [[Cut...]] Whether he could remove trees on his property at this height, without paying or not.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u344	The amendment of the Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2017, provides that a natural person may remove a tree without authorisation for non-business purposes. [[Sure. Mr. Senator Bonisławski...]] [[But the Minister didn't answer the first question.]] Could you repeat that question because... [[Why, seeing how strongly the scale of tree cutting has increased, are you trying to shift responsibility to the local government?]] Here you should ask yourself a question and diagnose it as follows. It would be appropriate to examine how many legally cut trees which entered into force on 1 January would have been or would not have been allowed to remove the tree if the owner had applied for it. And then we'd have an answer. [[But that's not what you have.]] Since until 1 January in case of 99% the requests were positive, it should be assumed that all those who cut out the trees after 1 January would also get positive decisions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u345	Thank you. [[No, they wouldn't, because they'd know you couldn't.]] Mr. Senator, it is clear that the Minister has already replied that there are no such statistics on tree clippings during the period of validity of the new law. He said there was only a statistics of cutting out according to the old law. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Andrzej Schweda-Lewandowski: Decisions issued...]] Made decisions according to the old law. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Andrzej Schweda-Lewandowski: And according to the new one too.]] Oh, and according to the new one, too. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Andrzej Schweda-Lewandowski: Yes, sir.]] Senator Sławomir Rybicki. [[I volunteered.]] I signed you in, but you volunteered later.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u346	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, in December 2015, after the Paris climate conference, Prime Minister Szydło and Minister Szyszko announced their success by saying that they were able to include one of the Polish demands, namely the use of forests and forestation as one of the elements of the reduction, reduction of carbon dioxide emissions. In the light of this law, how do you assess the possibility of fulfilling this obligation? And what about the impact assessment? If the Minister said he was unable to estimate the scale of the cuts, how can we defend this solution? Do we know that the forest protects against carbon dioxide absorption?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u347	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u348	Very correct statement at the end, Senator. The forest protects, you know. So let me say that the forest area, the forest area, has not decreased as a result of the amendment of this law, because this law does not apply to forest areas. [[Trees! Trees!]] We've got about 30% of the country in the woods. Annually, every year, the State Forests plant millions of trees. Therefore, I see no danger here. Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like to say...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u349	Yes? Well, go ahead and ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u350	There are millions of cut-out trees in the public debate, so even if it is heavily exaggerated, it cannot be said that cutting out half a million trees does not affect carbon dioxide emissions. This is an oversimplification and too free interpretation or diagnosis of the situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u351	Can you say that? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u352	I think that the removal of trees, the removal of trees, which has been carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Act in force since 1 January, will in no way affect what the senator suggests here.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u353	Mr. Senator Bonkowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u354	I would like to protest, Senator Augustine. This is a disgraceful insinuation, suggesting that by the knowledge of Minister Szyszka trees were cut out. It's one thing. And the other thing. What does it matter if his property has 100,000 or 500,000? What's this? What's that supposed to mean? What are you driving? Any envy? What do you live in? Do you live in the hut? Has anyone asked about the value of your property? What's that supposed to do? I would also like to refer to this law. I'm surprised at the ministry, because I wouldn't change that bill at all. This bill was wanted, people have been waiting for it for many years. That's not what people who haven't planted a tree in their lives say. I will say immensely that I planted 60 hectares of forest. People in the country are planting trees. If it was necessary, they would remove them, if they were disturbing them, then they would cut and plant others. And the most shouting is done by those who have not planted the tree. The most interesting thing is this. 'Cause I know county, communal Poland, and I talk to local government officials. That this has been met with great sympathy from all local governments, and especially from local governments, who are members of the Civic Platform. They liked it very much, except there's just a double narration. They wanted it, they expected it, and they're happy with it, but in public, because the party's leadership is leading this narrative, and in this way they want to open the field to another conflict and propaganda, they have to say they're against it. Inside, they're convinced it was a very good bill. And I'm a little surprised that the ministry succumbed to this false narrative, this propaganda. It was a bill that people expected, she had universal consent. And the fact that we're retreating now... [[What's the question? What's the question, Senator?]] Now we're going backwards, and that's a mistake. I would ask you to withdraw from the amendment of this law at all. [[Oh!]] [[Oh!]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u355	Will the Ministry withdraw from the amendment of this law? [[Minister...]] However, these speeches should be concluded with a question. [[Mr. Marshal, in form...]] Senator Augustine, I understand, in the form of a corrigendum of the question whether...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u356	In the form of correction or explanation. Because my name came up, I'm gonna take that opportunity. I'd like to explain. I'm asking if I'm referring to her because this case, as we know, as far as I know. It is still in the study, because the Minister himself, in a declaration which we are all obliged to make, gave such a ridiculous value to this property that this raises serious doubts. [[Exactly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u357	Good. You explained. Senator Chróścikowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u358	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, are the data known, how many trees were cut out in Poland when permissions were needed? Does the Ministry have data from last year, from previous years? How many trees could have been cut out? How many decisions have been made on a national scale? 'Cause that's the most you can say after that.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u359	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u360	I'm not going to mention a specific number now, but every year in large cities, it was hundreds, if not thousands of decisions, of which I've already said. The majority was either positive or they were all positive. Only a small part were decisions allowing partial removal, i.e. when someone appeared. For permission to cut out 12 trees, and the organ said it wasn't 12 trees, but for 10 trees it would be okay. And that kind of decision... But it wasn't much of a decision either. The principle was that any proposal that contained an adequate justification, which simply mentioned the reason for the removal of trees, was dealt with positively, of course, following appropriate administrative procedures which were unnecessary and unreasonable, if we assume that 99% the decision was positive.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u361	Thank you. I don't see any more calls. Thank you, Minister. [[Voice from the room: Answer in writing for Senator Czarnobaj...]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of the Environment Andrzej Schweda-Lewandowski: Thank you, Mr Marshal.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u362	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! This bill raises a lot of emotions. Perhaps it would have aroused less emotion if it had not been from the parliamentary presentation and from the government presentation, because then it would have been preceded by quite a broad consultation. According to the senators' statements, among others: Stanisławka, Grabowski, Szymański, there are many elements that could be discussed, and then the bill would have a different, more friendly dimension, and so is the tool, I will say it clearly, quarrels and resentment between two parties. I believe that the novel of this law, which was adopted on 16 December and entered into force on 1 January, is, as the Minister says, a return to the past, but nevertheless is better than what was agreed on on 16 December. Nevertheless, I believe that it does not solve the situation, it will not calm society, because it is still defective, because in some elements it is so-called a cover, a law that only powders certain imperfections. This applies inter alia. up to a 5-year grace period for carrying out business activities on parcels where trees have been cut out. The reason is that the Act does not fully specify or protect all forms of nature conservation, because it has been abandoned and that it requires the Minister of the Environment to issue a regulation six months after the Act enters into force and will be applied. So there's a lot of bad in this bill. I will not dwell on this, because the senators, when they ask questions, have already had many answers and we can have an opinion on it. However, I will return for a moment to the entry concerning the restoration of land for agricultural use. Ladies and gentlemen, there are still a lot of agricultural land on the outskirts of cities, especially large ones. I mean, there's a lot of land that is agricultural land, but, well, it's bushed, it's overgrown, it's like some people treat it as a forest, and some people treat it as an area of some kind of wasteland. We cut out these trees, the farmer says he's gonna run an agricultural activity, and if he's gonna run it, that means there's not gonna be any trees. After one year, he or a group of persons will request that this land be converted into another type of land. Read: e.g. construction land Because it's a category V soil or category VI soil on the outskirts of big cities, and it's going to get that approval. What's he gonna do next? If he gets this permission, he'll turn this land into another land, split it into parcels, make money... He won't pay anything to the city bank and he'll run his own business. And he's gonna be, say, using the money he's gonna make. So there are a lot of possibilities here to circumvent this law for people who do not necessarily want to sign up for it. Therefore, I think that this bill is not good, although it is better than the one from mid-December, because it protects a bit of this green. Still, I'll make two adjustments. The first is to give the local authorities, i.e. the authorities that issue the decision, the possibility of extending the time to decide. And I propose that this period be extended for inspection and preparation of a protocol from 2 weeks to a month. I tabled this amendment at the committee meeting. She hasn't been accepted, but I'm addressing her to the High House. I don't know, maybe he'll get that acceptance here. The second amendment aims, however, to leave this wide range of forms of nature conservation in this law. If the decision-making officer has a bill to protect it, he'll protect it. If it is not written there, he may not even know what to reach for to apply this other law. I'm speaking on behalf of the Civic Platform right now. If at least these two amendments are accepted, we will not reject this law. If we don't, we'll have a negative position. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u363	Thank you, Senator. [[And I'm about to make these adjustments.]] I'll ask for these corrections. And please take the floor of Senator Piotr Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u364	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment to the Nature Conservation Act is a parliamentary project, as has already been mentioned here. The previous amendment was adopted in the Column Hall on December 16th, and we remember this event. And there were opened a very wide door to the unpunished cutting out of trees. A lot of owners did. It took advantage of this opportunity and made a good deal, and the municipalities lost money from penalties and fees. And it's all still going on. This amendment is a prosthesis to show that something is changing, but it will not have any effect. This project doesn't change anything. I think he's incompetent and he's not going to stop it. What does this change mean? The fact that you will have to report to the municipality that you want to cut out a tree, but not in all cases. 'Cause when do I have to report it? At that time, when at an altitude of 130 cm the circumference of the trunk will be 100 cm. I'm 90 cm in my belt, so imagine what it's like at least 100 cm. If a tree is more inches away from me, it means you're gonna have to report a clipping, and if you don't, you won't have to. I'm talking about some species of trees: poplars, clones, willows. Other trees need to be reported when they are above 50 cm. And you should add to the application the one, as the senator's colleague said here, a drawing or a map. That's what it says. That's all I'm saying. Now let's remember what it was like before. When someone reported the cut-off, the committee came in and made a decision: either she agreed to the cut-off or she didn't. Like the Minister said, not all trees could be cut out. Now there may be a silent permission to cut, because these two weeks are... You don't know. Well, two weeks after the inspection, there's a silent consent and you can cut out these trees. And now it turns out that up to 5 years poor self-government This is an additional task. It's supposed to control all of this, keep records, and, if necessary, go and see if there's a tree in the right place where someone wants to put the building for business. One of the senators asked if one room would only take... Well, you gotta be careful. Maybe it was that tree in the other part of the house, and that room isn't gonna cover it. And we're gonna discuss it when it embraces it and when it doesn't. If the protocol is drawn up immediately, it is a whole different matter, but if the decision is withdrawn in four years' time, it will be withdrawn in the sense that you have to pay for cutting out this tree. It's gonna be hard to prove... I know Poles, and I know how it is, how difficult it will be to document that it was this tree and this thickness, and to pay for it. In my opinion, this is unrealistic and impossible to do. I just gave an example of how it works, how it works, how it can be done: a natural person bought a plot, cut out trees, didn't have to do anything, built a gas station, everything is done according to the law, with the regulations in force today. You think this law is good, because if I'm a natural person, I have the right to do everything on my property, the air on my property is mine, the tree is mine, so I can do everything I think I can do. So far, the matter has been clear: we had to report it. As the Minister said, ninety-two percent of the reporters were granted permission. I myself reported two trees to be cut out a few years ago, there was no problem. But it was under some kind of control. At the moment there is no control, the removal of trees takes place on a large scale. The municipality has been burdened with these checks, with this additional check, with an additional task. That's how it always happens, that when something is done, it's worth pointing it to the commune, let them do it, and then let them complain that the commune didn't see to it. 'Cause when someone put that map together, maybe it was necessary to describe in detail that the tree was 150 m from that tree, from the ditch, from something, and it wasn't done in the commune. Yeah, no one's gonna enforce that. Therefore, in my opinion, the bill is... Unfortunately, the one that was passed on December 16 is a very bad bill. This amendment doesn't work. Therefore, I am applying for the rejection of this law. This is the farthest conclusion. Because the senator has rightly tabled amendments, so if you do not reject the bill, the next proposal will include the amendments that the senator has tabled. But it's just a certain prosthetic and nothing more. You'd have to go back to that state that was earlier and start talking. This should not be a parliamentary project, because this ministry, Minister, is responsible for ensuring that such parliamentary projects are lobbying for Members who are taking place. There has been no consultation because we see the consequences of this and that there are consultations. Many wise remarks were made today in questions. The Minister even replied himself... That was very interesting. Only so what, now that the bill is here, the bill without consultation, the message, we know what it looks like. I know some people are gonna be happy about it because they made a lot of money. We'll hear about how much it would cost if it were a legal person. All she had to do was sell the lot to a natural person, and this one cut everything out. Everyone's in a hurry, January, February was such a time that we had to hurry, because we don't know if the Sejm and Senate will change the bill. Now it's breeding season, so there's some restrictions on tree clippings. But the regulation that the Minister was talking about will be in six months, that's about the time for the regulation to be issued. In general, this regulation will only concern the protection of parts of certain trees. Therefore, the ongoing activity will continue if we do not, of course, make any reasonable changes. But this amendment doesn't change anything, and that's why I'm applying to reject it, Mr. Marshal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u365	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Andrzej Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u366	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Maybe I won't even go straight. to the law itself, to its regulations, but I will make some comments about this law and this situation. My opinion on this law is that this law, which was adopted in December last year, was a good law and very expected by society, by ordinary inhabitants who had trees on their land, there they grew. I'm the senator. from the largest district in Poland, which has 650 000 voters None of you have so many voters. and which includes 5 powiats. I've driven around and I'm still driving around these areas along and across. # And I live in the mountains # And I don't see a clipping anywhere, the kind of situation that's being shown on television that's being broadcast. People act normal. I've got a lot of trees on my property, especially birch trees, I like pine trees. Sometimes I'm gonna cut four out of five birches to have a smoker in the oven, but they're gonna grow 10 and 15 more young trees that are gonna grow up in time and they're gonna be... Observing the district of Suski, Wadowicki, and Thinking, one can say that there are no barbaric clippings, it is not as shown on TV. I don't know how, I don't know how much... I don't know if it's really where the clippings were... Wasn't it like it was somebody privately cut out, or wasn't it, for example. forests that are subject to a completely different law, or shouldn't they be hunted... I don't know the details, because, as I say, between what TV shows and what happens in reality, in life, sometimes there's a 180o span. Ladies and gentlemen, I have two interesting cases from my community. Notabene son, who is the master... And he made the decision he had to make because the police came... The tree was cut, the neighbor reported it to the police, the police prepared it and delivered it. And on the basis of that, they counted... The decision is still dated 24 October last year, and the cut was probably last April. And what did this man do? Ladies and gentlemen, he cut an alder with a diameter of 32 cm. And there's nothing left for the uncle but to count... Because the police are here. They brought everything. And, ladies and gentlemen, this man has been punished. In the amount of PLN 7 000 121 43 for cutting the tree on its plot, alders with a diameter of 32 cm. Well, that's how it worked. [[But he could have applied for a cut-off and for free... and not paid.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it's one or the other, the one who has the time, it's walking, but a common resident... Ladies and gentlemen, my opinion is that this bill was good. But, ladies and gentlemen, three years ago, there was a case that's been going on so far, because it's still in court, or maybe it's over... Namely, one of the high-ranking masters stole 5 cups of decent beech, authentic, valuable wood. Court after a fairly long-standing case A little bit, well... to some extent they canceled it, he made him pay a thousand zlotys. It's a simple bill, ladies and gentlemen: in this country, it's more worth stealing a decent tree, converting it, earning money on it than cutting a piece of a completely worthless tree, just for firewood, and it's your tree, on your share. Well, gentlemen, where are we? How do you look at all of this? And those who were screaming... Finally, such a brief thought for thought. 'Cause soon, as I've heard, there's gonna be laws a little bit better about respect for the dog, the pet, everything, everything... So much noise, so much stuff... because the trees have been cut. And many of those who stood behind these protests shouted out loud: give us the right to abortion, to kill unborn children! Like this country... How to look at it all and how to understand it, if we defend the tree like that, we defend the animal, and when it comes to killing an unborn child, it's quiet, calm, it's gone into the can, into the bucket... Quiet. And that's how we defend trees, not even... bushes, not trees, because bushes are sometimes... How do you see it all, how do you understand it? I personally, by the way, will vote against all of this when it comes to this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u367	Thank you, Senator. I would like the floor of Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u368	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A very large debate in the media has caused something that I feel is not true. It's not true that there were such mass clippings. Moreover, the Minister mentioned here possible figures, giving these statistics, and from all this it appears that earlier trees were cut as well as now. I do not believe that we, citizens of the Republic of Poland, can tell about my fellow farmers We behave irrationally that we have in mind how to cut out everything, how to destroy green. Who cares about this green? Well, let's look at the territory of Poland. How many farming areas are there? How many green areas are there? How many forests are there? Well, the biggest cluster of greenery is the woods. And if we look at the greens, we'll see that we don't have such a big area compared to the woods. So no one cuts the woods, no one destroys the great green property we own, but everything is done as planned. Nobody clings to the Forest Act, nobody says it's bad management. We even give examples that forests in Poland are the best protected forests throughout Europe. So I would not raise such a big topic here that we destroyed many greens in Poland. After all, farmers have repeatedly asked them to give them a chance to restore their land to agricultural use. Often, many of these farmers, through the bad policies of this country, the government, the European Union, have not grown these land and they have grown. Did anyone get hurt when these tiny little trees grew? It didn't bother anyone, and even everyone was happy to see a nice landscape. But when that farmer took over the farm or sold it to the other farm and this farmer wants to restore the state... I would ask the Minister here a question, which probably would be answered by those who can count: how much carbon dioxide is consumed, for example. A hectare of corn, and how many trees stand there? Are we, as farmers, not giving this land a greater chance in relation to problems with the so-called agricultural use? warming up the climate, all those things you talk about? It is us farmers who give this green mass that actually consumes carbon dioxide. And if this farmer isn't allowed to do that right now, and, as I say, he needs to be made more difficult... I'm the one asking if those who asked to give these farmers the opportunity to restore this land... We're the ones telling them we're not? Again, we say they need to be paid. It's not as easy as you think to get those clippings permissions. It's not what everyone says. Because some municipalities take it lightly, some do not, some officials take it very strictly and refuse to allow tree clippings. It's different. It depends on the clerk or how he's gonna justify it, whether he can describe it to get permission. I've dealt with this before in practice in the municipality, and I know what it looks like. I saw how people were able to circumvent the laws that were in force to settle the case, and the municipality had to issue a permit, even though she didn't think she should issue a permit. So it's doubtful that we're... And I am particularly surprised at the liberal side, which talks so much about economic freedom, about all these actions. We say that people are responsible, people make informed decisions. And even more so, the farmer or the landlord who cares, he thinks. See how many trees these landlords plant around each other. Because even if there's a big tree that needs to be removed, and they're gonna plant 10 here... In my opinion, they do more good than this one tree that's already dying. It's a rational decision that he's changing trees because he's planting trees. You, the media, have caused such an avalanche that those who feared that there would be a change of decision now have cut down these trees. Because they were afraid that... because everyone was screaming that we were gonna change our mind. So what was the one and the other supposed to do? He went and cut. But he didn't cut the size, he did what he had planned as part of the development of his land, or maybe even more so than he had been wooded so far. And I think that right now we're doing harm, making life difficult again, making it possible for a landlord or a farmer to walk, to do bureaucracy, to write, to give officials jobs, to recount and to drive in the field. The cost is amazing... It's all worthless, in my opinion, because conscious citizen of the Republic of Poland, whether it's a landlord or a farmer, never works to the detriment of... And you are driving from Lublin to Warsaw right now... Ladies and gentlemen, almost a 100-kilometer section will finally be done between Lublin and Warsaw, to be exact, the most difficult section that we find difficult to drive. from over there. This is the belt. approx. 100 km. Please go and see that at least 50% on this section are cut trees in a 50 m wide belt or other. When someone comes and looks, they think it's a horror that so many woods have been cut out, so many roadside trees. Because these are roadside trees, this is the planned construction of a highway or even a road of rapid traffic serving citizens; they have been granted permission. If someone looks at this landscape and takes pictures, they'll say how they destroyed it. Well, it's hard for me to drive myself now because I'm watching where I am, because I've always dreamed that I'm going between the woods, and now I'm going in a desert like this. But this building of highways or high-speed roads is meant to serve people, economic purposes. When we see a landscape like this, it hurts because suddenly it's gone. But who does it serve? It serves people. So let's stop making noises about all these problems, because many farmers respect more than those who think they're protecting animals, protecting forests that hang on trees, pretending they're defending forests, sticking to some money. I have a lot of comments about these so-called ones. environmentalists sometimes I'd call them terrorists. Who serve both. I can give you an example when Mr. Marshal and I were... We fought, Mr. Marshal, you remember. For certain measures concerning the construction of a pipeline in the Baltic Sea. Do you remember when we were at the Gdansk University of Technology and you asked? Then the question to the Greenpeace representative... [[I don't remember, but...]] But you were with me because we took part in this conference together. [[But I think it was... okay.]] The pipeline. [[But...]] The gas pipeline, I'm sorry. [[About Nord Stream. But he's going by the sea, not the woods.]] I'm sorry, but I'm giving you an example of us being there. You remember that time we spoke repeatedly at our committee meetings, why those who defend all this, the sea, do not defend it. When we showed you the dangers in the sea... You also showed it well and asked a question at the time various so-called. Green organizations: why aren't you defending this sea from this threat? I'll tell you what the answer was: because no one pays us for it. Well, if that's the way it goes, then I'm wondering what it means to pay more... That's what we're gonna do, we're gonna do terrorism? Well, to me, these are sometimes... often eco-terrorists who try to tell us... I believe that this law, which was introduced at the time, met the expectations of citizens of the Republic of Poland, whether they are landowners or farmers. I think today we're just making a change that I think is even unnecessary. This law, which was adopted in December, could work. I think that citizens would appreciate this more than the fact that we are now changing it and we are creating so many rules that they will have to do the documentation again, they will have to walk again, they will have to drive again officials, and the effect will be none of it, because it will be as it was. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u369	Thank you very much. But now it's a corrigendum. I don't remember saying that because they pay... so... you're right, there was a controversy between me and them, but I don't think anything like that... [[It was, Mr. Marshal.]] It was, wasn't it? [[It was.]] Okay, that's your responsibility. [[I'll take it.]] Thank you. Mr. Senator Bonkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u370	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal, this is your political formation practicing the Himalayas of hypocrisy. You know very well that this law, which was introduced in December, was really expected by everyone and people were happy with it. You all know it, but you made a storm in a glass of water. All you cared about was foaming to improve your ratings. Thanks to your actions you have launched, as Senator Chróścikowski, the eco-terrorists said here. These are eco-terrorists like those we remember a few years ago, from the events on Rospuda, the people who were hanging on trees, maybe I'll say brutally, like monkeys, and then it turns out that they were paid for a day of 200, 300 PLN each. After two weeks, they left the place and left behind a dump of garbage and barrels of fire. They're such environmentalists. And these are the people you've released now, so they can work. It has been stated here that before the introduction of the law 90% the decisions made were positive. So what's the storm about now? If it's 90% It was... only the officials had a job, and the lives of the farmers, those who wanted to do something. Other 10% Perhaps it was forbidden by other laws. What I'm trying to say is that this bill, now called the ridiculous lex Szysko... It was not possible to cut under the rule of this law either. It clearly says that you can cut trees on your own private property, but provided that it complies with other environmental regulations. So if there's a nest somewhere, if the trees are protected, you can't cut out those trees anyway. The mass cutting that has now taken place, you have provoked it. People who would have planned this for a few years would have been doing it so that there would have been some rotation in it that would have cut out one tree and planted the other, and now they'd have accelerated because they were afraid that there would be a return to the previous law. What I'm trying to say is that cutting out is your fault. If someone cut something actually illegal, it is possible to punish him by means of a law that entered into force in December. You can cut out a tree on a private plot, but it can't be a protected tree and it can't be an antique. There are other laws. And it clearly says that the cut-off cannot be contrary to other laws when it comes to environmental protection. If someone actually cut out a tree with premeditated intent, though he shouldn't, then he must be chased and punished. And that has nothing to do with the law that came into force in December. I will vote against this amendment. It should stay the way it is, because that's what people expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u371	Thank you very much. Against the bill, not the amendment, right? [[Yes. Against the bill.]] Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u372	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Such a massive criticism of President Kaczyński from the Senators of the PiS I have not yet heard. It was President Kaczyński who said right after his first experience with this bill that it was a mistake and that this error will be corrected. And that bad law that allowed uncontrolled logging of trees since January will be revised. Meanwhile, there are words in this room. I quote: The changes we are now making are unnecessary and that that law was good, as well as the wording in which we are accused, which is based on the devastation of the state in Poland, of launching eco-terrorists. Is the eco-terrorist Senator of the Civic Platform? I'm talking about my experiences here. Who manages to convince the president of the city in Krakow to keep one of the older stands and not to make a parking lot there? Is the eco-terrorist my wife who manages to save an action growing in front of our house because someone has invented this old, decades-old action to replace some new tree, a new plant that will grow for a long time? Are eco-terrorists members of our housing community who believe that ash growing in our backyard should be protected and that we cannot allow it to be harmed even though it has reached such a height that it covers the light from the south for everyone living in the building? Is the eco-terrorist my 90-year-old father, who's an old walnut, over nine-year-old, planted by his father, my grandfather, every year, every two years, just so that he can still live, and rents out the way we laugh, the mountaineers who perform complex operations on dead shoots so that the healthy ones can still work? I'm talking about my own experiences. I don't usually say things like that from the Senate Speaker, but today is a good time to talk about my own experiences. All the people who write, who publish pictures and send these photos, show us their own experiences of a place where there was a tree or a tree or, worse than that, there were some tree stands, and they're gone. These are individual experiences of many Poles. On the Internet forums, on Facebook you had the opportunity to watch the scale of this ecological disaster, the scale of this uncontrolled clipping of trees, which allowed for the amendment of the law that we are repairing at the moment. In our view, Mr. Marshal, the Senate, in our view of our political environment, the amendment that was made in the Seym, is not going far enough. That is why Senator Rotnicka has made good amendments not only on her behalf, but also on behalf of the whole group of senators. These are amendments beyond the game of appearances, as it were introduced by the amendment of the Sejm. The proposed set of amendments is intended to restore as much as possible from the urban planning of greenery in and out of the city. Our cities are turning into concrete deserts. Our small towns are gradually stripped of greenery. Corridors that have to go through larger towns so that we can breathe are now closed as a result of bad spatial planning. Each of us, regardless of whether it belongs to one or another political formation, is able to mention many such examples. We cannot and will not agree that Poland will turn completely into a concrete desert as a result of uncontrolled, sham surveillance of green planning and protection of greenery in our localities. Therefore, I ask you, countries of the Law and Justice, not only to reflect on what you are saying but also on how you will vote and to accept the amendments that you have tabled to Senator Rotnicka on behalf of our group of senators. Senator Florek is about to speak. We will not expect to reject a project that has flown from the Sejm. We want to fix it, we want it to be better. And we want the bill that comes out of the Senate to be signed by the President without twitching his pen or eternal pen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not turn the places we live into concrete deserts. Let's defend the trees as we defend human life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u373	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u374	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Bonkowski said 90%. applications submitted to municipalities were granted. I agree, and it was probably more than 90%. But the proposals that were made were to cut out one tree, two trees. Everyone did it on their turf if they needed it. And we're all in favour of that possibility. However, this bill adopted in the Column Hall caused that it was no longer about one tree, two trees, but about mass cutting, among others. by legal persons, so as to avoid the charges that were. And this bill is terrible, bad, bad, and she needs to be corrected. In the discussion, you were talking... about spatial planning, about what needs to be done. Sure, right. It's like there's a development plan... Only we lived in the Polish People's Republic. Please remember that. And the effects of the zoning plan... If there were construction sites out there, and we're going to turn them into green areas right now, imagine what the consequences of adopting such a plan are, how much you have to pay, how expensive all of this is. We catch up, we catch up, which have been for many, many years, because no one planned it, nobody planned it well, because nobody thought about it. You remember how environmental protection was taken care of in the Polish People's Republic. Therefore, there is much to be fixed and it needs to be fixed. However, this fatal act of December 16 unfortunately affects even more negatively, although perhaps to a lesser extent... Because we talked about forests, that in Poland we already have almost 30% of forests, that it is worth planting forests, that there are subsidies for this, other stories. We can all agree on that. And that's what's important. But the number of trees cut out in cities, built-up areas is not meaningless. And that's what you have to fight. But I listened to your discussion, to what you said. I was talking about the prosthesis that this bill is just such a prosthesis that it is difficult to enforce within the five years that a good bill should be made that would improve what happened on December 16th. Well, you take responsibility for that, and we'll talk about it, talk about it, and so on. And here's a prosthetic. And there's the question of whether there's something better about this prosthetic. Well, probably a few percent gives us a chance that eventually, if someone cuts out trees in a large area and wants to do business, they'll somehow be able to enforce these charges. Punishment may be possible, but punishment will be difficult, because if you cut out a tree, it's proving what the perimeter was at a height of 1,30 m, etc... There's a bigger problem with punishment because you have to prove it. I'm not going to develop that thought, but there's also a mistake in the bill. But, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is going in some direction. And if those amendments that Senator Rotnicka has tabled, and here are those six points, points 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10, which will limit the cut-off, which is important... If these amendments tabled had passed, I would have listened to this discussion. I'm listening to what you're saying. I'm willing to withdraw the application I made. Then I'll withdraw it and see what country you decide in this situation. Because it's not really that we're talking about what this bill was supposed to be about, which is that each of us, if we have a building site, and it's bothered by one, two trees, could cut it out. That's what we're all after, and that's how it's supposed to be. However, this bill went much further. She's out of control. And you will therefore, sooner or later, amend this law. But today, let's at least take this little step in the right direction. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u375	Thank you, Senator. [[I withdraw my motion.]] Good. You're welcome, Senator... Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u376	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The act of this law, the bad act of 16 December last year, probably looks different in different places. First of all, the cuts, I think, are about cities and cities. I'll say that in my Gdansk on the street. Slovak's whole slope was cut to shreds. These areas are probably listed as agricultural areas. Yeah, but there were trees, pine trees, etc. All it took was a few years to wait, and I'm sure it'd be bigger if we cut it out. The whole slope is cut out. And even in two places I saw clippings, in two places in the city of Gdansk, much smaller. But you can see that this bill has done its part. I also think it's different in the country. First of all, this is not seen very much, it is sometimes further away from the roads, and besides, this economy was probably better conducted and the clippings did not have to be so violent. I think so, although I don't really know. So there are various assessments and what TV showed were not images from Amazon rainforests. They were paintings from our country. And they were certainly not some elements of the computer game that we could see as reality. And I have to say, I'm completely surprised at today's discussion. I thought this discussion was just a formality, because it was a group of members of the PiS who proposed a new law. It was the President of PiS who protested immediately at the beginning of the Act of December and, as I understand it, it was the execution of these words of the President, although I believe that no such immediate executions of the words of any President are best, there should always be some reflection, some discussion. But I am completely surprised because it is an initiative to amend the law by the PiS Members, not by the government, but by the PiS Members, and the Minister for Environmental Protection states that he is against this law, and most of the PiS Senators also say that he does not agree with this law. What's going on? What's going on at the PiS? I don't ask what's going on in the Polish country because I know... [[There's democracy.]] [[Democracy!]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[There's democracy.]] [[There's no murder.]] There's democracy, there's no murder, I know. Well, I'll see you vote tomorrow when you vote... Well, we'll see, I'll see... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I'll see if you'll come to your senses.]] Decide if there's a demonstration... democracy... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please!]] ...this is democracy. And there may even be a demonstration on this occasion. That's a good sign of senators, too. I have also heard such suggestions before: the bill is bad because the Platform did not participate in the vote and the procedure for this act because it boycotted the deliberations. No, it's supposed to be in the Column Hall. Well, ladies and gentlemen, that means what? If the Platform doesn't participate, then the bill is wrong? [[Where is it?]] [[We have to be...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] That's very good logic. That's very good logic. But I'm glad I heard those voices. At the moment they don't sound, but I do remind you of that. We've heard things, too. One of the senators, well known to me, said it was the Platform's fault again, that it was the Platform that started the action against this bill and on this... [[We have to be.]] ...the filthy foam is doing its business. I'm a member of the Platform. And before that, another senator, Senator Chróścikowski, reminded me of a fact that I completely forgot, which is how I stumbled with environmentalists. And I tripped pretty hard because I thought they weren't right. In a situation where I tried to block Nord Stream with the senator, it turns out we don't have any allies here. Well, we don't have any allies. Of course, it was primarily a geopolitical issue, but there were also environmental problems. I'm not gonna remind you what it is because that's not what we're discussing. Anyway, chemical weapons storage. I also heard here from one of the senators that Rospuda... it means that on this dirty foam, just ecologically, the platform is building its position. And you reminded me of the senator about Rospud. And I'll remind the senator who was there and protesting. They protested, among others. Joanna and Andrzej Stars. Are they or were they connected to the Platform? If we make these kinds of suggestions, we really need to know the circumstances and we need to know what it's like. [[We're doing our job.]] So I'm completely confused... I'm completely confused... The management of the PiS is behind this law, the Minister of the Environment is against this law and a large proportion of the senators are against this law. So I know how I'm gonna vote, but I'm not gonna tell you... [[Joy in the Chamber]] A little atmosphere... No, no, we're not gonna bail you out. chestnuts from the oven. [[There's an opportunity to come to terms and vote.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u377	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I assure you that each of us will vote according to our beliefs. Ladies and gentlemen, senator, President Andrzej Stanisławek. You're welcome, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u378	Thank you very much, Marshal. The easiest way to talk about trees is for people who don't have trees on their own. [[Yes, sir.]] I've watched discussions and comments of all kinds. Most often, the inhabitants of these settlements, where there are no trees, were complaining about the tree being cut out because they had other plans on the private property. You know, this is a cause for more discussion, and this is not a political discussion, Mr. Marshal. This isn't about politics. This is about the country we live in. Trees are precious. I love trees, but at the same time I grow old with these trees. I've got a few birches growing faster than I'm getting old. I'm still able to clean the gutters, sweep them, but in five or ten years' time, these trees are gonna cause me a lot of trouble. Why in the case of the trees on my property, the trees I planted, should I go and ask some clerk if he'll let me cut out my trees? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Of course, the residents of the block next door who don't have trees because they don't even want to sit down will protest. Yes, these trees are indeed the habitat of birds, there are nests, there is a nest of pigeons... It's all right, but it's on my turf. I know people who spend a lot of money protecting trees. They have their own parks, and it's very embarrassing. And these people are certainly not gonna cut out any tree, no matter what the bill is. I'm sure we have to educate the public, but also educate local governments, in terms of what a tree is, what a landscape is. On the basis of this bill, it was mainly not the private owners who cut out the trees. Private owners I walked around Lublin and I watched it. They cut out trees on their own plots, there was very little. I almost didn't see them. Trees were cut everywhere on the basis of last year's permits plus road construction permits. What Senator Chróścikowski said... Yeah, it's scary. There used to be a beautiful alley between the trees in Warsaw. You might wonder why the route didn't go. The new road, and this one is not a historical alley among the trees. Yeah, that's what we might be wondering why we're destroying the old ones, why we're cutting... They say trees are the cause of accidents. Well, I guess it's the opposite. The tree will never be the cause of the accident. But of course many drivers say: if there was no tree, there would be no accident. [[And if there weren't any lakes, there wouldn't be drowns.]] Yeah, yeah. Which is more important... I don't see any problem with cutting down trees in private areas, but I see a huge problem with local government. I believe that there is a very low culture of shaping the land, shaping green areas and it is not appreciated by local governments. See how the new housing estates are built. Are there trees in the new neighborhoods? Tell me how the green ratio to buildings is interpreted. Well, you can have a lawn on the roof. Yes? The lawn on the roof and everything's fine. I'm looking at a concrete new estate and a lawn on the roof. But who sees him? Who sees that lawn over there? Who's walking around this neighborhood? There's actually nowhere to go. And these people are buying these apartments because they're cheaper, but the comfort of living in this neighborhood is none. We can cry that some trees have been cut out. But which trees? To what extent? On the basis of what bill? Not that bill we passed. I support Senator Chróścikowski and Senator Spider. Let's cry about what we should cry about, and let's not make a fuss about the bill that is the bill... There's no law that's quite good, which everyone realizes is the same as the opposition. None of our laws. Or your previous laws, or the ones that we are now. It's never gonna be fully sealed. People will always find a lawyer if they're not ordinary people. Some kind of loophole. And on the basis of this one gap, We're supposed to change the entire bill? I must tell you that, once again, I have reservations about the parliamentary laws. I ignore the fact that we will probably have to ask that the applicants be in the Chamber and have the right to speak because there is no one to discuss with. The Minister is not, I would say, our opponent or legislative ally. So he can defend a bill that he doesn't actually defend... Where are the Members? Well, they have no right to speak. And here's your motion for a marshal. I don't know if I can bring it in this form. In order to change the Rules of Procedure of the Senate so that, in the case of the parliamentary law, the Members of the Tribunal must be in the Chamber, they have the right to speak and to answer our questions. [[Although the rapporteur...]] If it's not the rapporteur, it's someone on the committee. It's about us having someone to discuss with. What am I gonna do? I'm not gonna tell you either. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u379	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the Senators of Komarnicki and Szymański have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Robert Mamytkow and Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? No. As legislative proposals have been tabled, I ask the Environment Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014-2020. The text of the bill is... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Mr. Senator Mammoth and Mr. Senator... Quiet, please. [[I'm sorry.]] The text of the Act is contained in print No 492, and the report of the Commission In print No 492 A. I would ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Przemysław Błaszczyk, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u380	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development at its meeting yesterday considered a law amending the Law on the Promotion of Rural Development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme 2014 The change, despite the title of the bill, which is quite long, is very short. It concerns the central unit of the National Rural Network. This amendment aims to improve the financing system of this unit and to allow consolidation of the tasks of the Minister of Agriculture. At the committee meeting, the bill was not controversial, there was no extensive discussion, so my report will also be brief. It will limit itself to the fact that, on behalf of the committee, I will request that this law be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u381	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Today we have Minister Ryszard Zarudzki, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: Yes, sir.]] You're welcome, Minister. Come in, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u382	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! It'll be short. It is a matter of reference and a few information concerning the National Rural Network Act, will cover the costs of own funds and will then apply for a refund not to the Ministry, but directly to the restructuring agencies. This is ordering the functioning of the public finance sector. Thank you very much for adopting the law without any amendments and for the smooth procedure. It's tidying things up. Thank you very much. That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u383	Thank you very much, Minister. Please stay, as the senators can now report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to the representative of the government related to this item on the agenda. Who among you senators would like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudz: Thank you kindly.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the act on combating doping in sport. The text of the Act is contained in print No 496 and the report of the Commission In print No 496 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Kazimierz Wind, to submit a report to the committee. I don't see your senator. I'm declaring a two-minute break. We're waiting for the Senator rapporteur. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 26 to 18 minutes 28]] I'm reopening the session. I ask you, Professor, to report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u384	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I am here as the deputy rapporteur, Senator Robert Gawl, who has a previously agreed meeting with the Japanese Ambassador today. As chairman of the committee, I'm filling in for the senator. The Committee on Science, Education and Sports has examined the law on combating doping in sport Senator's printing No 496. This is a completely new law that will replace, if I remember correctly, the previous chapter 9 of the Sports Act. Of course, one can wonder why a new law is being created and not chapter 9 is being expanded. Because the scope of the fight against doping is so large that it is a material similar to the existing Sports Act. Besides, the government, Ministry, the Minister wants to stress the importance of combating doping in Poland. That is why a new law is being introduced. The meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport began with the honour of giving my congratulations to Minister Bubble, who became a representative of the whole of Europe on the Executive Committee of the World Anti-Doping Agency. The head of Polish sport will represent 47 member states of the Council of Europe. Minister Witold Bianka's candidacy was unanimously supported by all states represented on the committee. It is worth noting here that no Pole has ever been chosen for a position of this importance in the world's anti-doping structures. I repeat what I had the opportunity to give yesterday in the presence of the Minister, because this has an extremely important connection to this bill. It must be said that both this law and all the activities of the government, the Minister and the Ministry to date, are aimed at strengthening the fight against doping, professionalising activities in this area, including education and education. Surely this is a definite saying of not legalizing doping. Of course, it's not all over the world. At the committee meeting, we discussed the fact that there are countries in which sports success is sometimes so valued by the state authorities that it is as if we are turning a blind eye to doping or not fighting it at a sufficient level. The attitude of the Polish authorities in this area is very clear, irreconcilable. Of course, legal regulations follow this will. At the committee meeting we discussed the world situation and the conclusion was that Poland could be a model for combating doping. In any case, a material proof of this conclusion is precisely the election of the Minister to the Executive Committee of the World Anti-Doping Agency. I don't want to bring up concrete examples from recent months, but actually in situations where there were doubts. Or even evidence, the Minister's attitude was very, very clear. As it was said at the committee meeting, it is worth throwing cheaters out of sport. It is also worth asking yourself a few questions. Does the sport in which doping is present make sense? Are the results achieved, man's work or other factors? Who cares about legalizing doping? These were the questions we were asking ourselves, broadening the circle of reflection on this law. I may quickly quote a passage from the bill, because what the law considers to be doping is important, as it states. This is defined as the presence of a prohibited substance, its metabolites or markers in a physiological sample of a player; the use or attempted use by a player of a prohibited substance or a prohibited method; the refusal of consent to take a physiological sample, the failure to make such a claim without valid justification or otherwise to take a physiological sample; the failure to provide the required information on the place of residence of the player for the purpose of anti-doping control; the manipulation or attempted manipulation of any part of an anti-doping control; the possession of a prohibited substance or instrument enabling the use of a prohibited method; the placing on the market or attempted placing on the market of a prohibited substance or instruments enabling the use of a prohibited method; the giving or attempting to give to a player during a competition of a prohibited substance or a method of prohibition or of giving or attempting to give to a player any part of an anti-doping control; the possession of a prohibited substance or instrument enabling the use of a prohibited method; the assistance, instigation or any other kind of informed co-operation relating to the conduct of a sport, in which he or his or her capacity of sports, in the exercise of formal capacity of formal conduct, in the exercise of professional conduct, in which he is defined in the performance of the performance of conduct, the definition; It is also worth to say that this law will be established by the Polish Anti-Doping Agency. It will be a state-owned legal person based in Warsaw, which will be supervised by the Minister responsible for physical culture. The Agency's tasks will be to define the rules and conduct of anti-doping checks; to lay down disciplinary rules on doping in sport; to plan and conduct anti-doping controls during and outside the competition; to train and improve the qualifications of the agency's anti-doping controllers; to grant consent to the use of a given prohibited substance or method prohibited by the player; to develop, implement and support education, information and training programmes in the fight against doping in sport; to evaluate draft assumptions, draft laws, and draft laws to combat doping in sport; to cooperate with foreign actors competent in the fight against doping in sport; to cooperate with public administrations and research institutes and other bodies responsible for research supporting the fight against doping in sport. According to this law, the player will be obliged to undergo an anti-doping control carried out by the agency during and outside the competitions. In conclusion, I will say that the Senate legislature has tabled four amendments, but they do not change the substance of the case. We have already clarified these issues. The time of entry into force of this law is so important that there are two institutions here. A new entity is created, which is why every day is important. Taking all this into account, the Committee on Science, Education and Sport has adopted a proposal to adopt a law without amendment. No amendments were tabled during the committee meeting and six senators voted in favour of the proposal to adopt it without amendments, no one opposed it, no one abstained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u385	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Sport and Tourism has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Witold Bańka, Minister of Sport and Tourism is with us. Minister, we join you in the congratulations that Professor Kazimierz Wind has given you. I have a question: do you wish to speak? [[Minister of Sport and Tourism Witold Bubble: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u386	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! At the very beginning, I would like to thank you very much, as was the case in the Sejm, for congratulations and above all for the positive attitude towards the government's draft law on combating doping in sport. This support comes from all political forces present in the Polish Parliament. This is a very expected project in the sports environment, which is a response to the demand of the sports environment, as well as global trends in the field of effective fight against doping Not only in our country, but in the whole world. And it can be said with all determination that it strengthens the image of Poland as a country that has a determined policy for honesty in such an extremely important sphere of public life as sport. We can speak boldly about joining the world avant-garde countries that set trends in the fight against doping. I'd just like a little bit, like this. you have made Professor, Senator, to remind you of the fundamental assumptions of this project, which is mainly the establishment of the Polish Anti-Doping Agency (POLADA) with a highly specialised investigative unit. This is a solution based on the tools that operate in the British or American anti-doping agency, significantly extending the scope of effective fight against doping. The Act provides for close cooperation with services such as the Police and Customs Service, and allows the prosecution of the most dangerous substances prohibited by the relevant doping services in the territory of our country. The fine, the limitation of liberty or imprisonment until the age of 3 will be punishable by the administration of cheering measures to minors, the administration of cheering measures to players without their knowledge, and the trafficking of such measures. So today, the punishment for disqualified doping is threatened not only by the player who uses doping, but also by the person who administers the doping to him. This is also an extension of these possibilities and a solution to global trends. So the fight against doping is going to be on a wider scale than ever before. There will be an independent disciplinary panel in the agency, which will rule on penalties. These are solutions that represent a huge step just towards building a strong system and above all a reliable anti-doping system in Poland, recognizable all over the world. The project was also notified to the European Commission. No comments or detailed opinions were submitted during the notification period to the project. Finally, I would like to thank both Chambers for their really excellent work, including the Seym and Senate committees, on this project. We can safely say that we are proud of this solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u387	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Czesław Ryszka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u388	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have this question: in the light of this law, e.g. Doping or.doping, which uses runners in Norway supposedly for these ailments... If it were with us, would it be possible to use such medications to support the body? You know what's going on with the Norwegian runners.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u389	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u390	This is an extremely difficult problem, Mr. Senator, because there is such a thing as disabling therapy, so-called. TUE. Players who are ill, who are injured or have any defect in the body have the possibility of obtaining consent, medical procedures are strictly defined by the World Anti-Doping Agency on, colloquially speaking, the use of this particular drug. So if there's an injury, a disease, and a player is asking for permission to use the drug, that's the deal. If there is no other medical treatment for injury or disease, you may get it. So there are cases in sports. Also in the Polish sport there are cases of players and players who obtained such an exclusion from therapy and had the opportunity to use medicines which are on the list of prohibited substances. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u391	Are there any more questions? Senator Krzysztof Elephant. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u392	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I found out that in the 2017 budget, the Commission for Combating Doping in Sport has about PLN 2 million 800 thousand. Will there be any increased resources in the Ministry for this purpose in connection with the entry into force of the Act?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u393	We're also planning a cyclical increase in resources... i.e. additional. Besides, there's no... But we're also planning an additional one. It's like inside this budget that we have an increase in funding to fight doping. It should also be mentioned that the Polish Anti-Doping Agency will have the status of a state legal person after years. Thus, it will be able to obtain external funds, from UNESCO funds, from WADA funds, i.e. the World Anti-Doping Agency, as well as EU funds, as well as to provide services to the federations organizing sports events in Poland. There's no such thing today. We therefore assume in advance that the budget will increase over the coming years, in addition to this ministerial budget, as the Agency will have additional opportunities to raise external resources thanks to its legal status. But it is also important to mention that the establishment of the Polish Anti-Doping Agency, POLADA, eliminates a certain legal duality which is currently functioning and which is not fully readable, i.e. the committee for combating doping and the office serving this committee. Now we have one institution in place of two.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u394	Thank you very much. You're still Senator Czesław Ryszka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u395	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, what will your work be in connection with your presence on this European Anti-Doping Council?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u396	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u397	As a representative of the Council of Europe on the Executive Committee of the World Anti-Doping Agency... It can be said that we will be the voice of Europe in the broad fight against doping. The Executive Committee of the World Anti-Doping Agency de facto conducts WADA policy, i.e. the World Anti-Doping Agency, even to such extent as the issue of establishing a list of prohibited substances These arrangements must be respected by all athletes - whether the issue of accreditation for anti-doping laboratories or the receipt of such accreditation. There is also a discussion within the Executive Committee on the direction of the fight against doping in the world. I'm not. In the media space, we have repeated this many times. That we are trying as Poland for the organization in Katowice in 2019 of the Great Congress of the World Anti-Doping Agency. This is an event that takes place once every 6 years, and there are de facto new rules, set new directions for all global sport in the fight against doping. Our rivals are Geneva and the capital of Oman, Maskat. We believe deeply, we deeply hope that we have a very good chance. It would be a great event for Polish sport, for Poland, for Silesia, for Katowice, if we could bring such a congress. Perhaps I will give you a heads-up at the WADA meeting in Montreal on 18 May, the Board of the World Anti-Doping Agency in Montreal. We will be present with the president of Katowice and present Katowice's candidacy.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u398	Thank you. Senator Ryszka wants to ask. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u399	I have one more question. What is the authority of punishing players for doping? Is this the institution you're in?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u400	The World Anti-Doping Agency doesn't make that kind of decision. Decisions on disqualifications belong to national anti-doping agencies, as well as to the federations.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u401	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Minister of Sport and Tourism Witold Bubble: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Educational Information System and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 499 and the report of the Commission In print No 499 A. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Kazimierz Wiatra, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u402	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Tonight, there's probably gonna be a world record... In the case of Senator Margaret Kopiczko, who was to be the rapporteur, there was a need to leave suddenly, so that I am replacing the senator. With due diligence, I'll try to do it. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Commission for Science, Education and Sports and the Commission for the Territorial Government and State Administration have examined the law on amending the Act on the Educational Information System and certain other laws, Senate printing No 499. I would like to point out that the Act on the Information System of the Senate has already amended several times. I think, although I didn't count on it to be at least a fourth shift. It should also be noted that during the adoption of the primary law there were many doubts, there were protests, and the point was that, so to speak, one computer of the Ministry of National Education was to collect data, personalized data, personal data of pupils, including describing various physical and psychophysical deficits of pupils. We were very happy when the data we collected had been cut down a while ago. The current amendment of this law is a further reduction of this data and I must say that this is a step even more radical than previous restrictions. It is worth simply saying that instead of personalized data, aggregated data are collected concerning e.g. psychological assistance, family education, material assistance, student addresses when attending special schools, textbooks. So that this is a very large area of data, they in the law are called field data. It won't be anymore, it'll just be aggregate data. This bill is changing that. In addition, two steps in entering data are abolished. So far, this has been done in the manner specified in the Act as sequential input of data, i.e. PESEL numbers were entered first, students' accounts were created and only after checking, after establishing these accounts was the second stage when detailed, field or what to call them. Now in mode, so to speak, on-line, in one-time access to the base, which will be located in the Ministry of National Education, through a browser... We asked and as far as all popular browsers are concerned, with relevant active plugins, it will be possible to enter these data. The computer at the Education Information Centre has appropriate certificates to ensure that this central database can be stored safely there. By the way, everyone, so to speak, to consider this bill, these questions about safety have been raised. We have been informed that the relevant ISO certificate as well as the penetration tests carried out by the Internal Security Agency are ensured. Of course, it was said at the committee's meeting that the security of information systems requires constant concern, because in operating systems or applications, some shortcomings are detected every day, so-called. holes, and hackers immediately use these holes for automatic attacks on all computers of the world. And to those that aren't properly secured, well, there's a break-in. So every day must be about taking care of it. It's better to turn off the computer than leave it... He is defenseless simply, it is a massive attack... those people or institutions that make such attacks, there are thousands in the world, but we know that a global village surrounded by webs of internet is an easy bite. It must also be said that many other simplifications have been introduced by this law, e.g. simplification of authorisations. The bill directly specifies who has access. I may no longer read it, it is all written in the relevant articles of this law. I would just like to say that no amendments were tabled at the committee meeting. The Legislator of the Senate Legislative Office did not raise any objections of a legislative nature. Therefore, the only proposal that was voted on was the proposal to adopt this law without amendment. This proposal was supported by 11 senators, no one opposed, 1 Senator abstained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u403	Thank you very much, Professor. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. Thank you, Professor. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for National Education has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Today we have Minister Marzenna Drab, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzenna Drab: Yes.]] Please, Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u404	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Senators! I would like to speak briefly because everything that is most important, you have presented the senator very well in your report. Indeed, these changes are the changes expected by all users of the so-called SIO, the educational information system. Let me say this: so far, the introduction of such important and sensitive data has taken place in one position, in one subject, like a school. And that was so-called. Narrow throat. We are introducing changes in the way that these operations can be carried out in many positions at the same time and the data will be collected in a single common database, the administrator of which will be the Minister of National Education. This will make it possible to do It's faster. This will also make it impossible to lose databases in many thousands of places where these data have been introduced so far. To illustrate what the problem was, I would like to quote that last year the Ministry of National Education received about 4.5 thousand requests for the recovery of databases. So it was very problematic for both the Minister of National Education and those who introduced the data. So that, as I said before, this is an expected change, a change that is the way out for everyone. Mr Senator mentioned here that we are talking about such a collection of sensitive data, which must indeed be under constant control and supervision. And I would also like to confirm that the information and education centre has a database security certificate, ISO 27001 certificate. Indeed, cooperation with the Internal Security Agency is foreseen on a permanent basis. So that we are thinking very much about taking care of this database, that this database should actually contain only the necessary data, which should serve the Minister of National Education to conduct an effective education policy. I think these are some of the most important things we'd like to draw attention to. And I would very much like to thank you for your cooperation, for your joint action, also within the committee, for understanding, guidance, and for paying attention to what should be our great concern. So that I thank all the senators here who worked with us very warmly. And I think that's it for now. If there were any questions, I'd be your answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u405	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No... Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u406	Yes, Mrs. Marshal, but there is a person. Minister, I have a question about whether these changes, quite fundamental in terms of IT issues, will not argue with education reform. Because two changes will be made at the same time: a large organisational educational reform and a change resulting from the bill discussed here. And education reform will also have an impact on the educational information system. Will you be all right? It is about timing and the complexity of two overlapping reforms.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u407	Thank you very much. Please, Minister, answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u408	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! The entry into force of the SIO Act is planned for 24 July. And this will apply to the access part of the school network only. So that local governments simply have more time to calmly enter the data that result from the education reform. And in September it will be possible to enter data on pupils and teachers. So we don't do all this in September, just as data has been entered so far. We do this in advance so that we really have peace of mind when entering important data into the SIO and so that we can simply start the school year with peace.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u409	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? No. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzenna Drab: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'm about to announce a recess by 9:00 a.m. tomorrow, and now I'm asking Senator Secretary to present the announcements.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u410	Communication No 1: immediately following the announcement of a break in the Senate session in room 176, a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions will be held on the election of a candidate as chairman of the committee. Communication No 2: The Environment Committee meeting on the examination of proposals submitted during the plenary debate to the Act amending the Nature Conservation Act will be held tomorrow, i.e. April 27th, 8.15 p.m. in room 176. Communication No 3: the meeting of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee will take place on 27 April 2017, at 8.30 a.m., in room 307. The agenda will be as follows. First point: preparation of the draft resolution of the Senate on the appointment of the Chair of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. Second point: an opinion on the draft order of the Senate Marshal on the appointment of the Senate Statute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-26-senat-40-1.u411	Thank you very much. We're adjourning tonight. I'm declaring a recess until 9:00 tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 19 minutes 01]]
