ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u1	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - to the Special Services - immediately after the end of the votes, about an hour. 9.05, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 9, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 9, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 9, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 9.15, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 9.15, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development - h.m. 9.30 a.m., - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 9.30 a.m., - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 10, - Public Finance - hour. 10, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 11, - Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies together with the Committee on Education, Science and Youth - hour 11.15, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 12, - Maritime Economy and Inland Shipping together with the National Defence Commission - at 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - to State Control, together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, at 3 p.m. 13, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 13, - Foreign Affairs - hour 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 14, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 14, - Infrastructure - hour 15, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 3.30 p.m., - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 16, - Economy and Development - h.m. 16, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 17, - Public Finance - hour. 17, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 5:30 p.m., - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 6:30. In addition, I would like to inform you that the following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Promotion of the Slag - hour. 10, - Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team - hour 10, - Parliamentary Group for: explanations of irregularities in cooperative savings and credit banks and the National Cooperative Savings and Credit Fund - hours. 10, - Parliamentary Group for: Solutions to Drug Addiction Problems - hour 11.30, - Dolnośląskie Parliamentary Team - h.m. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Follow-up to Human and Citizens' Rights, exit meeting - at 3 p.m. 12.30, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Nuclear energy - hour 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Supporting Youth Councils in the Units of the Territorial Self-Government - hour. 18, - Parliamentary Team of Friends of Polish Airmen - h.m. 18, - Parliamentary Team of Members and Sympathists of the Light-Life Movement, Catholic Action and the Association of Catholic Families - hour. 6:30 p.m., - Parliamentary Group for: Digitalization of Hospitals and Medical Centres - hour 19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u2	Thank you, sir. The competent committees have submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Law on the system of military courts. It's a 1942 print. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. High Seym! I would like to inform you that we are currently being heard by representatives of Christian communities from Ecuador and Mexico. Welcome. [[Applause]] The competent committees have submitted a report on the Government's draft law on the ratification of the Political Dialogue and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Cuba, of the other part, drawn up in Brussels on 12 December 2016. It's a 1939 print. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item he listened to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on Press Law. It's a 1938 print. Therefore, following the acceptance of the Seniors Convention, I decided to complete the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm agree that we should hold a discussion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I don't hear any objections. The Council of Ministers has submitted draft laws: - amending certain laws in order to improve the legal environment of innovative activities, contained in print No 1934, - on the amendment of the budget law for 2017, contained in print No 1946, - amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Act for 2017, contained in print No 1944, - the specific arrangements for implementing the 2018 budget law, as contained in print No 1945. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, objections were raised to the completion of the agenda for the first reading of these projects. These are, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on I will put these items to the vote in turn to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 The adoption of these proposals to complete the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of Article in the case of draft print laws 1944, 1945 and 1946. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. At the moment, I would like to inform you that you have come forward with formal proposals. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u3	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 I ask your marshal to request a recess, to convene the Senior Convention. [[Joy in the Chamber]] and explain why yesterday's proposal by the Modern Club on the information of the Minister of the Special Services Coordinator and the secrecy of the deliberations in this item has not been considered. This case shouldn't wait. The public is appalled by the press that Mrs. Przyłębska presenting herself as President Constitutional Court [[Applause]] And her deputy was connected to the Secret Service. Law and Justice wants to make Poland a banana republic, where even in the Constitutional Court it is possible to rule on its own case. I'll tell you one thing: there's no agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u4	Thank you. I'm gonna call the Senior Convention on this, and I'm gonna call a break first. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] Mr Piotr Misilo, the Modern Club, has the floor. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] [[Chairman.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u5	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! [[Rysiek, listen now.]] On the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of [[Debates.]] ...at the 50th session of the Sejm at the point: First reading of the government bill amending the Penal Code Act and the presentation of the High House by the Minister of Justice - the Attorney General, whom I see - good morning, Minister - Mr Zbigniew Ziobra... [[He wants to go to PiS.]] ...explains why the prosecution resumes its investigation of journalists who were authors of publications on SKOKs in 2013 and why serious actions are not being carried out to fully explain the biggest financial scandal in Poland. [[How? There's the Amber Gold commission.]] Let me remind you, Marshal, the High House that we have a request for a committee of inquiry to be set up. I urge you, Madam Prime Minister, to influence Members of the Law and Justice and your marshal on the appointment of this committee, so that the High Sejm and all Poles can finally see how the greatest scandal in the history of the Third Republic has arisen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Rysiek, feel threatened.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u6	There you go. I inform you that I will also announce a recess in this matter and call the Convention. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u7	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I join you in the request for a break so that during the Seniors' Convention you can also ask for an extension of the agenda to explain to the Minister of Justice - the Attorney General, Minister of Ziobra, in order to explain to the Sejm whether we are dealing with a series of unfortunate events in recent weeks, or whether we are also dealing with a new phenomenon that can undoubtedly be called judicial corruption. The situation in Suwałki District Court requires immediate clarification. [[Dismissed.]] Is it a coincidence that one day Deputy Minister Ziobry, Deputy Minister Piebiak, meets with the judge of Suwałki, who then issues a ruling which is in line with the application made by the police officers and what the Party of Law and Justice says, and then after a dozen days becomes President of the District Court on the basis of the rules which authorise Minister Ziobra to decide on the role of President? Is it a coincidence that the presidents of the district court in which the case against Zbigniew Ziobrze is being released? Are the judges in Szczecin who issue judgments in accordance with the laws that do not like Minister Zbigniew Ziobra at random? These cases in recent weeks are far too much and Minister Ziobro should provide immediate explanations at this meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u8	Mr President, even if I wanted to, I cannot qualify your vote as a formal proposal because you have spoken on a case that is not on the agenda... [[Request for a Convention meeting.]] ...and is not the subject of a meeting of the Sejm. So that I draw your attention, do not force me to interrupt the speeches of your Members if they are irregular. Mrs Isabel Leszczyn, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u9	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The government wants us to talk at today's meeting about Poland's finances, this year's and next year's, therefore on the basis of art. 184 I would like to ask for a break, during which the Prime Minister and the authorities of the Law and Justice Club will clarify a point that is extremely shocking. Two days ago, MEPs from the European Parliament spoke against Polish farmers [[Applause]] and against the interests of Poland. This is a disgraceful situation. [[I'm sure you're defending the interests of Poland.]] The resolution on the future financial perspective was voted on. In this resolution, Members of the Civic Platform introduced the provision that the European Parliament does not agree to cuts in agriculture and structural funds. [[Applause]] The PiS members voted against this resolution. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Scandal!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u10	Madam President, this is not a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u11	You want to cut in agriculture? In the Structural Funds? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u12	I would like to point out to you that this is not a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u13	Prime Minister! I ask you to intervene with your MEPs. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the hall: Targowica!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u14	I have to stop you. Madam President, I would like to draw your attention again to the fact that you are in violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, and I believe that you are doing so consciously. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[We're talking about finance.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I don't give a voice here. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that one more such speech... [[Scandal.]] ...and I'm gonna have to put in place a financial penalty procedure. [[Applause]] We proceed with the vote on the draft law from print no. 1934. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the government draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the legal environment of innovative activity, print No. 1934, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. The vote was 238 against 185, and no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed with the vote on the draft law from print no. 1946. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the government draft law amending the budget law for 2017, print No 1946, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 235 voted against - 188, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. I'm sorry. Wait a minute. I'm not declaring... We're just holding back because there's a card for the Member. [[Wait a minute.]] We proceed with the vote on the draft law from print No. 1944. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the government draft law on amending the Law on Special Solutions for the implementation of the Budget Act for 2017, print No. 1944, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 235 voted against - 187, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed with the vote on the draft law from print No. 1945. [[Formal conclusion.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the government draft law on specific arrangements for implementing the budget law for 2018, print 1945, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 235 voted against - 187, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in a joint discussion on draft laws: amending the Budget Act for 2017 and amending the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Act for 2017, as well as five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in discussions on the first readings of draft print laws 1945 and 1934. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. [[Shorter, Mr. Marshal. What's the use of all this time? Why five minutes? Too long.]] We return to the consideration of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the Act on collective water supply and collective waste water discharge and some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, has addressed this draft law to the Committee on Infrastructure, the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for consideration. Members have raised questions. Mr Marek Owl, Modern Club. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u15	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! There are at least two reasons why this law should not be further examined. The first reason is the process, the way in which it was conducted at government level: without consultation; there were minimum government consultations; the project was run by the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, and suddenly in the Sejm it turned out to be led by the Minister of the Environment; without consultation and agreement with the Joint Commission of Government and Local Government, although this concerns local affairs. The real reason for this project is that the Minister of the Environment wants to take full control of water prices. And we need to remind you... [[Voice from the room: But that's the question?]] Minister Gajda drives around Poland and says: From our economic analysis it appears that water prices must be higher. He's outraged: if the price of fuel is rising, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It has no social problems, but as the price of water rises, social protests are. Do you want to keep an eye on the rise in water prices? After all, the Prime Minister assured me they wouldn't be here. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u16	Thank you, sir. Mr Krystyna Sibińska, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u17	Mr. Marshal! The fact that the Members of the PiS are speaking without any mode of speaking has unfortunately become a standard accepted by you, but why do you agree... [[Applause]] [[But none of the Members have spoken yet.]] ...so that without any mode a draft law which applies to every Polish woman and every Polish person will be proceded. Let me remind you of that, Marshal. On 2 October, the first project is sent to various institutions for comments. They've got seven days to pay attention. These comments are coming in on October 9th. On October 10, a completely different project goes to the government meeting and is adopted. On 11 October he is in the Sejm, he is posted to the Sejm pages, without justification. Only after our intervention can we justify it. I dare say that this is a justification for this first project, because it is there as a person running Minister Smolinski from the Ministry of Infrastructure. Mr. Marshal! This is not the way to proceed, which is why I'm asking for this rejection request to be supported. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and to be a normal procedure of proceding rules that apply to every Polish woman, every Polishman. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u18	Thank you, Commissioner, but I am resolving your concerns. The mode is preserved. The bill has been in the Sejm for more than two weeks, its printing has a number, and I remind you that according to the regulations on a recommended, mandatory basis... [[Aren't you ashamed?]] ...the print number of each project should have seven days before. Formal application - Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform Club. I understand that in this case, about the first reading of the government proposal for a water supply bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u19	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal, I am very worried about the fact that many of the votes that are being held in this Chamber are illegal in my opinion because they violate the rules. And unfortunately, you do, Mr. Marshal. That's why I'd like to take a break. I made a formal request to ask for a break, really needed to collect signatures under the motion for a vote to be re-summated. You, in a permanent manner, refer to the article. 173, preventing questions from being asked and discussions in the case of points of dispute. There are 460 Members here and most of them are not members of the Sejm Bureau, they do not know what the contested points are about only at Bureau meetings. This point, which you forget, says that there is no discussion, but the case is voted without discussion after presented by the Marshal of the Sejm at the sitting. [[Applause]] We have just rejected three proposals, but most of us have not been informed. I am aware that the Marshal is not an Alpha and an omega. Very often, Mr. Marshal proves it to us. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] But it is your duty to present this issue before the vote. And it would be appropriate, marshal, that you, who so often abuse the Sejm's rules, observe its rules of procedure in this matter. This has continued since the beginning of this term of office. At the last session of the Sejm, I tried to draw attention to this. You didn't allow me to make a formal request. It had its further consequences for me later, as it turns out, which I think we're going to talk about. However, please note that this is a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. You do not allow formal applications, [[Applause]] You are voting against the rules of procedure. And I think we have a problem, Mr. Marshal. That is why I am asking for a break, so that you can have a moment to reflect on this so that the Bureau can lean on it so that, in its great wisdom, Mr Joachim Brudziński finally takes this document and read it once and that you take us seriously, since you do not want to take yourselves seriously. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u20	Thank you. I remind you that all procedures have been preserved. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] We are returning to the review of the agenda item concerning the first reading of the government bill amending the law... I've read that before. We are now voting. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[You'll be applauding for your next term.]] [[I'll be there.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print 1905 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 195 voted against - 228, 1 member abstained. I state that the Sejm rejected the application and therefore referred this draft law to the committee submitted by me. [[I remember you interrupting your previous term. I remind you, Niesiołowski.]] I propose on the basis of an article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm for committees to submit a report within a time limit allowing it to be discussed at this sitting. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you. We're back on point... [[Something like that.]] [[Voice from the room: Objection.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you, two weeks ago at the Senior Convention... [[Well, scandal.]] ...was agreed by the representatives of the Convention about this... [[But for what?]] ...that at the next session of the Sejm, which is now, we will consider this project. [[This is an outrage.]] And there was a preliminary agreement... [[But there isn't.]] [[Voice from the room: But there isn't.]] ...political for three readings. But if there's an objection... Who was the objector? [[I'm calling it in.]] I see. There is no need for justification. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[But I think it's worth it, Marshal.]] We will vote against the opposition. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Mr President, please take your seat. Mr President, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I order you to take your seat. [[This project doesn't have an emergency mode and there's no rush.]] The Rules of Procedure, ladies and gentlemen, says that the Marshal of the Sejm shows the seats of the Members that they hold at the sitting. [[Mr. Marshal, the project has no urgent procedure, a public hearing is needed.]] Then take your seat. We are voting on this proposal. Who of you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal by the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy to report within a time limit for consideration at this meeting would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 236 voted against - 187, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. We return to the examination of item 12. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft power market law. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this proposal to the Commission for Energy and the Treasury for consideration. The questions are raised by Mrs Monica Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u21	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! PLN 26,9 billion. This will cost us, taxpayers, households, companies, companies, energy-intensive industries, local government units, the introduction of a power market law. You are building a very expensive tool that imposes parataxes on all Polish citizens, but you do not know the purpose for which it is intended, because you do not have energy policy, because you do not know what energy mix is to be when you rule. You are currently cementing the old energy market, putting money into the coal market, and at the same time you are importing coal from abroad, so we Poles will pay for imported foreign coal. This project is not about innovation, about renewable energy sources, about demand management, about energy transformation. It's just putting our money in a bottomless bag. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u22	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Czerwiński, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u23	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Prime Minister! If you don't mind, I'd like to ask you a question. The first thing I want to draw attention to is that during two years of government of this particular majority, in an objective way we can say this, the price of energy has been doubled: by introducing the RES fee to PLN 3.70 per bill and increasing the transitional fee to PLN 8 per bill. No rules have been introduced to unlock investments in renewable energy sources. These investments don't exist. And now, after 2 years, we get a proposal for a law that introduces the next tax, another fixed fee that directly leads to an increase in energy prices. Prime Minister, did you want two years later? [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is what the ministers have achieved, and do you want this to continue until the end of your term of office? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u24	Thank you. Mr Sitarski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u25	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask the question: Is it true that the solution proposed in the draft law on regulation of the power market will actually result in the willingness of the Polish state to ensure the energy security of the country? Is it true that the RES market is subsidised and it is heavily subsidised and at the moment is there a need to stabilise the RES market by stable electricity supply from classical production? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u26	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Zubowski, Mr Law and Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u27	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Minister, a brief question: Are the two-good market solutions proposed today in other countries of the European Union? Is it true that if we do not introduce these solutions, in an optimistic option in five years' time, we will not have enough power on the market and in a pessimistic one - already in 2020? Is it true that the Civic Platform's approach to energy issues is symbolized by, among others, blocking investment such as the construction of a power plant in Ostrołęka or blocking subsidies for geothermals in Toruń for political reasons, what did Mr Piechociński say? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u28	Thank you. Minister Krzysztof Tchórzewski will address these issues. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u29	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I answer the questions asked. Firstly, as regards Mrs Rosa's first question, it is true that over the years up to 2029 the operating costs of the power market will be PLN 29 billion, except that they will not be borne by any additional resources, but only from the current energy price will be a separate charge. The point is that this power charge, which is already at the price of the energy market, operates and dies at general costs, is used for different purposes. We want to lead to a choice and through legislation to introduce that this is a fee to support investment, to cover this gap in costs that occur, in a situation where a conventional power plant is waiting for a moment when there will be no wind when there will be less sunshine. We have less wind than other countries in Europe, less sunshine and, as far as renewable energy is concerned, we are in the same situation. [[Learn a little bit.]] Unfortunately, therefore, we need to respond to this so that our industry can function so that Poland can grow, and it is to a greater extent that renewable energy sources are subsidised. [[Coal.]] We do, we auction for renewable energy sources. [[Bravo.]] We have decided to implement the findings of the European Commission, the European Union, to which Poland has joined within the European Union. We're making these arrangements. But in order to do so, we need energy security, the ability to work, the functioning of family farms and the functioning of the economy, so that there is a continuous supply of electricity. If we do not put in place the power market, we will not secure it, the situation is that if we make investments in this situation, these investments from the point of view of being able to return on conventional energy sources are expensive, because they are as if they are not fully financially safe, because the power plant, while waiting, must increase the cost of employees' wages, must bear the cost of 40% She must be burning up, she must be walking, and therefore these costs must be covered. We are drawing this amount from the current electricity price and it will only be used to support these investments. So the total support, even present, of renewable energy is much, much greater than the support under the current fee. That's one thing. But the second thing is that if we put in a power market and we bring about stability, that means that if we're guaranteed to cover lost costs, energy will be able to get much cheaper credits, because they'll be 100 percent sure when it comes to return. So there will be savings. It's about saving money because we're not gonna have a blackout threat because it's gonna be a brave power plant. All of this together counted by 2035 gives us PLN 55 billion in savings. So let's see, here's 29 billion and here's 55 billion. Even from a point of view... [[51.]] Savings are 55 billion and costs 30 billion. The next issue is that the energy market, as a certain economic function, will also result in investment growth and economic growth. So from this point of view, this is also an extremely important element of our economic development. The third issue is the fees that are raised as part of the price of energy, but here they are shown. These charges in the case of the group approx. 3 million of the least wealthy farms will be below PLN 2 per month, and in the case of the richest farms, about PLN 9 per month. [[Look at the bills, man.]] So even from that point of view, even though it's not a new charge, it's an old one, it's not a threat, it's not a threat, and it's a guarantee of energy security, power certainty and that we're going to be covered in electricity as well... Ladies and gentlemen, because thanks to the rule of law and justice, Poland is developing this way, [[Joy in the Chamber]] that the electricity consumption increased by 2,4% between 2015 and 2016 And in three quarters of this year, we're already up 2%. In 2 years, in 2016 and 2017, we will have a 5% increase in electricity consumption. It's a challenge. If we don't operate here, we're going to be economically viable because there won't be any electricity. We can't let that happen. That's because we have a chance to grow, that we're developing, that we need electricity, and it has to be. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo! Thanks to Law and Justice.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u30	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print No 1722, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. 163 voted against - 254, with 4 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. At the moment, in order to clarify matters relating to the secret procedure, I am announcing a three-minute break, calling the Senior Convention and inviting you to the dark living room. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 9 min. 42 hrs. 9 min 47]] I'm reopening the session. I'd like to inform you that the Senior Convention has been held. I have informed the Convention that both requests for secrecy do not comply with the rules of procedure. One proposal concerns a case which is not on the agenda, and the other proposal concerns a point, a revision of the Penal Code, but not to the extent that this amendment applies to other decisions. So we have clarified these points. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. The first question is raised by Barbara Dziuk, Wojciech Skurkiewicz and Małgorzata Golińska from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, on the organisation of the climate summit in Poland in Silesia. It is addressed to the Minister of the Environment. Please, who of your fellow Members? Mrs Barbara Dziuk. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u31	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The 2018 climate summit is due to take place... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u32	Excuse me, Member. I would very much like to ask you silence, Madam President, that you cannot ask a question and no one hears that question. I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u33	The climate summit is to take place in Poland, which was decided last year in Marrakech. This is a very important event for our country and region, because it was decided that this summit will take place in Silesia, Katowice. I would therefore like to ask the Minister a question: At what stage are preparations? Are all requirements related to such a big event met, secured? If there are any problems, I'm asking you to give me information on this. Will mining be the theme, as promised? It's been declared that we're going to talk about it. I wanted to thank you very much for choosing Silesia for this kind of undertaking. I think that in the context of smog and energy policy, which is closely linked to mining, it is very important that experts from all over the world speak out in this region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u34	Thank you very much. The question is answered by the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Environment, Minister Paweł Sałek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u35	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer your question, I thank you kindly for asking this question, I would like to point out that the climate summit, the so-called climate summit. COP24, will take place next year, in 2018, in Poland. Katowice and Śląskie voivodship will be the place which has been agreed and designated in principle by the Secretariat of the United Nations Convention. While preparing the place where the climate summit would take place, and this was decided last year at the Marrakech Summit, all countries of the world agreed to grant Poland the organisation of this meeting. This was preceded by the declaration and support of the Eastern European Group, in which Poland is grouped, within the UN structure. Two cities - the city of Gdansk and the city of Katowice - came forward to compete for this summit. Katowice proved to be better because they have very good conference and lecture infrastructure, which means that in this place due to the winter season, which will then be better organized. For us, the most important thing on the substance is that in Katowice the so-called. implementation package. According to the UN calendar and the Paris Agreement, this is part of the detailed implementation of the Paris Agreement's climate policy, and it is therefore important that this documentation and all the provisions that will be related to the implementation of the Paris Agreement be adopted in Katowice. Today we can say that after the pre-COP, because the pre-COP took place last week under the Fiji Presidency, Fiji will be chairing the climate convention this year, there is a very serious agreement that the implementation package, the so-called. Rulbook, will be accepted in Katowice. For us, from our economic point of view and raw material characteristics, this is important, because Poland takes over the presidency in 2018, when Minister Szyszko as Minister of the Environment will be President of the 24th Conference of the Parties, he will negotiate for a year on the process of combating climate change. This means that Poland in the international agreement, in the global agreement, as well as in the EU agreement, will have a very high position in the area of the environment and we are constantly building this position for many months. This is a characteristic place, very important issue, because we want to show Silesia, Silesian agglomeration, Silesian voivodeship as an example of a very good transformation of the system, economic and energy, where the city of Katowice is a symbol of the fact that it is possible to transform the economy towards new technologies, towards innovation, towards reducing emissions, while maintaining economic growth, development of the country, development of the region. I can tell you today, after many international meetings, that Katowice, due to its characteristics, arouses great interest. I hope that there will be a lot of participants at the 2018 summit. We're expecting at least 20,000 today. Participants. The basic thing, which is to facilitate the introduction and implementation of such a serious undertaking, is the preparation of a speciality concerning the organisation of this summit. This law is being processed at this point - it is already at the very end - in the Ministry of the Environment and will be passed on to further legislative work. I hope that it will be adopted quickly by Parliament and handed over to the President for signature, because such a large undertaking must have a special legislative act. It is also a request to your Members to proceed with this act as soon as possible. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u36	Thank you very much. The additional question is asked by Wojciech Skurkiewicz. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u37	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is undoubtedly a great event. The climate conference will take place for the third time in our country. After Poznań and Warsaw it was time for Silesia, Katowice. And that's a very good choice. At the climate conference, as Mrs Dziuk mentioned earlier, will there be an opportunity for us to point to the economy, but also to the carbon-based economy that our country stands for? We know that, in particular in the European Union, it is often a misunderstanding of this form of management. That's one thing. The second issue concerns preparations for this summit. Is the Ministry of the Environment already, but also the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, taking action to ensure that the climate summit in Katowice ends with some arrangements, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which will contribute to the fact that we will be able to later, for many years, indicate that we have a declaration by many countries on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, etc., something like the Kyoto Protocol?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u38	Thank you very much, sir. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u39	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will answer your question. Yes, the resort of the environment, which is the leading resort for this conference and climate protection issues, is taking various kinds of action. We also cooperate with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Let me just mention a matter related to the fact that we have a special document, the so-called. Pro Memoria No. 1, which has already been transferred to all countries of the European Union, and has also been transferred by the Permanent Representation of the Republic of Poland in New York. In this document there is information about what Poland will want to present in Katowice under the 2018 Presidency. This document has been handed over. In addition, it should be stressed that during the General Assembly of the United Nations in September this year, President Duda, Minister Szyszko and Minister Waszczykowski held a number of different meetings, including. with the Secretary-General, with the Prime Minister of Fiji, who will have the Presidency of the Climate Convention in a moment, with the representatives of many, many countries, I do not want to exchange them here at this moment. And this work continues at the level of the President's firm, the Prime Minister's firm, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Environment and other subordinates, is very intense. Today we are a little bit in such a situation that we do not want to show too much of our demands, which will soon be very exposed, due to respect for our colleagues from the Republic of Fiji, because they will be taking over the Presidency of the Kingdom of Morocco since November this year. Hence, we have to wait a few more weeks with our very official and strong activity, although discreetly it is still happening, at the level of both the various meetings and the documents I mentioned here - pro memoria. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u40	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to question two. The second question is asked by Tomasz Nowak, Paweł Bańkowski and Jolanta Hibner, the Civic Platform, on the lack of coal for individual customers on fuel warehouses throughout Poland. The question is addressed to the Minister of Energy. The first question is asked by Mrs Jolanta Hibner. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u41	Thank you very much. Minister, what assistance has the Ministry prepared for households in a situation of energy poverty, and at what time can they count on it? The projected increase in coal prices will be around 15% so the number of households in the energy poverty situation will increase by 10% And it's going to be about 35%. That is why a cover programme for our citizens is important.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u42	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Signals on coal shortages on fuel assemblies are received not only from consumers but also from entrepreneurs, for whom coal companies do not perform the contracted quantities. And I have a question: Does the Ministry of Energy monitor the coal market on fuel stations? If so, where are the greatest shortcomings and how does the Ministry of Energy, which has supervisory instruments for coal companies, intend to fill this gap, the shortage of sorting coal and green peas on fuel assemblies? How does it look at the end of September 2017 to implement the planned production plans in individual coal companies controlled by the State Treasury? As at the end of September 2017, the level of imports of coal into Poland, was it higher in relation to the same period in 2015 and 2016? I would also like to ask for information on the import directions for the same period. And such a question: Is it true that the Polish Górnicza Group, although it does not implement the quantities contracted in contracts to its authorized sellers, uses other commercial instruments, selling coal at a higher price to these traders, which automatically translates into a higher price for final customers, for households? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u43	Thank you very much. Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski will answer the questions of the Minister of State at the Ministry of Energy, a representative of the Government for the restructuring of hard coal. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u44	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Does the Ministry of Energy monitor the market for coal sales on fuel units throughout Poland? It does not monitor the market for coal sales on other fuel units, as monitoring in this respect is carried out by individual coal companies only on their own. This is due to the fact that, having its coal stores, we can be sure that on these coal deposits we have information about the policy, while monthly reports of authorised sellers of the Polish Mining Group relate to the state of stocks supplied in fuel warehouses. The data is obtained by the company's sales representatives for visits to fuel warehouses of authorised sellers and non-networks throughout the country, so this system, which is linked to our entities, is monitored. On the other hand, we know that there are salesmen outside the system. So this group somehow because it's autonomous doesn't come into this system that we know of. We can only estimate him in some way. In which areas of the country are present, if so, the biggest coal shortages on fuel stations? Some problems have been noted in terms of delivery to the right coal sites, but this is not the result of the fact that we do not have this coal on the mines. This is related to the possibility of transferring transport modes to different places, as well as among others. with contracts that are related to transport companies. In fact, this has an impact on the fact that we have a shortage in certain places, but it is not related to the fact that this carbon is not in the place where it should be. Activities are currently underway, among others. There's an inter-ministerial team that I have the opportunity to oversee. The point is to speed up the supply of hard coal to the places where it is most expected. As far as the Polish Mining Group is concerned, the supply of coal to the market is carried out in quantities resulting from current production capacity, which are adapted to the signed national trade agreements. On our assemblies, the Polish Mining Group, there is coal, which was previously contracted, which was delivered earlier. Currently there is a period, this occurs annually, increased purchases of coal by individual customers. Therefore, low stocks of coal may appear on fuel units throughout the country supported by authorized sellers, but this coal on our units is. However, we have such a phenomenon that not all who have come forward now have previously concluded that they will have a need to buy coal. We estimate that this may be related, among others. with the fact that coal prices were expected to stabilise. I also think they've received deliveries from other directions before. These deliveries due to the transport from outside Poland were also in some way shaken. We notice that some places are affected by smaller amounts of coal. This can cause the number of queries to increase and interest in coal from the Polish Mining Group. How does the Ministry intend to fill the gap regarding the absence of sorting coal and green peas on fuel assemblies across Poland in order to meet the expectations of individual consumers as regards fuel for heating their households, given the heating season since September? And here the answer is that the Polish Górnicza Group supports its customers with whom it has concluded trade agreements. As far as professional suppliers are concerned, we already have these long-term contracts. So that here we have an issue organized for this year and for the future. This year the company produced and sold around 230 thousand. t of coal more than in the comparable period of last year, therefore these phenomena are a little surprising for us, but they are, these voices reach us. As we compare the magnitudes that occur in the extraction of coal, they do not exactly confirm this phenomenon, which does not mean that we are questioning these voices. I am not questioning the validity of your parliamentarians' questions. In view of the increase in the price of imported coal, the company noted an increase in the number of requests from operators who had previously supplied imported coal. That's what I mentioned earlier. We probably have such a phenomenon that foreign prices have definitely increased compared to what has happened so far. Compared to Polish prices, they are indeed much higher. Those who used to transfer coal from abroad today direct their inquiries to the Polish Mining Group. The share of Lubelski Węgiel Bogdanka and Jastrzębska Węglowa on the market of individual customers is negligible, so here I would focus more on the Polish Mining Group. Then Tauron Extraction. In the period January-September, sales of coal increased significantly compared to the same period last year. So here we notice, as far as Tauron Extraction is concerned, on the example of these figures, that there is no confirmation of a shortage in those sort of products that are related to people purchasing coal for a heating period. Another subject is Węglokoks Kraj. It represents only a few percent of domestic production. Notwithstanding the above, coal extraction was increased in 2017. This is the largest growth, although it is a small volume in the entire market. 280,000, of which 84,000. they are fuel coal, large and medium sortements, including eco peas. Especially in the case of Carboxyk Country we tried to increase the extraction, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because this company had already been able to prepare its sortment for the fuel market when it comes to coals, organic eco peas and thick coal for individual customers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u45	Thank you very much. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: Or else, your marshal... He'll be here any minute. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: Okay, thank you. Then the Minister will be able to answer. A supplementary question, Mr Tomasz Nowak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u46	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! We were in sanctimonious. That's where the story got to us, and it's like there's cards on the stacks, carbon cards. This is a clear association with socialism. Socialism fell when it began Sugar cards, and now we're dealing with carbon cards. It hasn't been in decades. At the same time, Minister Tchórzewski, on one of the web portals, complained that coal was being bought in reserve and that is why it is not there that people buy coal for a year and a half ahead. Well, it's a terrible thing. Ladies and gentlemen, you don't have an energy development strategy, you have a mine decommissioning strategy. You use 8 billion zlotys to do this. Krupiński mine was destroyed, Makoszowy mine was destroyed, and we are increasingly importing coal. There is a regulation of the Minister which provides that from 2018 the fifth generation boilers are to be, very good, adapted to coal grade, to eco-pea. A very good regulation, but so what if there is a regulation, [[♪ The bell ♪]] since it turns out that the production capacity we have at the moment in terms of eco-pea production is insufficient.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u47	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u48	What are you gonna do about the carbon loss? Will you approach this innovatively or traditionally, and socialism equals cards?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u49	Thank you very much. I ask Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u50	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, If it's about the paper business, I'll check it out. I'm taking this information, and I'm gonna take an interest in it. If you allow me, I will not refer to this. On the other hand, on the issue of mine decommissioning, I would like to say that there is some polemics going on, because Makoszowy is one such, one can say, the giggle of reality, because this is the first mine, where the representative of the social side had a significant influence on the fact that Brussels intervened very strongly in the actions of this government, continuing certain decisions of the previous government, as we were looking for a solution for this company. As you know, the idea of state aid in the case of an entity or in the case of a part of the mining assets that is in the SRK is that we can support coal production in the SRK decreasingly, we cannot increase it. And all of a sudden, the mine decided to arm the wall, and so in the middle of the year it increased. Let me put it this way: it was a problem for us when it comes to Makoszowy, while the activity of some representatives of the social side, or actually one person, caused this person to share this information with officials in Brussels who asked for an appropriate report and said that the management was actually acting like this, and not otherwise, so it should be enforced from the Polish government to actually close this mine. So much for the Makoshovs. But Krupiński mine, believe me, did not mine coal for the market. It was rather coke coal or possibly it was within the framework of professional energy. On the other hand, when it comes to the shortage that actually appears on the market, which is linked to ecgroszko, with coal, it is connected, please countries with the decisions that have led - I do not want to undermine the ecological activities of the Silesian voivodship or the Małopolska voivodship, because there is also a carbon quality law that regulates air purity by creating classifications, quality certificates of purchased coal which is traded in Poland, we can sell, extract, as well as come from outside coal with certain parameters that meet the ecological conditions suggested to us from Brussels, and we should meet these conditions, and I must tell you that these decisions have been taken from day to day in the resolutions of these two Seymists - that we have come from the market that there is a gap, I might say, 2 million t, which is related to the fulfilment of what has been used in individual farms. It actually made me actually -- I don't want to go into polemics here, because the truth is that we're fighting smog, [[♪ The bell ♪]] we are all trying to reach clean air - at the moment when before the heating period as a result of earlier information - I will finish, your marshal, just one more word - for the Polish Mining Group, which was in the process of analysis of Katowice Holdingu Węglowy, started investments, it was necessary to react quickly, and only Węglokox The country was prepared for these increases which I wrote earlier. This is why the gap has actually arisen here, not as a result of a shortage of coal, but as a result of a market different than so far. And we are really trying to make up for it by investing in mines, especially Katowice Holding Coal mines, and creating such mixtures that are to be on the market in the future, on the one hand, in the right quantity and on the other hand in the right assortment. This is, among other things, the idea that we had in connection with the so-called. Basic assets of the Polish Mining Group, i.e. the Coal Company, with KHW's assets, because we obtain as a result of this synergy, among others. a better carbon resource for individual customers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u51	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Members: Mirosław Suchoń, Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Ewa Lieder, Mirosław Pampuch, Krzysztof Truskolas and Witold Zembaczyński, the Modern Club, on the details and results of the negotiations on the revision of the provisions of the Posted Workers Directive, concluded on 23 October 2017, and possible decisions in the future. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u52	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! This, of course, is a sad thing. As a result of the defeat of the government of the Polish PiS states of the European Union adopted a position that was extremely unfavourable to Polish companies and Polish workers before negotiations on changes to the provisions of the Posted Workers Directive. However, just a few weeks ago, when I asked about this negotiation plan, I heard from a government representative not to be interested, because the government of PiS gets up from its knees and everything will be okay. Unfortunately, the PiS government failed, as even government officials say. That is why we need to talk about it, ask about the causes of this disaster and about the plan for the future. So, Minister, first of all, the cause of the disaster. What country has adopted minimum negotiating conditions before starting discussions on the shape of this directive? How many times has the PiS government initiated talks with the Estonian Presidency on the proposals that this Presidency will make to the Member States? What reasons do the PiS government see as to the length of the period for which a worker can be posted? Let me remind you that the conclusions of the summit set this deadline for just 12 months, it can be extended in extreme cases, exceptional cases, up to 18 months, and the absolute minimum in our opinion - but also assumed by the PiS government - is 24 months. The fact that such a compromise could have been reached shows the negotiating position The European Parliament, yesterday it was published, where this period was extended... i.e. This is the starting position for 24 months. So what are the causes of the disaster in this matter? What are the causes of the diplomatic disaster? I am talking about the Visegrad countries, about the fact that this unity has not been maintained from the beginning to the end. Why didn't the Estonian Presidency support those proposals that were beneficial to us? Finally, the most important thing of all is the failure of the transport industry. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The aim is to include this sector in the directive, although with a transitional period, but that does not satisfy us. What are the causes of this disaster? How many times did the Polish side initiate meetings with countries that did not feel strong pressure to hit Polish transport? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u53	Thank you very much, sir. The questions are answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Stanisław Szwed. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u54	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Membership! I have a request for you because the case is extremely important, it concerns thousands of Polish workers. Don't use the words defeat, scandal, because it's not. This is a very difficult compromise that we have worked out after hard negotiations, but the ball is still in the game and you can also join in, because there is a question of the European Parliament, the European Commission. We are in the first stage of negotiations - I will explain how it works. But if you make the atmosphere as you have said today, it will be even more difficult. But it seems to be... [[All of this is hard for you because you can't.]] Don't disturb me, sir. Please don't disturb me. [[Voice from the room: Do not disturb.]] [[You won't tell me what to do.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u55	I very much ask Members to remain calm. You're responding to the Minister right now. Gentlemen, please sit on the bench for peace. Gentlemen, I'm going to have to... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: And now I am going specifically to the solutions that concern the draft revision of Directive 96/71. To start with: only our ministry recently, I have a detailed list - 45 meetings, including with ministers, with prime ministers, with all who have an impact on the decision on this directive. First thing: At the meeting of the Employment and Social Policy Council (EPSCO) on 23 October, Member States adopted the position of the Council, so-called. the general approach with regard to the draft amendment to Directive 96/71 of the European Community on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services, the opposition of Poland, Hungary, Latvia and Lithuania, and the abstention from the vote of Croatia, Ireland and the United Kingdom, all of which count equally. Poland did not support the agreement reached in the Council due to unsatisfactory road transport solutions, which were one of the key elements of the negotiations. Transport has not been excluded from the scope of the Directive, while the Council's adopted position provides for the suspension of the application to road transport of the amended provisions on posting until the entry into force of the sectoral regulations proposed by the European Commission in the framework of the mobility package. It is also important that the EPSCO Council has decided to move transport rules to the mobility package negotiations to be conducted in the Transport Council. It is worth emphasizing that, given the doubts of many Member States, Commissioner Thyssen has made it clear that transit is not covered by the Posting of Workers Directive. In the opinion of Poland, the inclusion of transport by rules of posting of workers will have a negative impact not only on the functioning of the transport industry, but also on the free movement of goods and consequently on the competitiveness of the European economy. One of the conditions for compromise is that it has been moved to transport negotiations in the Transport Council. As I say, the ball is still in the game, this case is still to be played, also in the sense of referring to other records that occur in this respect. The next issue concerns periods. In addition to the transport issue, Poland's negative position was also affected by the proposal concerning the so-called. long-term posting. Poland was in favour of a 24-month posting period. During the negotiations, it was agreed that, as a rule, the posting would last 12 months, but by means of a reasoned notification by the service provider it would be extended to 18 months. This solution is a compromise between 12 and 24. In addition, 6 months will be from the vending machine if there is an employer's request. Then it'll be 18 months from the vending machine. The other elements of the adopted Council position mostly meet the expectations of our country. This is, among others, the case. the question of compromise in terms of extending the transposition period of the Directive. Transposition of the Directive - 3 years, implementation - 4 years, i.e. we have a 4 year transitional period for the implementation of the Directive. The very important thing that we have managed to maintain is the removal of the rules on subcontracting and the so-called. the envisaged period of posting. We also put these demands as a very important element. Another very important issue that has been adopted according to our expectations: the costs of accommodation, food and transport are covered in accordance with the laws of the sending State and not as other host countries have claimed. This is an important decision. [[For 12 months.]] 12 plus 6, which is 18 months you can. But, of course, this issue is still to be negotiated. The next issue is compliance with the rules and the issue of easing the employer's liability rules where he has complied with incomplete or incorrect information from the employment bank published on the official national website. In this case, the provision will work in favour of the employer. An important thing to say right now. The adoption of the general approach is not the end of the negotiations, but opens the next stage of work and will be the basis for negotiations with the European Parliament, whose position is very much less favourable than that negotiated by the government. This is yet to be achieved by the European Commission, which is three bodies: the European Parliament, the European Commission and the Council in the context of the negotiations. The Presidency in the negotiations today covers Estonia, after this period, after the new year it will be Bulgaria. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So there is this time for preparation, and I expect you, too, through the people who are in the European Parliament, to join these negotiations. Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: There's still a chance to fight for better terms, the way we negotiated. It's important that this compromise we've reached... He's a good starting point for further negotiations. Thank you very much. The additional question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u56	Thank you very much. Minister, you have to call things by name. It's a disaster. Anyway, I have to say, we've been politely offering help here the first time. When I first asked that question a dozen weeks ago, the government had a shoe and arrogance. I have to say that today the Minister sounds a little different, but it doesn't change the fact that it's a disaster. I will remind you that, after this period of 12 months or even 18 months, the agreement will have to be signed under the terms of the host country, with all the consequences, including the payment of contributions, taxes, i.e. the loss of our budget. Minister, we are talking in the Polish Parliament in the care of Polish companies. What's the future? What will this have for business - how do you judge it - and for companies? Is there a negotiation plan for the future, and if so, what plan? And does the government have a plan to use this transition period? 'Cause he's definitely gonna be there. The question is whether the government has a plan to use this transition period to support Polish companies [[♪ The bell ♪]] both abroad and with us, so that during this transitional period they strengthen their position in the West after the entry into force of this directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u57	Thank you, sir. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u58	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We'll stick to our rhetoric. I believe that this is a good compromise that we have been able to negotiate in the political situation we have been in. Thanks to previous decisions, we managed to implement the so-called procedure. The yellow card, it didn't work this time. That's the first thing. The second thing that is important: we had a negotiating position of both the Polish Parliament and the government and it is still valid. The Sejm was kept informed of the work in both the European Union and Parliament. It is not true that, after a transitional period, contributions will be paid, taxes paid. No, this is a question of labour rights, that is the most important element of this directive, which would be applicable after this period. We still have this situation today, as I said earlier, that the three sides are now sitting down for negotiations: the Estonian Presidency, which is negotiating on the part of the Council, the European Commission, Mrs Thyssen, and the European Parliament. Each side has other proposals, and at the moment our goal is to make those solutions that we have proposed, for example. in the case of the duration of posting, still fight. An important element is, and it sort of goes to the Transport Council, the issue of negotiation when it comes to transport. This is a good solution that we wanted transport matters to be decided by the Transport Council, and that's where it's going to be. These meetings are going on, we'll see what the final outcome of the talks will be. I believe deeply that there is still a chance, in terms of what we have managed to achieve in the state in which it was, and we are still able to improve this situation, but there must be a joint action, together. If this is an act on the same principle as the Member says that this is a disaster, a scandal, then such a joint action will not be. I am counting on your cooperation in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u59	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u60	Minister, I didn't use the word "scandal" but this is a disaster. You've set your own higher goals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u61	Thank you, sir. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Mr Jan Kilian and Mr Aleksander Mrówczyński, the Law and Justice, on the staff of non-medical hospitals for nervous and mentally ill patients, following the example of the Hospital for Nervo and Psycho. Stanisława Kryzana in Starogard Gdański - to the Minister of Health. Please, the first question is asked by Mr Jan Kilian. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u62	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'm asking a question about the employees of non-medical hospitals for nervous and mentally ill patients on the example of an old-garde hospital. Non-medical workers, in particular the halls, employed in such hospitals because of the nature of their work in a special way feel the difficulties associated with this work, which is very often dangerous. The hospital also accepts very dangerous criminals. During work, workers often put their health at risk, often life, when, because they are close to patients, they are forced by different circumstances, different events to replace medical workers or security workers. Non-medical workers feel very bitter because of the feeling of very serious rejection. In order to get even a minimum guaranteed salary, they are forced to make up for various extra shifts. In the old-gard hospital, the case concerns about 300 employees. The current pay situation of hospital workers for mentally and nervously ill in Starogard is a gap in the lack of real increases for 9 years. The Act of 8 June 2017 introduced a systemic regulation of wage increases, but labour rates are developed only for medical professions. For non-medical professions there are no detailed studies and financial security. The remuneration rates developed by the hospital administration are considerably lower for non-medical workers. This now results in a collective dispute and the launch of a strike. My humble mediation in this matter has allowed this dispute to be suppressed for a moment. Detailed information has been provided to the Minister before. That's why I'm asking the Minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to confirm the parties involved... It's about knowing the need for a great insight into this matter. Is it possible to improve the material existence of this working group in the near future?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u63	Thank you very much, sir. I ask Minister Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u64	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On 8 June, the Sejm, as you have already pointed out, adopted a law on how to determine the minimum basic salary of medical professionals employed in medicinal entities. The main objective of this regulation was to secure minimum salaries mainly for medical workers, because we are aware that there are major problems with securing the functioning of medicinal entities, staffing equipment, professional medical staff. It is clear that some qualified medical professionals did not work in Poland, using the possibility of doing this profession in other countries of the European Union, where the salary was much better than in Poland. In this respect, among others, encourage medical workers to stay in Poland, one of such encouraging elements was the draft law. We were aware that there were large disparities in the remuneration of medical workers, even within the same professional groups, which involved a great sense of injustice for individual workers. That is why the government has undertaken this effort to regulate minimum wages. I would like to stress that this law does not constitute a wage net or a qualifier. It is a law that regulates the minimum basic remuneration. This is different from the Act on the Minimum Compensation of Workers, that not only do we regulate the minimum basic remuneration, but employees also have additional benefits associated with the consequences of fixing this minimum remuneration. This was the aim, this law was primarily dedicated to medical workers defined in the Act on Medical Activity, i.e. to those who legitimise themselves with professional qualifications for the provision of health services, who participate directly in the provision of health services. This regulation sets out in detail the level of minimum remuneration in the different groups of professional medical professionals and the way to reach this minimum remuneration. Regulation of the Art. 3 is of a nature and may also be the basis for employees' claims if the levels of remuneration resulting from that law are not maintained. On the other hand, the issue of other workers, non-medical workers, has been regulated in Article. 5 of the Act, where the legislator has imposed an obligation on the head of the medicinal entity to include the rest of the staff in those regulations, the provision of which is Article. 5 does not have a constituent character. Depending on the medical operator's ability and how these agreements are negotiated with the trade union organisations, other workers may also be subject to specific wage regulation. Why didn't we undertake the effort to regulate all our employees? Since in the case of other workers, non-medical workers who are employed in medicinal entities and pursue their profession, these professions are not entirely attributable to the so-called. a relevant feature that is characteristic of a particular profession. It is difficult for us to determine what is different about work, for example. a doorman or, let's say, a caretaker working in a medical facility from the employee's work, e.g. At the office or at the post office. So here it is difficult to find a feature that distinguishes this worker and would give the opportunity to increase his salary only because he works in a medicinal entity. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that there is such a statutory delegation for directors of medicinal entities. On the basis of the article. 5 non-medical workers may also be covered by this regulation. I would also like to stress that there has been a clear increase in health expenditure, the resources allocated to the financing of health benefits under the NFZ. We were assessing the effects of this regulation. In 2017, out of these increased expenditures on health care, the measures that are transferred to medicinal products, approx. 16.0% is consumed to increase the salaries of employees. There is therefore a chance to propose an increase in salaries from these increased incomes also to other professional groups. I would also like to stress that there are also work, discussions, discussions within the Council of Social Dialogue on this law, because from the social side there are various kinds of proposals and opinions aimed in some sense at modeling this law. This discussion is ongoing. There have already been further meetings on this bill. There may be some modifications to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u65	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question is asked by Mr Aleksander Mr Forczyński, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u66	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, We have heard from Starogard Gdański that the strikers have gone to strike alert after the initial agreement has been reached. It calms the situation, but only until the end of this year. The point is that non-medical workers working in health care are waiting for systemic solutions. I do not hide that in a special way I am seeking the fate of the halls. What are the possibilities of introducing in the Rules of Procedure the remuneration of non-medical workers equivalent to that of the Act of 8 June 2017 on how to determine the lowest basic remuneration of medical professionals employed in medicinal entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u67	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u68	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! As I said, this law mainly regulated the issue of medical professions, and we are discussing this at the Social Dialogue Council as well as within the Public Services Panel, which is the body set up by the Social Dialogue Council. We will try to find solutions here to satisfy other health professionals as well. I would like to stress that this bill is not a taxi driver, it is not a formula for the rules of remuneration, it is not a wage net. This is simply a document on the basis of which we determine the minimum basic remuneration. In fact, in the hands of the directors of medicinal entities are those issues that you are talking about. We are aware that directors are limited by a limited amount of financial resources for the provision of benefits, including personal costs, but, as I said, there has been a clear increase in health expenditure, overperformance is financed, at the moment there is a change in funding, which is also beneficial for many medical operators. Under these measures, funds should be made available for the remuneration of other workers. On the other hand, there is no legal basis for the wage network or specific indicators for these other workers at the moment, and this is rather a matter of the director of the medicinal entity. He should, in the rules of remuneration, which arise during discussions, negotiations with trade union organisations, draw up appropriate provisions that would satisfy medical entities. But I also think that this limitation resulting from the lack of resources may be less felt next year if the High Sejm adopts a law that has now been accepted by the government at its meeting on Tuesday, a law that guarantees an increase in health expenditure. From next year, these will be specific amounts that will fund the budgets of medicinal entities. We believe that this increase in expenditure will increase the chance to improve the pay conditions for not only medical but also non-medical workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u69	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Members Stanisław Lamczyk and Michał Stasiński, the Civic Platform Club, on the lack of proper government action against the victims of the August storm. The question is addressed to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. The first question is asked by Mr Michał Stasiński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u70	Minister! Have the voivodships from the three most injured voivodships in the voivodships, i.e. Wielkopolska, Kujawsko-Pomorskie and Pomorskie, collected data that allow us to determine how many families will not be able to rebuild their homes before winter, so that they are fit for residence? Second: Do the voivodships have a plan and resources to help these families? And thirdly: Do the voivodships coordinate, supervise and monitor such assistance together with local authorities? This issue mainly concerns the so-called. residential containers that are distributed. Do the voivodships have any information on what this situation is like? It's just that there's no family that doesn't have a physical place to live before winter. Further, the amount of aid granted by the government to victims may be used to repair the damage to buildings and to clean up the area. The municipalities in the letters sent to the victims state that repair expenditure must relate only to damage as confirmed by the destruction protocol drawn up by the building surveillance officer. According to my personal contacts with the victims, a lot of damage is revealed after the protocol has been drawn up. Very often, it was made at a time when the victims were under deep stress. The question is: Will it be possible to supplement the damage protocol and will it be taken into account? And then, many of the victims lost not only their homes, but also movable property such as furniture, household appliances. Can this amount of government aid spent be accounted for for for the purchase of such equipment, e.g. up to 10,000.? Come on, many of the victims are elderly, infirm. Even if they receive funding, they will not be able to find a company that could make the necessary repairs themselves, they will not be able to succeed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the wholesaler to buy materials. Wouldn't it be possible to consider a situation where a voivode would grant the municipalities the right to tender...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u71	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u72	...to rebuild individual houses from the kind of measures that the locals would pass on to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u73	Thank you very much, sir. The questions are answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Minister Jarosław Zieliński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u74	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The questions of the Member are correct. You have to talk about it, but this introduction is judged. Here it should be said immediately that there was such an incomparable intention that there was insufficient help. Well, what I'm saying is that government aid is enough and fast. It was quick, immediate, and it's being delivered all the time. But first things first. After the August storms that took place at night from 11 to 12 August, the government immediately took action to reach out to the victims as soon as possible. Of course, first of all, there were rescue operations that we have already talked about in this room several times, carried out by the appropriate services: the State Fire Department, voluntary firefighters, the military, other uniformed and civilian services. Immediately, budget appropriations were mobilised by the government for the payment of these first allowances to victims of up to 6 000. zł. I'll tell you right away, because I'm probably not gonna be able to answer everything, and there were a lot of questions that when it comes to, for example. about this household appliances and this kind of shopping, it's from this first aid, out of the 6,000. zł you can buy such items. I'll also say right away that the benefits are up to 6,000. zł do not require settlement documents. So that the actions are very simplified. So this can be used, and this family, the victims in the storms, have benefited. The granting of these benefits did not require an estimate of losses - let us add that too. Therefore, it could be done very quickly. They could therefore be paid immediately. Then there were and still are those higher benefits paid, whose amounts, incidentally, we raised. It was after these storms that we increased the upper limits of the aid rates, I will remind you - to 200,000. PLN, before it was up to 100,000 when it comes to residential buildings, houses. We have introduced a new category of aid to 100,000. for the destroyed economic buildings serving the most basic living needs associated with such activities. To date we have transferred from the state budget for the three most affected voivodships - I will remind you that these are the Pomeranian, Kujawsko-Pomorskie and Wielkopolska voivodships - the amount of over PLN 115 million. But this is probably not all yet, further measures will be directed if there is a demand for voivodships, and voivodships have this demand if they come to them with such proposals from the municipalities. Despite the benefits granted... Here I would like to say that these actions are immediate, there are no delays, and there is no financial problem so far, at least - I hope that it will not be there by the end of the year - when it comes to mobilising the funds for the benefit. Despite these activities, not all houses, we know about this, will be rebuilt before winter due to the time of the year and short time to rebuild, as well as the difficult construction and renovation market, today there are problems with companies, with their acquisition. A whole range of these problems appear, but mostly it's about time to make it before winter, and certainly not everyone will. We also come to these people with other kinds of help. The Voivodeships have collected, sir, family data, all identified by name, place of residence, situation that concerns them: those families that need support, especially those who need support in connection with the coming winter. They have knowledge of where their families are - we have such lists where each family is, we also receive them - and what help these families require. For this purpose, they keep in touch with local government units, because local governments are the closest, and this assistance we are talking about is the task of the municipalities themselves. There is cooperation between municipalities and voivodships, but it must also be said that in terms of the amounts that have been transferred from the state budget to voivodships and by voivodships to voivodships, not all of them have been sent from the municipalities to those in need, victims. Maybe I'll just quote the general numbers, but it's worth mentioning them, and I can also give them later, break them up into voivodships. Of the amount of PLN 115 million transferred from the budget of the municipality's state, 84 320 thousand have so far been paid out. zł, i.e. 24 million zł of this remain in the accounts of municipalities, these are funds not yet paid. I don't want to go into the details of the discussion, whether it involves any problems, slowness of action, or simply higher demand. We don't have time to figure this out. There's probably a lot of situations here that would explain these issues, but the fact is, they're not voivodeships. whether or not the government was late with the transfer of money, only, if already, some municipalities in some situations. As far as further questions are concerned, of course we also transfer funds to the applications of the voivods, and voivodships to the applications of the municipalities for the purchase of containers, so that these families can - those who want to use it - use them before the winter. For this purpose - there is also no arrears in the implementation of the proposals, they are immediately implemented - we have transferred over a million, one hundred million, one thousand... I'm in a hurry... Over 1,100 thousand. zł. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The funds, as I said, are transferred immediately. Your marshal, a little more, if you don't mind, because...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u75	Very quickly, because you'll still have a chance with the next question to answer. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Yes. On the other hand, when it comes to these difficult cases related to cleaning up the area and the fact that older people may need help, local social assistance centres should be the first to help. And they're coming. If you need any help in your work, in such activities that may also be difficult to organize, in such a form as to hire someone, get bills, pay for it, settle, please - you are here with me Chief Chief of State Fire Department - to address the nearest unit of the State Fire Department. I can't say to volunteers because they're an association, so they're acting according to their own laws, but I think and believe that if anybody reports to the nearest CSR unit, the sacrificial firefighters will also come with this kind of help. Thank you, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: But in general... Now, Marshal, I'm coming down from the podium. Last sentence in this part. But please remember that it is the municipalities through their social assistance centres that are to prepare and provide this assistance, and the state, the voivodships, the government is providing funds for this purpose. Thank you very much. Please, a supplementary question - Mr Stanisław Lamczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u76	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! As far as the $6,000 is concerned, the first money, it wasn't a problem. On the other hand, the so-called. economic compensation... I can give you examples in Pomorskie voivodship: Karsin, Dziemiana, Lipusz. They didn't get compensation until two months later. Time is important there, because people have broken roofs, compensation is needed. So people have been waiting for money for almost two months and I've had a lot of monits in this case. The same is true of these criteria for assessing farmers' losses, e.g. three conditions must be met: the destruction of agricultural buildings above 30%, agricultural foetuses above 30% and livestock population above 30%. If a condition is not met, then there is no compensation. And here's another thing, it's counted. [[♪ The bell ♪]] depreciation. It is a pity that the state of the natural disaster has not been declared, because it could have been done in a completely different way.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u77	Thank you very much, sir. I'm asking the Minister for an answer now.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u78	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Mr President, please do not repeat at least such false information that if the state of the natural disaster were declared, it would be better. No. It wouldn't have changed anything about the amount of compensation. The state of the natural disaster does not affect at all the mechanisms in terms of compensation or the amount of compensation, so please do not say that in the Seym, because this is simply not true. Don't repeat that, please look at the bill that regulates these issues. There was no need for conditions and conditions to introduce the state of the natural disaster, because the measures that the state had in its entirety: government, municipalities, voivodships, services were enough to react, and only if they were insufficient could the state of the natural disaster be considered. I would like to remind you that it has not been introduced in similar situations in Poland, even after the floods of 2010, when the PO-PSL coalition ruled. You didn't introduce this state of natural disaster then either, and today you come back with ideas that wouldn't change anything, except for everything, and that there was no justification. It wouldn't change anything about that. With regard to these, as you say, delays, Mr, these first allowances are paid immediately, up to 6 000, and these larger allowances - after the calculation of the loss estimates. We simplified the mechanism for estimating losses and accelerated it by means of the fact that before it mattered only and were taken into account only those estimates made by valuers, entitled valuers of assets. And we introduced a simplification just after these storms, which is that the loss assessment committees could also do so, the experts also of course, but also the committees with the involvement of construction supervisors. Only of course, these committees have been set up a lot, they have acted intensively, but let us note that these losses have affected a lot of objects. Maybe I'll give you the numbers, because maybe they would be needed here to assess the situation that it couldn't be done in a very short time, one day or a week. It took a while. So 11 646 residential buildings and 10 357 economic buildings were damaged. Even with many active committees working intensively, it took some time, and these are funds, so they are paid on the basis of documents, based on what someone had to reliably estimate first. So that these larger allowances are paid in tranches, because they already need to be settled. They require bills, invoices. These are the funds for which someone is responsible - the one who signs decisions on the way, and mostly in the municipality is the head of the social assistance centre, because these benefits are paid on the basis of decisions issued by these centres, and there are certain conditions there. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the settlement of these allowances.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u79	Thank you very much. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: So that, Mr President, it was a storm that covered a large part of the country, there are many people, many families, many buildings, so it caused certain problems, of course. But I don't think he's entitled... Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: ...for no reason at all to say that there was any tardiness on the part of the government... Thank you very much. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: ...or that the government came in with insufficient help. That's not true. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Members Jarosław Gonciarz and Wojciech Szarama, the Law and Justice Club, on the sale of poorer quality food products in Central and Eastern Europe, to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. Please, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz asks a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u80	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! Media reports and consumers have shown for a long time that food produced by the same producers differs in quality, composition, consistency, smell, taste in terms of its subsequent sales on store shelves in Western Europe and Poland. Food often looks the same when it comes to packaging, but after consummation or, often, reading the composition of the product, it turns out that it differs unfortunately to the disadvantage of buyers in Poland. In view of this dual quality of consumer products, which we are undoubtedly dealing with, I would like to ask the Minister whether efforts are being made to ensure that the products that reach our shops are as good quality as those sold in western Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u81	Thank you very much. I ask you to answer the question of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Jack Bogucki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u82	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer the question of Members, I would like to inform you that the problem of double food quality has been raised by members of the Visegrad Group, by representatives of countries neighbouring Poland: the Czech Republic, Slovakia. Hungary and Slovenia also began to raise this problem, but they have also participated in this activity since the beginning of the Polish agricultural resort. Several meetings of the Visegrad Group have already been held at the level of agricultural ministers. Recently, a meeting was held called the Consumer Summit in Bratislava, where Prime Minister Beata Szydło took part. During this meeting, the Prime Minister, on behalf of the whole government, not only of the Minister for Agriculture himself, but of the whole government, strongly condemned the offer of products in the common market with varying quality characteristics depending on the country in which these products are offered. The problem is quite complicated because producers, especially producers offering products in many European and global markets, so it is corporations, large international companies, who are trying to explain this diversity by different consumer tastes, different consumer expectations. But the research that has been carried out so far in our neighbours' countries, of course very random research, because comparative material does not exist in this area, shows that at least some of these differences are not due to consumer habits, consumer expectations, but simply from an attempt to propose a brand that is recognizable, a brand that operates in the common market for consumers from Eastern Europe of a poorer quality of products. not always at a lower price. In Poland this problem is a little less visible in the case of food, because the vast majority of basic food hitting the Polish market comes from Polish, native companies not operating on world markets under the same brand. So, in the case of basic agri-food products, we do not see this problem, but of course this problem exists also in the case of the supply of global brands, pan-European brands to the Polish market. On request, e.g. Poland and other countries of the Visegrad Group, Eastern Europe, more broadly, because Slovenia is not a member of the Visegrad Group, the European Commission has addressed this problem. And the first such finding, which gives the opportunity to deal with this problem, concerns the development of a research system that would allow comparisons of their performance in individual countries and the exchange of information between inspection services, national inspections. Without such joint action at European level, we cannot deal with this problem because, necessarily, if we are talking about double quality, what goes on the Polish market does not reflect, in those other products present on the Polish market, products that need to be compared are on the markets of other countries. So in order for research to be comprehensive and wide-ranging, and to address the whole problem, it must be carried out in every country of the European Union and it must be universal. So that we are aware of this problem. Although this type of research has not been carried out in Poland so far, there have also been practically no complaints from consumers concerning agri-food products of double quality, but this does not mean that we as resort and our control services do not see or see this problem. This problem has been discussed several times in Poland, including in the public sector, but this concerns not agri-food products, but other market products, because we can deal with double quality not only in the agri-food sector, although in the agri-food sector this problem carries the greatest danger and has the greatest negative effects. However, it must be remembered that any product that enters the market of any European country, including Poland, must meet the quality requirements of EU legislation. So there is no situation here that there are products here that do not meet the requirements of European law and Polish law. We are talking about such a problem that under the brand recognizable, well-known, advertised in many countries other quality products come to the market of Western Europe, and other quality can reach the market of Eastern Europe, including the Polish market. And with this problem, the Ministry of Agriculture, but also the government as a whole [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's measured. We are pushing very hard on the European Commission to address this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u83	Thank you very much, Minister. And I would like to ask you an additional question from Mr Goncier.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u84	In view of the case of Slovakia, which in July threatened to suspend the import of food products of a quality worse than their equivalent sold in the same packaging in other countries, if the European Commission does not take decisive action, I would ask whether the Ministry was also considering taking such radical steps.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u85	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u86	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I answer the question asked by your Member. In the case of Poland at the moment, we have not considered such far-reaching actions. After all, we have examined European law and the law in force in Poland, but also in other countries, even in Slovakia, we have considered that it is not very possible at the moment to apply such sanctions which exclude any product because of the difference with an appropriate product on the market, such as German or Austrian, because mainly with these products, our southern neighbours compared products. We welcomed that the European Commission in this case in a relatively rapid time for the Commission, which is generally very slow - but there are cases that it is very fast in Poland, but in this case this is a positive example, because the ones I was talking about were negative examples, and here a positive example - she found funds, although for now it is only 1 million euros to carry out research on this problem. It means he's taking the problem pretty seriously, as it seems. Although there is a part of the European countries that are already questioning this type of research, the need for this type of research and are trying to bring everything to a ridicule by using the name of one of the products present on the market as an example that the quality of this product will not be addressed by the European Commission and Europe. It's not just one single example. As I said, in the case of Poland, the situation is so much better, that the basic agri-food products that we buy in shops come from Polish producers, from the Polish market, are not world brands and are often of higher quality than offered in other European markets, including Western Europe. Although the compositions of these products are also in European standards, Polish products are of higher quality, because they contain less harmful additives and often more natural raw materials produced by Polish farmers. However, there is such an assortment, especially regarding sweets or drinks and a few more groups of agri-food products, where, when reading labels, this phenomenon can be easily identified. Because if in the case of the same beverage, under the same brand, isoglucose is used to sweeten sugar in Poland, and in Western Europe sugar from sugar beet, sucrose, this is not in line with the expectations of the Polish consumer, it is only an attempt to reduce the cost of production of this product, and many studies indicate that isoglucose, glucose syrup, is more harmful than sugar from sugar beet production. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u87	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Members Sławomir Nitras and Rafał Trzaskowski, the Civic Platform Club, on the official visit of the President of Turkey to Poland. The question is addressed to the Foreign Minister. Please, Mr Sławomir Nitras.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u88	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On 17 October, the official visit to Poland took place in Warsaw by President Erdogan of Turkey. This is probably the strangest visit of the head of state since the visit of Soviet officials or Soviet Russia - that is probably how I should address you more - which took place in Poland. No one has met the President of Turkey officially, no constitutional member of the government. The President of Turkey has not met the Prime Minister, this meeting has been cancelled. Let me remind you that there was a coup in Turkey a year ago. Let me remind you that in Turkey 50,000. People are in prison. Let me remind you, 150,000. State officials have been dismissed from work. Let me remind you that more than 300 newspapers and television stations have been closed in Turkey. I will remind you that the European Union, the European Council at its last meeting, has been dealing with Turkey and is considering stopping accession negotiations, has cut funds for Turkey and, in fact, has fallen completely from the agenda on Turkey's membership of the European Union. Turkey's membership in the European Union in the current situation and even serious negotiations are impossible. The Union does not negotiate with people who keep political opponents in prison. And what happens in Warsaw? President Andrzej Duda supports Turkey's European aspirations and speaks directly of its clear support for Turkey in its European efforts. Guys, where do we live? You can clearly see the rift. The state as a government doesn't want to take responsibility for this visit, but you have to. Mr. Kuchciński's Marshal, who said that it was not necessary to present the government's information on this matter in the Seym, because it was the president who invited it, not the government. Is this the Polish President? Is this the Polish Sejm? Do we have one foreign policy? [[♪ The bell ♪]] According to the Constitution, is the government responsible for foreign policy? Please answer these questions. The whole of Europe, the European partners, are also waiting for what you will say to the Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u89	Thank you very much. Before giving the floor to a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Jack Czaputowicz, I wanted to welcome schoolchildren from the municipality of Porąbka with the authorities of the municipality and teachers. Welcome. [[Applause]] Now I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u90	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen, who have asked an important question about the official visit of the President of the Republic of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan to Poland! Perhaps I will answer in accordance with the order of problems which you have politely raised in your question. As far as the government party is concerned, there's no rift here. The government and the President of the Republic conduct a single foreign policy, which also confirms the participation of government representatives, constitutional ministers at various stages of the visit. Mr Witold Waszczykowski took part in talks in a narrow group, talks between Mr Andrzej Duda and Mr Erdogan, while Deputy Minister Joanna Wronecka took part in plenary sessions. In addition, ministers participated in the plenary sessions: Minister Elżbieta Rafalska and Minister Antoni Macierewicz. During this visit a number of agreements between Poland and Turkey were signed. It had a state character. At the invitation of President Andrzej Duda, the president of an important country arrived in Poland. I would like to say that this visit is a review, a response to President Bronisław Komorowski's visit to Ankara on 5 and 6 March 2014. As far as participation in President Erdogan's international meetings is concerned, we all know that he has many international visits, taking part in many multilateral meetings, e.g. He attended a meeting of the Heads of State and Government of NATO in Brussels in May this year, at the G20 Summit in Hamburg in July this year, at the 72nd session of the United Nations General Assembly in September this year. During this session, he met with France's president Emmanuel Macron, and later with the President of the United States, Donald Trump. He also paid a separate special visit to Washington on 15 and 17 May this year. In this case, I limit myself to visits, so to speak, in the Western cultural circle, because of course President Erdogan's participation in many other visits. He kindly drew attention to a change in the programme of the visit. It did happen because Prime Minister Beata Szydło did not meet with the President, which was planned in the original version of the programme. This was the result of the internal situation in Turkey. President Erdogan, on the news that six people were killed in a mine in Turkey, asked for a briefing. Therefore, both parties agreed that this conversation would take place at a different time. But I would like to add here that Prime Minister Beata Szydło met with President Erdogan on 14 May this year on the margins of the work of the Belt and Road Forum in Beijing. In other words, there is no justification for the argument that there is any difference in the conduct of foreign policy between the President of the Republic of Poland and the Government. When it comes to a very important point of substance concerning the position of the various European Union countries in relation to Turkey's form of cooperation with the European Union, there is indeed a rather lively discussion within the European Union. We can distinguish two groups of countries here. The first are those countries that question the current format of the European Union-Turkey relationship and are in favour of developing a new one. The second group, on the other hand, is those countries which are in favour of maintaining the accession negotiations. I would like to stress here strongly that the European Commission, the High Representative of Federica Mogherini, is in favour of continuing the accession negotiations. Poland belongs to this group of countries and supports the European Commission's position in this area. In accordance with the agreement of the Member States, accession negotiations have not been suspended, although de facto - it must be said - due to the internal situation in Turkey they have been frozen. Regardless of the position taken on the continuation of accession negotiations among Member States, there is consensus on assessing the strategic importance of the EU-Turkey relationship and on the absolute need to maintain dialogue. There is awareness of the importance of Turkey also as an important member of the North Atlantic Alliance. This differs Poland from many other countries of the European Union, which, let's be honest, have a different sense of security, i.e. They feel safe. Poland, as a country lying in the east of the European Union, has a greater sense of danger in central Europe and therefore attaches much greater importance to the importance of the North Atlantic Alliance for the security of our country. Turkey is also an important partner in energy diversification. We cannot abandon this part of the Turkish society, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which is pro-European. Finally, I would like to add one more sentence, your marshal, because I would like to say that it is not a secret that, at a closed meeting, President Andrzej Duda raised the issue of the internal situation in Turkey and the negative impact it has on accession talks with the European Union. The government shares the concern for respect for human rights in Turkey in the question of Mr Nitras and Mr Trzaskowski, but the role of the government is to use diplomatic instruments, peaceful conversations, not public criticism during the visit of an important partner of Poland and the European Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u91	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Sławomir Nitras for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u92	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! You can't say it's a result. or review after President Komorowski's visit, because it was before the coup d'état in Turkey. Things have changed a bit. You're an experienced diplomat enough to have to... And respect those who ask questions as well. You say there's no gap between the government and the president. It was me from this speaker who asked: What is the position of the Polish government on this issue? We have frozen negotiations, we have a country where democracy is not respected, and the Polish President - as I understand it, the government supports it - says: we are in favour of Turkey's accession to the European Union as soon as possible. I'd like an answer. Is the Polish government in favour of continuing negotiations and joining the Union as soon as possible? European solidarity. Minister, is there a European country in which President Erdogan paid a visit from the can? Please answer that question specifically. You're about to demand solidarity. [[♪ The bell ♪]] on Russia, and we are not in solidarity with the Union on Turkey. One last thing. Have you seen the headlines of the European newspapers in which it was written: President Erdogan's visit to Poland. Tutoring. Tutoring? I wanted to ask, "Who gave tutoring to whom? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u93	Thank you very much, sir. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u94	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There are repeated important questions. I would like to make it clear once again: there are different positions in the European Union. There is a discussion on how best to establish relations with this important partner of the European Union today, because there is no doubt that this is a very important partner and that the situation is difficult, that the situation regarding respect for human rights and democratic standards is bad. We agree with the opposition on this issue. Now the question is, what's next? I said there are two positions. I said it clearly, and I will say it again: yes, Poland believes that it is impossible to close the opportunity for Turkish society to join the European Union, provided, of course, that the required standards for respect for human rights and democratic standards are met. But we can't assume that's not possible. We should encourage the Turkish state and society to move in this direction. There are two positions: break up contacts - let's think about what will happen when it comes to the strength and coherence of the North Atlantic Alliance, that is the additional condition of Poland resulting from its location and sense of security or lack of security, completely different from in Spain, France and even Germany - or rather continue these talks. I do not address the issue of press relations, but I would also like to recall the visit of the President of the United States, Donald Trump, who visited Warsaw as his first visit to Europe. Poland was criticised, but we all thought it was an important success, and a few months later President Macron tried, effectively, to get President Donald Trump to pay a visit to Paris, which took place. I said in my speech that President Erdogan met with President Macron on the occasion of his visit. These conversations are ongoing. Poland should not lose the chance to be a bridge, a middleman between the European Union... Poland shares the values of the European Union, Poland shares the concerns of the European Union, but this bridge should be preserved. Also Poland, not only France. We understand the very difficult relationship between Turkey and Germany for this reason. We wish that these relationships would improve. Also through our foreign policy and our diplomacy [[♪ The bell ♪]] We will seek to improve Germany's relations with Turkey - on Germany's side - and hence the European Union's relations with Turkey. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u95	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Marek Polak, Ewa Filipiaak, Zbigniew Biernat and Jarosław Szlachetka, the Law and Justice Club, on the prospects of building the S52 expressway. The Beskydy Integration Road. The question is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. Please, the first question is asked by Mr Marek Polak and Mrs Ewa Filipiak. The first Mr. Marek Polak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u96	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! 10 years ago, the Minister of Transport in the Government of Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński decided to build the Beskidzka Integration Road, expanding its parameters from the planned one-day road to the two-day expressway and its range from the so-called. buried in Bielsko-Biała. The inclusion of the government by the Polish-PSL coalition in 2007 froze this initiative for 8 years, giving neither the opportunity nor the hope of its implementation. Only the government, Prime Minister Beata Szydło, returned to this concept by entering it in the programme of construction of national roads and motorways. An environmental decision has also been issued for this task. In the meantime, Mayor Wadowic challenged this decision by calling into question the process of the long-awaited implementation of this long-awaited investment by both residents and local investment authorities. That is why I wanted to ask the Minister, "Can the mayor's actions delay the construction of this transport route, and what could the consequences be? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u97	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u98	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! In addition to Mr Mark Polak's question, I would like to remind you that a few years ago, the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways in Cracow has completed the consultation process. Discussions, consultations among the inhabitants of Kęt, Andrychow, Wadowice, Calvary, Lanckorony lasted several years, were selected from up to 11 variants, but finally a few years ago the general management decided to make the final decision and chose one variant of the BDI course. The discussion and consultation phase has already been completed and the construction of this investment could be started. The PO-PSL government did not start implementing this investment so needed and the time was wasted. Now, thanks to Prime Minister Beata Szydło, the road has been entered into the national road construction programme for the years 2014 to 2023. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, I have a question for the Minister: When will the construction start? This is what the citizens of the corked cities between Bielsko-Biała and Głogoczów ask for. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u99	Thank you very much. Before giving the floor to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, Minister Mark Chodkiewicz - I invite you - I wanted to welcome the young people from the primary school in Łaza Dębowiecki. We warmly welcome you and thank you for listening to the debate in the Seym. [[Applause]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u100	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We confirm, of course, the Beskidska Integration Road is in the plan of the national road construction programme for the years 2014 to 2023 and actually the effort of this government was included in this programme. I would also like to point out that thanks to the government's efforts, the road gained a higher class - to the express road class from the previous lower class. This road has also been included in the Council of Ministers regulation on motorways and expressways networks, which is another kind of recognition of the validity of this road throughout the programme. Unfortunately, the expenditure limit increased to 135 billion, as we would like to stress, is still insufficient to finance all the projects that are on this list. In order to achieve all these tasks, it requires about 200 billion PLN, which is why 65 billion PLN is missing for this programme. So that the construction of the Beskidz Integration Road, which is included in the programme, depends on additional funds being raised. It's kind of a general story. However, this does not mean that the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways does not do preparatory work. I would like to say that, on the basis of option 3, which was recommended, a request was made for a decision on environmental conditions and a decision was issued on environmental conditions by the Regional Environment Directorate in September 2016. Since the beginning of preparations for this investment, unfortunately, numerous protests have been raised against the course of the investment. Especially loud were the protests about the Beskidz integration road at Wadowice altitude. For many years, the authorities of Wadowice, as well as local residents and associations have indicated that the southern option preferred by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways is, in their view, irrational. Therefore, the preparatory work for this investment took so long. Currently we are at the stage of appeals against the environmental decision issued in 2016. These appeals have been made, this is the procedure, to the General Directorate for Environmental Protection in Warsaw, which is currently in the process of proceeding the appeal. In recent years, it has called on the General Directorate of National Roads to submit additions and explanations which have been provided. At this stage, the time limit for handling the matter by the DG Environment was set at the end of October, but it is not certain that it will be possible to resolve the matter within the deadline. All these positions and information are currently analysed in detail by the Directorate-General for Environment. At this stage of the process, according to an estimate by the General Directorate for Construction, a whole section of the road could be carried out in the years 2022 to 2025. The choice recommended by the mayor of this northern route could undoubtedly extend the implementation process for years to come. The local spatial development program reserved the Beskidzki Integration Road and designated an area on the southern side of the city of Wadowice, as proposed by the general management. A major problem in the Northern Option would be to move this road through areas under strict protection under Natura 2000. At present, it is difficult to determine what position the General Environment Director could take on this issue. In view of the implementation of this investment in the option planned by your mayor, an additional problem could also be the issue of expropriations, demolitions which were never planned for this investment in the Northern option. Finally, I would like to confirm that the government considers this investment to be one of the priorities. The actions taken over the years have been strongly intensified by the current government. However, this investment is not expected to be implemented quickly. Of course, we are looking at further preparatory work, but we cannot say for sure that the current national road construction programme will fully implement this investment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u101	Thank you very much. I'm asking you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u102	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, The Beskid integration road is the only chance to develop and improve road safety in the case of constantly blocked cities such as Andrychów, Wadowice, Kalwaria Zebrzydowska and Kęta. Therefore, please tell us how local authorities could contribute to speeding up the implementation of this investment, because they are looking forward to it, because it is a real necessity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u103	Thank you. I ask Mr Zbigniew Biernat a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u104	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The Beskid integration road is a very important way to complement the express road network between S7 and S1. As has already been stressed here, the public consultation, widely conducted by the General Directorate, has already been completed. Therefore, my question goes in the following direction. If a final environmental decision is reached, will the General Directorate and Ministry take action to phase out this important investment for Poland? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u105	Thank you very much. I ask you, Mr. Undersecretary of the State of Mark Chodkiewicz, to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u106	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say that the cost of building the entire Beskydy road is estimated by the general management today at about PLN 4 billion. I don't think local governments could be involved. Of course, we'll continue to prepare it. I was going to say that on the reserve list this road is in third place, so that in case of savings we can accelerate. Of course, if we get a decision, we will continue to prepare this investment for implementation. That's the plan. Thank you very much. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u107	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Andrzej Gawron, Ms Anna April, Mr Jerzy Paul and Mr Ryszard Bartosik, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will ask a question about the possibilities that the National Property Resources Act opens for Poles. The question is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Mr Tomasz Żuchowski will answer. The first question is asked by Mr Andrzej Gawron and Mr Ryszard Bartosik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u108	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, The statistics are ruthless. As a country, we are at the gray end of the month as regards the number of apartments per statistical resident, citizen. Apartment is a basic good, a value that helps the family grow, and has an impact on the standard of living, also has a positive impact on demographics. Especially when it comes to less wealthy people who cannot afford to buy an apartment or build a house, the state should help them with such measures to provide them with access to this apartment, a cheap apartment, with low rent, preferably with an option of redemption. prepared in the Ministry and adopted by the Sejm Act on National Resources Real estate provides such tools to achieve this, but whether or not it will happen depends on the smooth implementation of this law. Can the Minister describe how this law is being implemented? Is there any chance in the near future that the first low rent apartments could be built?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to ask the Minister how cooperation with local government units is presented, which field of cooperation is given by the National Property Resources Act, and also whether it has already been carried out in accordance with the rules laid down in the Act, the first tenders for the construction of apartments for rent. If not, how long will these tenders be held? Minister! I would also like to ask you to explain whether only the State Treasury land is transferred to the National Property Resources, or whether it is merely information about such land. It is also heard that under the law the land of the State Forests will be received and transferred. Could we also get information in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u110	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u111	Dear Marshal, High Seym! In response to the questions asked about the possibilities offered by the National Property Resources Act in the context of the achievement of the most important objective, namely to build housing for people who today cannot afford to buy their own apartment due to lack of savings of adequate amount or credit, I would like to present the following information. The National Property Resources Act entered into force on 11 September of this year. It gives a number of legal instruments and tools that allow for effective, first, real estate, so to speak, to be available, secondly, to be used for housing purposes in different formats. When it comes to the question of the first question, which is how the organization looks today, it is a good thing that we have one and a half months since the entry into force of this law. At this stage we are in the organisational phase of this entity, a new legal person, i.e. the National Property Resource. Its headquarters are located in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction on the fifth floor of the building. About the so-called. location information, we are at the stage of preparation of all technical equipment for the functioning of this entity, i.e. the necessary tooling in terms of staff equipment. That's another line. Today, recruitments have started in terms of specific employment positions, i.e. specialists who will be these real estates in a proper way from an analytical point of view. We have the necessary legal tools for the functioning of this entity. In the context of questions concerning the use of land and the possibilities offered by the Act, I would like to say that as of today, according to the provisions of the Act within 60 days of the entry into force of the Law, local governments with State Treasury land are obliged to provide information on these land. Within 60 days, when we are talking about land within the administrative boundaries of cities, areas that are currently intended for residential construction, and as far as rural areas are concerned, this time is 180 days. After that date there are 30 days to verify this data through the voivodships. In order to allow for the uniform transmission of this information, including in digital versions, in particular as the considerable resources from previous perspectives have been involved in the digitisation of real estate services, we have prepared a regulation which entered into force on 15 September this year and which is the standard of transmission of this information. It has been consulted with local authorities, so here this issue, with regard to the consistency of documents, is clear and clear. Moreover, we held many consultation meetings showing the mechanism. As far as this land is concerned, as I mentioned, due to the statutory fact, from the statutory point of view, the first information, I think, will flow within the deadline after 11 November this year, which is really in 3 weeks. Another point is that these properties will be analysed in a format that will enable the launch of tenders from the point of view of location, the potential of media supply, weapons of land, communication. I think that we will launch tenders at the beginning of next year because of the aspect of the formal and legal treatment of these properties, because we also want these properties to be, as to say, unprotected by any physical or legal defects. Another issue is the matter of land and cooperation with local governments. So the first thing: we asked through the voivodships for local authorities, especially among the municipalities, to disseminate information about the potential of investment property, which are in municipalities, for housing purposes. Today we have more than 700 properties, the local districts' own land, which were indicated by the municipalities in the context of their interest in the location of these apartments. We are at the stage of talks with dozens of municipalities when it comes to specific locations. I think that in the near future we will be able to conclude appropriate, so to speak, factual and physical agreements on this subject with specific local authorities in the area of housing construction. At the same time, we also spoke to entities such as Poczta Polska and PKP SA, in respect of land with which these two entities are owned, which could be used in the formula for payment or free of charge, if necessary for residential purposes. That's the list we have, too. I think we are in the final phase of the agreement on the possibility of using these land, including built-up land, for housing purposes. In the context of local governments, for information purposes, we have created a special website for KZN, which at the moment allows for good, so to speak, distribution of knowledge in this area from the point of view of the local government, from the point of view of the citizen, from the point of view of the entrepreneur. It will be soon, I think tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, a survey when it comes to locations interested, and a whole package of possible questions and answers. We also hold consultations in the regions. We held consultations in Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, in Opolskie voivodship, in Świętokrzyskie voivodship. The next trips will be covered by the Śląskie voivodship and the next voivodship, i.e. in short, we have planned Podkarpackie voivodship, further voivodship, Zachodniopomorskie voivodship. So I think that in all these voivodships we're going to have this kind of meeting with local governments, with entrepreneurs, to interest them. I think that from the point of view of local governments, as regards the talks we are having, the effects of these actions today and after the New Year will be visible. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u112	Thank you, Minister. Please, the additional question will be asked by Anna April.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u113	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a quick question. In addition to the tools contained in the National Property Resources Act or the loan subsidy scheme, the Ministry provides for other activities, e.g. in the area of individual housing? Construction relief was used to be very successful. Maybe there are plans to go back to these good solutions. Or are there any other forms you're thinking about to support certain solutions that would simply support the construction and development of housing? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u114	Dear Marshal, (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Membership! In the context of this question, one sentence more in the previous format. The State Treasury, which we want to use for housing purposes, is intended to cover both multi-family and single-family construction. We want dualism, sustainable development here. Today, looking at the building permits register, we see an increase over 40% in relation to the period before even 5 years. As far as interest in single-family construction is concerned, it is the land of the State Treasury that we will launch for these purposes. As regards the issue of stimulating the investment market, I very much agree with the Member that this is an important issue. We have been really working on it for more than a year, discussing with various kinds of environments about specific economic analyses, from the point of view of relationships, i.e. some kind of stimulation of this market in the form that has happened, let's say, originally, in the form of payment of an appropriate amount of money invested for investors, so that it is economically tight. I hope... Even before coming here to a meeting in the Seym, I was at one of these meetings where it was analyzed by entrepreneurs. These analyses are ongoing. I hope that in the near future we will also be able to put forward proposals for solutions that, in short, will further stimulate construction, also in the context of services, not only in the context of providing housing, but also for those who have housing today, but want to refurbish, invest. I think that at this point in time these actions, first of all, will allow us to mobilise the potential, as we would say, to involve our own resources and, secondly, at the same time, to contribute to an even more effective fight against the so-called. The gray zone, because then we will have dualism in the form of specific settlements, so this form of paying under the table will, I think, also be eliminated in this phase. I hope that we will also be able to present these actions in this package. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u115	Thank you very much. Then let's move on to the next question. Mr Waldemar Andzel and Mr Dariusz Starzycki will ask a question about the development programme of childcare institutions up to 3 years old. The question is addressed to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. You will be answered by the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Elizabeth Rafalska. Please, Mr Waldemar Andzel is the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The current government has introduced changes to the existing programme, but further modification and stepping up efforts to increase institutional childcare to the age of 3. The development programme of the care institution for the youngest children assumes financial support for municipalities in order to increase the availability of institutional forms of care for children up to the age of 3 as well as to improve the standards of care and to stimulate the professional activity of parents and carers. Not much more than 17% today The municipalities benefit from this form of funding for care. Within 6 years of the implementation of the programme, by the end of October 2016, 3400 institutions entered in the register of crèches and children's clubs and a list of daily carers were established. In comparison, only 511 daycare and daycare units operated in 2010. A total of about 93.5 thousand were created. places of care, which means that such care was covered by 9.2% children under the age of 3. This figure is insufficient, as may be shown by the fact that 34 000 were missing in 2016. places for children. In view of the above, I ask the Minister to answer the following question: Are there any plans for further changes and extension of the programme's scope, in particular for municipalities that have not yet benefited from financial support for care under the "Maluch+" programme, and if the funding for this programme is increased? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u117	Thank you, sir. I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! The Government of Law and Justice attaches great importance to creating good working conditions for Polish families, including the possibility of reconciling the roles of parenthood and work. Therefore, three times will be added to the development of childcare facilities for the youngest children in 2018. What is very important is that we give our parents a choice about how to take care of them. This was shown by the CBOS study. When, after the introduction, five hundred were asked how the funds would be spent, some parents said that these funds could be used to pay for the place, the stay of the child in the nursery, because sometimes in the local daycare center they are lower, and in the private nursery they are higher. We know that there are barriers that make it difficult to reconcile these roles, to make decisions about parenting. One of these barriers, in addition to concerns about the labour market, wage growth and employment security, was the lack of care institutions. Therefore, the government, knowing about this difficult situation, decided that in 2018 it would allocate PLN 450 million for this purpose. In 2014, it was 100 million, in the next 2 years - 150 million. There are 3800 care institutions throughout Poland. They, as the Member said, provide care for approximately 100,000. children. But let's remember that 70% Polish self-governments do not have even one proposal, any institution of care for a small child. We just want to change that, hence in this proposal of ours, in this new program of ours, an offer which is addressed to local governments. Let us remember that providing care for the youngest is the task of the municipalities themselves, but through financial support we want to encourage these local authorities to set up crèches. In 2015, i.e. after we took over the government, we changed the rules in force in this programme. This allowed us to increase the number of places created for the youngest of the planned around 3,000. up to 5600 in 2016 The change was in 2015. This year, they are likely to be created by 10 and 12 thousand. This shows what is the increase in the number of newly created sites. If we are talking about 2018 forecasts, we hope that three times the increase in expenditure will result in a significant increase in newly created sites. What is also very important, ladies and gentlemen, is that the child's stay fee is not so high that it becomes a barrier payment. Because then parents calculate that basically the child's daycare fee is so high that it is difficult for them for financial reasons. So the government will add as much as 80% grants for the establishment of a nursery or a children's club. We're talking about secure resources here. Of course, everything before the High House, because these are proposals for the budget, they must be accepted by Parliament. But we hope that such a goal, such expectations of Polish families and local governments will be met. Our program has already been announced. It is an open competition for tenders with November dates for the submission of these tenders. Why do I stress that we're doing this now? Because it was one of the allegations of the Supreme Audit Chamber, which said that too late the announcement of the competition of offers causes that local governments or other entities, natural persons, legal persons cannot benefit from this or meet the need to settle by the end of the year. We do it as soon as possible, and definitely before in previous years. Due to the fact that the financial assembly is double: part of the money is purely budget, and 200 million are labour funds, we also take into account factors related to unemployment, which are in the district or local government concerned, youth unemployment, up to 30 years of age, and unemployment of the second, next age group, up to 49 years of age, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because today, women are also having babies a little bit later than they were 30 years old. We very much hope that it will be an attractive offer for local governments, that it will interest them, because today there is definitely a need to create such places and finance them, even though it is a task of the local government itself. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u119	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like an additional question from Mr Dariusz Starzycki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u120	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is very good information for Polish families - the announcement of such a significant increase in funds for this program. Various proposals from day care providers are being made under this programme. Among other things, one of these proposals is to convert the competitive funds into grants, which would facilitate the operation of care providers, especially in the long term. Therefore, I have a question: Does the Ministry consider such a solution? Those who already run daycare are also so concerned that there will be less money in relation to newly created daycare facilities for those who are currently running day care.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u121	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Certainly local authorities that carry out their own tasks would like to receive subsidies for these tasks and a lot of support from the state budget, but I stress that this is a task of their own and local authorities have a stake in taxes. The government has tasks that it needs to identify with, and it needs to know that these are tasks of the local government and that what it does is for families who live in the local government. On our part, if we have a government program, this program is specifically, precisely addressed. This is not the case with grants that provide support to all local authorities. It is therefore a flexible instrument that allows us to address resources, e.g. to those self-governments with lower incomes are poorer, where there is higher unemployment, and there is high unemployment for women who cannot return to the labour market after the birth of the child, because despite the very good situation in the labour market in Poland there are districts where unemployment is still high, two-digit. The government programme gives us this opportunity to react flexibly. Thus, the local government must identify itself with the expectations of its residents and families in its territory, create various forms of care for young children. In the case of many local governments, this is already the case, ladies and gentlemen. Some local governments have their own, beautiful care facilities, with a high standard, others create non-public institutions, sign contracts, finance children's stay, and therefore we stand consistently on the position that we are giving more money to jump - I note: three times more money - and precisely define the purpose of what we want to do. We have also introduced important from the point of view of local authorities and from the point of view of those who carry out this activity amenities, which remove barriers to the formation of daycare. I'm talking about giving up the need to have two rooms, just as it's been accepted in other countries. Today, children who benefit from nursery care are not little children, semi-annual or several months old, most often they are children over the age of one, while the younger ones are Definitely less. We socialize this process, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because we introduce parental advice, we introduce nutritional standards, we also address additional safety issues. And that is our duty: to create a good legal framework for the establishment of childcare facilities for young children. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u123	Thank you very much, Minister. And I'm asking you to ask me another question. Members Bartosz Józwiak, Tomasz Romankowski and Sylwester Khrushcz raise the question about the right to pensions for Ukrainians resulting from the social security agreement with Ukraine. The question is addressed to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Marcin Zielenecki, will answer. Please, the question is asked by Mr Bartosz Józwiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u124	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Our question is caused by what appeared in the media, but it is really a consequence, as we suspect, of an agreement concluded in 2012 between the Polish People's Republic and Ukraine on social security, drawn up in Kiev. The questions are as follows. Is it true that Poland is obliged to pay pensions to Ukrainian workers working in Poland? Second question: Will this pension be paid even if the period of work in Poland was a few months? Did the Polish party request that the Ukrainian party compensate for such retirement expenses even in cases where this work in Poland lasted for several months, and the Polish ZUS would have to pay the employee a minimum pension, i.e. approximately about 1000 PLN gross? If not, I'm asking you another question. Why should we still pay out money from the Polish taxpayer or from the ruined Polish pension system? Next question: Did the Ministry calculate the real cost of paying these pensions to Ukrainian workers, given the dynamic increase in the number of Ukrainian workers employed at the moment in Poland? And the last question as part of that first question. Do you, because I understand that this agreement would ensure that Polish repatriates pay their pensions in Ukraine, calculated quantitatively and quantitatively how many Polish repatriates would benefit from it? What would be the amount of money paid to these repatriates by the Ukrainian party? Conversely, what costs the Polish budget will have to bear in terms of paying pensions for Ukrainians, assuming dynamic growth, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What's that gonna be? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u125	Thank you. And the Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The concerns related to the payment of Polish pensions by the Social Insurance Institution for periods worked in Ukraine are unjustified, and the press information that appeared not so long ago, that Poland, according to the Polish-Ukrainian social security agreement signed in 2012, will finance minimum pensions of PLN 1000 for workers from Ukraine, do not find confirmation. Polish pensions can be granted and paid by the Social Security Office only for periods of insurance achieved in the territory of the Republic of Poland, i.e. for the periods for which contributions to pension insurance were paid to the Polish social security system. It is not possible to pay pensions from the Polish social security system for periods of insurance or employment that have been achieved in Ukraine. For Ukrainian periods of insurance, the Ukrainian insurance institution is obliged to consider the right to retirement and the possible granting of this benefit. This is in line with the principle that each State pays pension benefits for periods of insurance carried out in accordance with the legislation of that State. Therefore, a person who has periods of insurance achieved in two countries may receive a pension from each of these countries, provided that he fulfils the conditions required to acquire a right to benefit in accordance with the laws of the State concerned, e.g. This is a condition for reaching the retirement age or having a minimum insurance internship. As regards minimum pensions, the Polish-Ukrainian agreement does not directly regulate minimum pensions. Nor does the Agreement regulate the increase of pensions paid to the minimum amounts of pensions in force in the country concerned. Therefore, in this respect, the citizens of Ukraine apply, in accordance with the principle of equal treatment, the same rules as those of all other persons entitled to Polish pensions under Polish internal rules, regardless of their nationality. This means that in order to obtain an increase to the amount of the Polish minimum pension, the conditions laid down by law must be fulfilled. Even after they have been fulfilled in the case of pensions granted under the provisions of international agreements, the increase shall be made in such a way that the sum of the Polish pension and the foreign benefit is not less than the amount of the Polish minimum pension. The amount of the increase is therefore dependent on the amount of the Polish pension granted and the amount of the foreign pension, but it will never reach the amount of PLN 1000. In addition, any increase in the Polish or foreign pension results in a reduction in the amount of the increase. To put it simply, it is not possible for Ukrainian periods of employment to pay a Polish minimum pension of PLN 1000. Here I would like to say that this agreement with Ukraine, which was signed in 2012, which entered into force in 2014, can be said to refer to certain standards which are already established and which are applicable in EU law. I am thinking here of the four principles of coordination of social security systems set out in Regulation 883/2004, including the summation of insurance periods achieved in the various Member States of the European Union. As regards the part of the question on the financial consequences that may be covered by the provisions of the international agreement, we have carried out a quick analysis of the costs that our social security system is bearing today in connection with the implementation of this agreement, as regards the question of Members. Total amount of aid to the minimum paid in October this year by the branch of the Zakład Ubezpieczeń Społecznych in Rzeszów, that is the branch which implements the provisions of the bilateral Polish-Ukrainian agreement, amounted to PLN 111 934,63. We do not have data on the amount of aid for individual pensioners, but if we divide the amount I have provided by the number of people receiving this payment, and this number is 263 people, the average amount of such aid is PLN 425. As far as I'm concerned, [[♪ The bell ♪]] of the financial consequences of the whole agreement, of course they were presented to the High House on the occasion of work on the bill aimed at ratifying this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u127	Thank you, Minister. And I'm asking you for an extra question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u128	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Thank you for your answer, a large part of our doubts have been resolved. On the other hand, from what the Minister has passed here, it appears that it is the Polish side that continues to pay for these minimes. Although this is a small amount at the moment, it is, of course, with the scale of the increase in the number of Ukrainian workers appearing in Poland, which is very large, this dynamic is one of the biggest, the second one is the Belarusian minority, with time it can generate very important costs for the Social Insurance Institution. This remains the question whether the Polish party intends to renegotiate this agreement in some way, so that the Ukrainian party would participate in these subsidies, not that it would burden only the Polish taxpayer. Relevant question number two. Will such agreements, which would aim, as in this case is emphasized, also help for Polish repatriates in obtaining pensions in Ukraine, are planned, for example, with Belarus, where we also have a similar minority, also from there we can have repatriates, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Not to mention countries like Russia or Kazakhstan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u129	Thank you. And the Minister, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer the Members' questions, I will say this: we are dealing with a bilateral agreement, i.e. an agreement based on mutual commitments, an agreement which also applies to Polish citizens taking up work in Ukraine. I am aware that in terms of the number of Poles taking up work in Ukraine and the number of Ukrainians taking up work in our country, perhaps these are divergent sizes, I would say. On the other hand, we must not forget that the growing number of Ukrainian citizens taking up their jobs in Poland, and this figure is about 275 thousand. - I am talking about a group of people who are registered in the Polish pension insurance system - pays social security contributions to the Polish social insurance system, right? So, at this stage at which we are at the moment, and it has been a total of 3 years since the entry into force of this law, I would say, however, that the amount of expenditure to cover the costs of this pension equalisation to the amount of the minimum pension benefit that I have provided and the amount that the Social Insurance Fund achieves in respect of pension contributions paid by employees of Ukrainian origin is also incomparable. That's how I'd answer that question. With regard to the second question, which concerned a possible agreement with Belarus, we are actually at a stage where negotiations with the Belarusian party on a bilateral social security agreement have been properly concluded. I'm talking about working negotiations. The whole procedure for signing and ratifying such an agreement awaits us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u131	Thank you very much, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. High Izbo! The competent committees have submitted a report on the draft Parliamentary Law on the amendment of the Repetition Act and the Foreigners Act. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information on the state of implementation of the Law on the Restoration of the Age will be discussed at this session of the Sejm, on which Parliamentary Club Law and Justice brought the presentation. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, representatives of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Ursula Rusecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister! Yesterday it was two years since the parliamentary elections, when the Poles entrusted Law and Justice with the implementation of the programme of good change. Restoring the retirement age is one of the flagship electoral promises of both presidential and parliamentary, also in line with the exposé that was made by Prime Minister Beata Szydło. The previous Seym with the votes of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party basically pushed through without public consultation or a referendum expected by Poles on this matter by amending the bill raising the retirement age to 67 for men and women. The draft Act of 11 May 2012 not only caused the need to work at an age for some Poles above their health opportunities and productivity, but also introduced many complex transitional provisions. The decision to restore the previous retirement age is to restore faith in the words of politicians, in the fact that promises can also be kept after the elections. Restoring the retirement age has become a fact. From 1 October 2017, the minimum retirement age shall be 60 years for women and 65 years for men. It is generally known that a number of factors need to be considered when determining the general retirement age, which take into account the biological circumstances of the ageing process, in order to determine in the most meaningful way the age limit at which insurance is mostly unable to work efficiently. The retirement age also allows you to manage the proportion between the insurance period, i.e. the period of work, and the period of taking the benefit in such a way that the rest period does not start or too late, because then the pension is a fiction, the insured does not have the possibility to enjoy the rest, nor too early, because then the cost of the pension insurance would be too high. Following the flagship request of Law and Justice, i.e. once the freedom to choose and reduce the retirement age has been restored, each insured person shall decide on the time when he/she has exercised his/her right to retirement and to terminate his/her professional activity depending on his/her individual health, material, family and occupational situation. The entity who took the burden of implementing the Act is the Social Insurance Institution, and the end of the first month after the entry into force of the Act is the right time for the first summary. I have a question, Minister: How is the implementation of the bill going? Have the black scenarios concerning the inability of the Social Insurance Institution to implement the Act been fulfilled? Are the apocalyptic visions of a breakdown in the labour market following a decrease in the retirement age? Are our pensions safe? What is the financial situation of the Social Insurance Fund? Thank you very much. Please answer me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u133	Thank you. I ask the Minister to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As of 1 October 2017, the retirement age was restored until the end of 2012, i.e. the age of 60 for women and 65 for men. The legislative initiative was taken by President Andrzej Duda, but let me remind you that during the debate, an extremely turbulent debate in the Polish parliament, when the government of Donald Tusk extended the retirement age of Poles to 67 years old, extended the retirement age of women by 7 years, balancing this age with the age of men, Jarosław Kaczyński said that if Law and Justice win elections, the retirement age will be restored. And that word, that word that obliges us to restore the retirement age, we kept up with it. This social agreement, because then it was a clear message for Poles who did not accept the extension of retirement age, was completed. It is also important to stress the particular role played by the trade unions, played by the "Solidarity" who protested when they tried to organise a referendum on this issue. Since October 1st, we've restored this age. We are talking about the fact that the aim of this reform is to enable every insured person to make an independent decision on the moment of termination of his or her employment. So we say that we define a minimum age when we can exercise the right to a pension. The minimum, flexible retirement age does not force us, ladies and gentlemen, to complete our work. Some are trying to say that we push women out of the labour market and make them retire. No, we tell them that we ourselves - I'm talking about women - can make a decision at a certain minimum age when we end our professional activity. We make an individual, rational decision about the time when we can use the acquired pension right. We would also like to make it clear that it was unfair to increase the retirement age in a situation of a completely fragmented labour market, a market that had a high percentage of people working on garbage contracts, without social security, high unemployment and a very high indicator of people not working at the age of 55, so those who were waiting for the retirement age to be acquired by the end of 2012. The burden of implementing this reform, which she also spoke about in her speech, rested and continues to rest on the Social Insurance Institution. Today we already know that when it comes to accepting applications, issuing decisions, but also about what preceded the introduction of the restored retirement age, this period of July and August, when pension advisors gave hundreds of thousands of advice, the Social Insurance Institution fulfilled it perfectly. I thank the President of Uścińska, Prof. Gertrud Uścińska and all the colleagues of the Social Insurance Institution who had so much to worry about, but they fulfilled all these obligations. The Social Insurance Institution has not worked for more than an hour, employees are rewarded or paid better than ever before. In that case, a few more information. Since 1 September 2017, the Social Insurance Institution has started receiving these applications. After the first week or the first two or three days, when these applications were very many, the rate of submission of these applications decreased, but the impact of 279 224 applications was noted by 23 October, so-called. initial applications. It must be said that more than 400 000 were entitled to benefit from this restored retirement age. The plant issues decisions and in the first 3 weeks, from 2 to 20 October, a total of more than 168 thousand were completed. pension cases of general retirement age, including 163 201 pension cases of the Law reducing retirement age. What does it look like in a gender-by-gender structure? The proposals were made by 94 545 women, men were less than 68 656 men. And now that there were questions about the implementation of this age reform, the question of the aspect of the activity of people of retirement age and their loss from the labour market, I will tell you what the structure of the decisions made is. 46 603 decisions are decisions issued for active persons. This represents 28.6% applications submitted. 37 283 decisions were issued for persons taking other benefits from the Social Security Office, i.e. persons receiving pensions who have not taken up employment or have taken up them to a limited extent. That's 22,8%. 27 433 decisions are decisions issued for persons receiving a pre-retirement benefit. This pre-retirement benefit, ladies and gentlemen, amounts to PLN 1 1040 and was previously much lower. And those people who took a pre-retirement benefit, that's 16.8%. But, ladies and gentlemen, as many as 51 882 decisions were made for the so-called group. other persons, i.e. persons who were deprived of benefits, which could have been registered at county labour offices, but without the right to benefits, so we are basically talking about a group of people who did not have income sources, who did not have the right to benefits. And it was 31.8%. in this structure, 100%. So it has not come true for this day, ladies and gentlemen, because, of course, the reform and the submission of proposals continues - this is what it looks like today, but we can already say it - these black scenarios of people who thought that the restoration of the retirement age would mean the outflow of hundreds of thousands of workers from the Polish labour market, from a market where we have a very low level of unemployment, where we are beginning to lack hands to work. Looking at the structure of the decisions made, we see today that a large proportion of these people were outside the labour market. So there is no justification for saying that these eligible 400,000. It was 400,000 people. people who have worked, and if they retire, it will be a loss that will not be completed. We can tell you how we know how we got this data. Some of these people have not paid a single contribution to the Social Insurance Fund in the last year. That's why we have that information. What does the amount of these benefits look like? The amount of benefits varies, for women is PLN 1627,11, for men - 2791,24 zł. And, ladies and gentlemen, if anyone were trying to suggest that the amount of these pensions is because of [[♪ The bell ♪]] Laws and Justice, I'm going to say that the pension is based on all the previous professional achievements, how much we made and how long we worked, how long we worked, how many breaks we had. I will also say that by restoring the previous retirement age, we have introduced the limit of the traineeship required to achieve a minimum pension of 20 years for women and 25 for men. At an extended retirement age, it was 22 and 25. So some of the women who did not have the required internship and did not achieve it at an extended retirement age will now have the right to this although not very high, but still a fixed salary, which is a minimum pension. It is better to have some low benefits than not have any benefits. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u135	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would one of the ladies and gentlemen of the House still like to sign up for the floor? If not, I'm closing the list of speakers. I'm opening a discussion. And Mrs Cicholska will be the first to speak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u136	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! A society with great relief, or even, I would say, has welcomed information about the restoration of the retirement age for women of 60 years, for men of 65 years. I see a lot of interest in those people who come to my office and want to know what their future retirement benefits will be. I therefore have a question for the Minister: What is the information situation in the various voivodships and are the ZUS field offices prepared to receive such a large number of people interested in the calculation of pension benefits? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u137	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Drozd.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u138	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We have heard a lot today about the positives of the law, and about how thoughtful and consulted the Poles change, safe for the state budget, but you have not mentioned in a word how important it is to make such a decision to take into account the dependency needed to make a rational, responsible, not populist decision, so that the number of people paying contributions is falling year by year and the number of people paying benefits is definitely increasing, that the reduction in the retirement age will make the contribution years shorter compared to the increasing life expectancy, which means in the future starving pensions and drastic tax increases that Poles, not the US, will take on themselves. I understand, also listening to the Prime Minister, that you have considered all these aspects, because it was the Prime Minister who said that these changes are the result of listening to the voice of ordinary Poles, that you are doing this so that Poles do not lose their sense of security and stability. How did it happen that you did not hear the voices of hundreds of thousands of people, who would not only get so low, it is still a low benefit, because the US does not recognize the confirmations of earnings issued by some of the private archives and owners of the liquidated companies? And why, despite many monits, including the NIK, did you not solve this problem in the regulation prior to the introduction of the law? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u139	Thank you. Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! Minister! I understand that you made this decision because of your election promise and because of the expectation of a very large group of Poles. But I would like to know if, when making this decision, you did a simulation of what the demographic situation will look like, but also the financial situation of the state, not only until 2019, which is a year, I hope, the end of your governments, but also in the future. And I would like to know what the expected costs of this decision are by 2030, which is in the long term. Is it true that this could cost up to PLN 250 billion? Because by 2019, I understand, costs are estimated at about PLN 40 billion. That's another line. I would like to ask you if you are aware that in 2030, there will be only 2.6 people aged 20 to 64 and that there are now about four people working, i.e. at least four people aged 65+. So I'd like to know what the calculations are that allow us to assess what our pension insurance system will look like not in a year, not in two years, but in the 20s, because in that perspective we have to plan things related to pension systems. This change was introduced for a very specific reason. Because it was realized that because we live longer, we are retired longer, and therefore these pensions, on the one hand, are going to get lower and lower, on the other hand, we need to work longer and longer. I would like to ask if it is true that the pensions of women who are now about forty and a few years old will be up to 40% when they retire at the age of 60. lower than they would have been if they had passed at the age of 67. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u141	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak. [[...-yeah, -yeah, -yeah.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Mr. Marshal said well.]] [[Okay?]] Listen carefully... [[Thank you very much.]] ...Mr Mieczysławie Kasprzak, -ak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Minister whether the amounts you have provided for women and men relate to these new benefits, or to all benefits globally. In general, however, I would also like to ask how many people, when they see the calculation of the benefit they will receive from the counselor, do not receive this benefit. Do you have that intel? But I would like to ask what about the lowest benefits, because the valorization that was this year was symbolic, the lowest in recent years - some received 2.80 and the benefit is 850 PLN - and on the other hand there are galloping increases, increases in prices of everything: food, services, media. And today, the question is, what's next for the 500+ pensioners. You promised, you promised yourself, it would be 500+ this year. Today it is said that there is no money, and 4 billion funds allocated to ZUS are taken in express mode, half a billion from KRUS. Something doesn't add up, something doesn't add up. The Polish People's Party has filed a bill about 500+, about a fixed supplement to help with the lowest pensions this year. Retired people ask directly how to survive this year, how to move on, Minister. As a pensioner for PLN 850 and such pensions are very much, he is to survive in terms of this financial situation and the financial resources that are not lacking, [[♪ The bell ♪]] As you can see, because on the other hand, you're taking social security? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u143	Thank you. Mr Marek Polak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u144	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Lowering the retirement age is a commitment by the Government of Law and Justice, which was eagerly awaited by many working Poles. And on behalf of the people who are waiting for work, and also on behalf of myself, I would like to express my full appreciation and thanks for this request. But the implementation of pension reform is not only a work and adoption of appropriate laws, because it is also a great challenge for the Social Insurance Institution. This is a period of increased inflow of pension applications, followed by an analysis of them and the issuing of the applicable decisions. I would therefore like to ask whether the Social Insurance Institution has the staff of properly trained and prepared officials who will carry out this difficult and responsible task with due care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u145	Thank you. Mrs Agnieszka Hanajczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u146	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Minister specific questions. If I'm wrong, you can get me out of this. Is the macro-economic pension system a simplification tool for dividing current GDP between the working generation and the retired generation? That's the first question. Second question. At the end of 2016, there were more than 2.5 million Poles in exile. That's 4.7%. More than a year ago. That's what the CUS says. It turned out that the emigration did not stop. The fall in unemployment won't stop her either, because it's about pay. The third point concerns the Polish budget in 2017. In this budget, did the fifth dollar go to retirees? And another thing you will allow me to quote: The pension system, which was transformed in 1999, despite the optimistic announcements, will not bring benefits to future pensioners. Their majesty will make many people a customer of social services. The mass retirement is still ahead of us. In 2015, the retirement age will reach the 1955 age, which is the one where almost 800,000 were born. People. These are the words made by Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz in 2008. So I want to ask, because this is simple math, where you're going to look for money. Today you're talking about documentation. I am surprised by what the Minister said, that the subject who took the burden, but we are talking about documentation, is the ZUS. We need to talk about money. I do not agree with the definition of freedom of choice, because freedom of choice for a pensioner is if his pension secures the necessary needs and he will have to go to work - I think of most pensioners - because he will not be able to afford to live from retirement. I am very interested, Minister, in the threshold of replacement for women and men. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u147	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Pampuch.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u148	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Many of today's retired workers have worked in today's non-existent workplaces before 1999. For the purpose of documenting earnings to establish initial capital and thus calculating pensions, documentation from these establishments is needed. According to the data of the Warsaw State Archives, more than half of those applying for this type of documentation leave the register. The lack of this documentation before 1999 is also a significant, much lower pension. And I have a question for the Minister: What has the Minister done to solve these problems of people who do not have employee records before 1999? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u149	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u150	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I want to lie about what the opposition tried to tell Poles until recently. Retiring by restoring the early retirement age, that is, what we promised Poles, what Law and Justice agreed to with Poles is not a duty, but a privilege. The choice belongs to a particular person. And here I will quote the words of Minister Elżbieta Rafalska: We say clearly to Poles that the restoration of this century is an indication of a minimum age. On the other hand, the decision to retire is their choice, taking into account their health situation, their occupational situation, their expectations of the amount of benefit they may receive. Those Poles who want and feel up to it will be able to work. For each year of work, their pension will increase by 8%. It's an incentive to stay active. Minister! Is it true that such an incentive mechanism is not in any other European Union country? [[There isn't any in the world.]] Today we know what decision Poles have made to retire. The incentive mechanism was effective. Today, in the Parliament hall, we still hear from the opposition that something is still not right. It played for you from the Civic Platform and the PSL while raising the retirement age of Poles without their consent. The Poles didn't want it, you did it by force. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[But Poles want to retire at the age of 50.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u151	Mrs Anna Wasilewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u152	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Since October, retirement age has been reduced. It is now estimated that nearly 300,000 will retire. persons. Plus 50,000. women have resigned from work in connection with the provision of 500+. The labour market is beginning to run out of workers. The government and the Social Insurance Institution are wondering how to discourage Poles from retiring at a time when they acquire pension rights. Employers choose to raise, but it's rare. They promise to re-hire, but the termination of the employment contract does not always result in re-employment. A growing number of recipients can lead to a huge financial gap. Between 2017 and 2021 the consequence of the Law reducing retirement age is the cost of PLN 54 billion. The amount for 2018 is over 800 million. The government is currently proposing an additional 10,000. PLN for staying in the labour market, but there are no regulations in this case. In the ZUS financial advisors help potential pensioners to decide on the date of termination of their employment. They talk about the size of pensions and prospects. What is the most common decision? That's because they're deciding to retire because they want a pension that high, right here and now, because they don't know what it's gonna be like in the future. Minister! Will the state budget bear such expenditure relating to pensions and pension payments? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u153	Thank you. Mr Marek Owa.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u154	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister's information focused mainly on how this reform was carried out, how all the topics were dealt with by ZUS employees. I'd like to ask you about other topics. In the summer of this year, everyone received information about the amount of their pension benefits at the time of retirement. It should be added that this information about the benefits which the Social Security Office sent to everyone in August in July concerned the legal situation at that time, the moment of retirement at the age of 67 and, of course, the accumulation of the pension contribution to this day. Therefore, I have a question: When the ZUS sends information to each... [[Voice from the room: Correction.]] ...the correct amount of his retirement when he retires at the age of 60 for women and 65 for men, so that these people know what the situation is, and what's the difference? Then we'd be talking about facts, wouldn't we? Because it's very simple to convert and you just have to send that information because they're mostly unaware of the amount of retirement they're looking for. That's the first line. The second point is the question of state responsibility also for the public finance sector. The cost next year is PLN 9 billion introduced into the budget. I wish that's what... Next year, I said nine billion. I would like this to be developed, and Mrs Lubnauer has asked. And the third question, in my opinion, is the most important: What action will we take to increase the activity of people so that they do not benefit from the possibility of retirement but work? Because it's in everyone's best interests, including the working ones. After all, we all have relatives, parents, grandparents who have reached retirement age. Excellent country [[♪ The bell ♪]] You realize that professional activity serves. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u155	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Gosievski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u156	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! Lowering the retirement age is fulfilling one of the main electoral promises of Law and Justice. The particularly positive reception of this change concerns my region, the region of Warmia and Mazury. I was obliged by my fellow residents to thank the Minister for making this change. [[Voice from the hall: In another world we live.]] Restoring the retirement age means restoring the dignity of Poles who, after reaching the age of 60 and 65, will decide for themselves how long they will work. As far as I can tell, despite the restoration of this age, some of the interested ones will continue to work. Minister! How many people in Warmińsko-Mazurskie voivodship since 1 October this year. will benefit from the restoration of the retirement age, but how many people have decided to continue working? If possible, I would ask for data in this respect broken down by county in a possible written reply. I would also ask for an analysis of the dependence of these figures on existing unemployment in the various counties of the region of Warmia and Mazury. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u157	Thank you. And Mrs Anna Białkowska, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u158	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask: Why have you deceived Polish women? It sounded very beautiful... [[Oh...]] ...password: early retirement. But did you inform, however, about your retirement? Polish woman, retiring at the age of 60, will spend statistically on her 22 years old. It's gonna be a very skinny 22 years. PLN 1560 gross, PLN 1302 net - that is the average pension for a woman who will benefit from the binding provisions. And it's not the lowest pension yet. How is a Polish retired woman going to survive for that amount? Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS are champions of good advice. Starving residents said it would have a salvific effect on their silhouette. So maybe they will share here with Polish women the advice on how to survive for this amount of two decades. Because there are no free medicines for seniors, because Mr Radziwiłł considers geriatrics unnecessary in his infinite wisdom. Another question. The rate of poverty and exclusion is falling, but the CSO on 12 October reported an increase in the risk of poverty for adults, ageing and lonely. Does the government take into account that this will especially apply to older pensioners whose husband or wife has left and who live alone? What will you do with this fact? Did the government just implement a new poverty+ program? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u159	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u160	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Given the reduction in retirement age, I wanted to ask the Minister two questions. Firstly, according to the latest estimates, how does the Ministry estimate the loss, the difference that we will have to cover, for pensions, from the state budget? According to one of the latest forecasts of the Social Insurance Fund according to the pessimistic option, which predicted that the majority would retire early, up to PLN 63 billion could be missing from the Social Insurance Fund, which would have to be covered by the state budget. If we add to this 17.5 billion, which we add to the insurance of farmers under a functioning KRUS, and 20 billion, which we are paying directly from the state budget for pensions of soldiers, police officers, judges, prosecutors, this already gives us the amount of PLN 100 billion in terms of how much we need to spend from the state budget on such benefits. What does it look like when it comes to your calculations? If the Minister is unable to answer this question precisely today, I would ask for an answer in writing. I also have a second question. How are you going to solve the problem, already a very important problem, affecting entrepreneurs, the problem of lack of hands to work, which could prove to be a major barrier to the economic development of the country? Despite the drop in unemployment in large cities to the absolute minimum: Kraków - 3%, Warsaw - 2.5% , Poznań - less than 2%, the government has so far not put forward any meaningful proposal for a migration policy that would support the labour market while at the same time moving people from areas with higher unemployment to areas where they lack hands to work. When we can count on such a program that [[♪ The bell ♪]] The government's side? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u161	Mr Wiesław Krajewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u162	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, Many of our compatriots, exercising their own right to a well-deserved pension at the age of 60 and 65, which Law and Justice in accordance with the programme has restored and which was taken from Poles by the previous coalition of the Civic Platform and PSL, apply for pensions. This demonstrates the restoration of security for our seniors who believe that the state can meet this task and take care of this social group, without leaving it unsupported and cared for - unlike in previous years, when only fiscal targets were achieved at the expense of the most important social issues. Therefore, we are dealing with a permanent attack on our activities in this area carried out by the total opposition together with the favorable media. I therefore ask that the economic aspect of this reform be briefly justified, taking into account the demographics, the situation of the Social Security Office and its impact on the security of the state budget, in order to reassure those compatriots who, in connection with this nudge, may express their concern. There is one more thing I would like to mention and put into consideration the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Isn't it worthwhile to put into practice a normative act that would preserve the length and stability of the law for years to come, in order to avoid similar experiments like the OFE or tampering at retirement age? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u163	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Frydrych.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u164	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, In the implementation of the Law reducing retirement age, it was known that benefits would be significantly reduced and that women's pensions would be much lower than men's pensions. The average pension of a woman is as much as PLN 1164 lower than the average pension of a man. Why didn't the Ministry have any information policy in this area? Why didn't the Ministry stop sending ZUS information about the amount of potential pension? This information was sent on the basis of previous legislation and so many thousands of people were misled. Minister, the cost of reducing the retirement age in the first 5 years is PLN 55 billion, and it is estimated that in 2026 it may not be worth PLN 109 billion. How are you going to supplement the missing funds? Will the citizen pay for it again? And one more thing. Dear Minister, yesterday, an article called "The Fact" appeared. "Emeriture saves the unemployed from poverty." In an interview, the Minister said that the large number of people who applied for retirement in the first days of September remained outside the labour market. Those people weren't making money, they were unemployed. Today, Mrs Rusecka says that retirement is among others. protection where the health condition does not allow for work. After all, then there is a pension for incapacity for work, and the definition of a pension in principle states that pension is a cash benefit intended to secure an old-age life, a benefit for persons of adequate age. In other words, retirement is an old age insurance. And my question is, is the Ministry working on changing the definition of retirement? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u165	Mrs Ewa Lieder. You're welcome. Then Mr Jarosław Nobletka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u166	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The politicians of the total opposition are constantly criticizing the changes introduced by Law and Justice and President Andrzej Duda in terms of reducing the retirement age, restoring the previous condition as to the age in which Poles can... [[Don't lie to me.]] ... retiring, i.e. 60 years for women and 65 years for men. Let us remind you that when in 2012. PO and PSL increased retirement age, none of the rulers asked the sovereign's opinion. In the critical statements of politicians of the Civic and Modern Platform... [[A voice from the hall: But neither did you.]] ...are mostly charged with ruining public finances and driving women into poverty, especially. Therefore, I ask the Minister: Is it not true that not only the length of the period of work and employment affects the level of pensions, but also the level of wages, the level of economic growth and the skillful investment of Polish pensioners' money? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What investment?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u167	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to start by referring to the words of the Minister who said that now it is up to pensioners to decide whether they will continue to work or retire. No, my dear Minister, and please don't say that, because it depends on the good will of the boss, who mostly doesn't want to extend the pensioner's employment contract. Therefore, it is not that it depends on their will. This is the first case. Next case. Do you know what you've done by lying to Poles? Because manipulation is the same lie. You encouraged people to retire, reducing the age of this transition, and you didn't say it would cause so drastic - 8% on a yearly basis, a reduction in this pension. So? Now you're trying to get Poles to work longer because you figured it out. Prime Minister Morawiecki, where it leads. Does the State of the PiS-government know that some of those who are aware that this is such a low pension have agreed to these lower pensions? They're getting married because they're afraid there's not gonna be any retirement money in your government. [[Ofe.]] Do you know that young people rely so little on pensions that you want to reform? They're so afraid that they're gonna have to be taxed more and more to make money for ours, the states, pensions, that they don't count on pensions anymore. This is what you have led to, the state of PiS-government, manipulating the nation, that is, lying to the Poles. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u169	Mrs Elizabeth Stępień. You're welcome. Mr Antoni Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u170	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Law and Justice Government, implementing its electoral programme, restored the retirement age of 60 years for women and 65 years for men. From the so-called. The total opposition, which cannot be found in the head, is constantly heard about the catastrophe that the labour market in Poland is facing. As we know, retirement is a right, not an obligation for all of us. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] Given the market situation, the lowest unemployment recorded in history can be asked: Is it possible to fear the reaction of employers to force workers to retire? What does the Labour Code say? Is it serious to fear that the workers who have obtained this right will unintelligently benefit from it, putting themselves at risk of receiving a lower pension, or will they benefit from the right to work under the Labour Code and the needs of employers in a situation of good health? Does not this amendment restore a sense of stability and dignity to the workers? And last but not least, because I still have some time... Analyzing previous prognosis of specialists from PO and Modern, I think we can sleep peacefully because I don't see why these prognosis would work differently than all previous ones. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u171	Mrs Lidia Gądek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We hear so much about the fact that PiS is fulfilling its promises and that he will listen to voters, he will listen to Poles. No, you don't really listen to Poles in any way. You have introduced your flagship promise through the back door in a scandalous way. But we're not gonna be able to talk about it anymore. I'm just gonna give you some details. The Minister and the Prime Minister were proud not too long ago. that we have a record low unemployment in Poland. That's right, we do. But do we realize that many companies in Poland will soon have to declare bankruptcy because there are no qualified employees to take up new challenges and introduce new contracts? At the moment, the 25th day protests the Medical Profession Agreement. They're not just residents anymore. They want to increase the cost of health care, and you say, "Let's go," or they'll lose weight if they protest and starve hard. I have a specific question and I ask you to answer in writing, Minister. As a result of changes in the length of retirement age, how many midwives will we lose in the health sector, how many nurses will we lose, how many doctors will we lose? The system is already on the verge of collapse. Retiring from individual occupational groups will simply result in a dramatic collapse. Ukrainians will not come because they prefer to go to Germany and Sweden, where they simply have much better working conditions. Tell me what kind of prescription the Minister has for this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] To keep the employees at work for our common good. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u173	Mr Aleksander Anczynski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u174	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, On 1 October 2017, the expected retirement age of many Poles, Poles, returned, for which the Minister deserves great thanks. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear!]] I'd like to ask you two questions. The first question is trivial, simple, but I have to ask it again, because some present here in the Chamber and probably some - or perhaps most - of the total opposition do not understand it. Is it true that this is a minimum retirement age? And second question. I'm not asking if there will be black scenarios regarding the lack of ZUS' ability to implement the law, etc., etc. Just a moment ago I said a total opposition, because my previous speaker used the words: you do not listen to Poles in any way... [[Of course.]] ...I'm sorry to hear that. That's why you really are a total opposition. I'd like to ask you a second question. Minister, at what time will the lowest pensions be increased? Thank you very much? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u175	Thank you, sir. I would like to inform the High House that our deliberations are being listened to by young people from the Educational Centres' Team. The European Union in Boronov together with a group of young people from the Czech Republic. We welcome you, dear young people, cordially. [[Applause]] And I would like to ask Mrs Bożena Kaminska for a question. [[There isn't.]] This is Mr Lech Kołakowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u176	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! I would like to remind you that reaching the retirement age of 60 years for women and 65 years for men gives you the opportunity to benefit from pension rights. It's not a warrant, it's a privilege, and remember that. Dear Minister, I'd like to ask you some questions. On the basis of the applications submitted after 1 October this year. are we able to identify groups of industries and professions interested in using new pension regulations? And second question: Is it possible to determine what percentage of pension benefits is eligible after 1 October? will he benefit from it by gender and competition? I would also like to thank Minister Elżbieta Rafalska and the employees of the Social Insurance Institution very much for their hard work in implementing and implementing this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u177	Thank you. Mr Michael Szczerba.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u178	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There used to be a saying: economy, fools, but there should now be spread other: demography, fools. Ladies and gentlemen: In Poland there are almost 9 million seniors and seniors. There are 2 million more seniors than children and young people up to the age of 17. The government made a political decision to reduce the retirement age and had the right to do so. The question is: Why is there no incentive for workers to remain in the labour market, Minister? You are fully aware of the lack of hands in Poland. The Minister is fully aware of the average age of the Polish nurse. It's 51 years. Why was there no encouragement created? Why not also benefit from the ideas of the Civic Platform, which have been reported: exemption from contributions, apart from health contributions, for people who receive retirement age. On 1 October, the reduced retirement age reached 330 thousand. Poles. This year he can retire to up to 0.5 million Poles and Poles. This is a great danger. Let us also bear in mind that this is not only a question of incentives to remain in the labour market. We must also provide incentives, Minister, for pensioners to engage in professional activity. These are tasks we need to talk about very, very loudly. In Poland we now have 1.5 million 80-year-olds, in 20 years these 80-year-olds will be 3 million. Someone's got to treat these people, somebody's got to take care of them. Thank you very much. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u179	Mrs Anna April. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u180	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, I was inspired to ask this question by a conversation with one of the ladies who came to my office and drew my attention to perhaps one of the very important aspects that would be worth examining or analysing. Well, she is fully capable of continuing to work, and her decision to retire is dictated by the need to take care of her parents, the elderly. And I would like to ask if the truth is that it's cheaper to take care of an elderly person directly by children at home. The truth is, when a person is 60 years old, most parents are over 80 and already require practically constant care. Aren't institutional forms of care for the elderly much more expensive and a burden on the state? 'Cause maybe it'd be worth it. I know many people who absolutely do not retire, even though they have reached the age required, just because they just feel healthy and do not have such burdens. As for these institutional forms of care for the elderly or for the children, there are grandparents who make their decision to retire when the children ask them to take care of their grandchildren. These are also specific costs, which do not fall on the state, are not for [[♪ The bell ♪]] for us, for our budget or for the local government, the burden. It would be worth analyzing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u181	Thank you. And Mr Marcin Święcicki. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You are presenting the positive effects of a return to the old retirement age and this can of course be enjoyed by many, but you are not presenting the other side, and there is nothing for free. The professional activity of people aged 55 and 65 will be reduced. She's already the lowest in Europe. Lowering the retirement age will further reduce it. Instead of working on it, we lower it. But let's look at the long-term effects. Well, in 2040, because there will be about 2 million more people in retirement and about as many people will pay their contributions, the additional annual resources required to serve the pension system are PLN 40.50 billion. For the entire period 2018,2040 will be the sum of PLN 400.500 billion. You don't represent these calculations. How can these enormous additional needs be financed? Well, it can be financed in three ways. One way is to cut other public spending. But we have to increase them, too. We're not gonna cut you, we're gonna make you healthier. We're not gonna cut in national defense, we're gonna increase in national defense. So I don't know. Or are we gonna cut down on infrastructure, on roads, on rails, on other things? I don't think we're expecting that either. The second option is to raise contributions. Thus in Poland pension contributions are among the highest, so even further raise the rates of these contributions and charge young generations with these rates... I don't hear anything about you going in that direction either. There remains a third solution, namely a reduction in average pensions - a reduction, as economists calculate, by 1/3 roughly, such is a government of magnitude, so will pensions in relation to wages fall, compared to today, to 2040. Why are you kidding people, not telling the truth, not describing these calculations, what it's gonna be like if this retirement age [[♪ The bell ♪]] will it work, what will be the macroeconomic consequences as well as the individual consequences for each pensioner? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u183	Thank you, sir. This time I would like to welcome the representatives of Catholic Action from Radzionkow to the gallery. Welcome. [[Applause]] I would like to ask Mrs Lydia Burzyńska a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u184	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On 1 October, the law entered into force not reducing, but restoring the retirement age of 60 years for women, 65 years for men, which in 2012 the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party increased to 67 years regardless of gender. This reform is another pre-election promise fulfilled by the Government of Law and Justice, which brings, as you can see here after this discussion, a total opposition to frustration. They are witnesses and you are witnesses... [[But you're lying.]] ...that it is possible, I repeat, to keep the promises made to Poles. [[But how bad are they?]] Despite catastrophic voices, among others. that the pension reform is populist, unthinkable, that the days of the ZUS are numbered, I ask you to remember: the decision to retire is a free choice of Poles and Poles. The Minister, although in her speech you provided this information, but with such a frequent repetition as the vision is to take place before the Social Security Office, in connection with the pension law, I ask you to repeat: Did the restoration of the retirement age result in a drastic outflow of workers from the labour market? That's one thing. [[It's only been a month.]] Second: Are among those who have benefited... [[Game in the O.R.]] Do you mind if I finish the question? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are there those who enjoyed this privilege who had not worked before 1 October not received any benefits, so they did not have any income? Thank you very much. I had one more question, but the ladies interrupted me. Thank you. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u185	Thank you, Member. I'm joining you... [[But you have to listen to the Minister. That's what she's been talking about.]] ...to this request from the Member not to disturb one another. Then we can make it... [[Game in the O.R.]] But even the ladies won't let me finish this request. So please listen in peace to the humble request that the Members be kind enough to allow all those asking the question to be asked in peace and quiet. I would like to ask Mr Józef Lassota's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u186	Thank you, Marshal. It's not asking questions, it's just sayings...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u187	Then speak up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u188	Thank you very much. ...but I would like to make such a suggestion to the Minister as to whether she has ever wondered what responsible government means - responsible government. Of course, today, after the retirement age has been reduced, many people are happy, so you have some of your posts, etc., and this is a fun thing at the moment. I am sometimes surprised that young people have also voted in this regard. I am no longer surprised by the older ones who are pre-retirement or retirement age and whose case can be less directly concerned. But the Minister is very young, the Prime Minister - very young, Mr President - always young, [[Applause, joy in the hall]] So you have to think about the future. Also the adults, the older ones, who have their children and grandchildren. After all, governing the state, responsible government is not just an ad hoc applause. It is also the need to make difficult, sometimes unpopular decisions. I am saying this in the context that has already been mentioned here. After all, it is about the next generation or perhaps not even the next generation, perhaps even in the next term of office it will be necessary to find the money to secure the pension fund. So, in other words, you have to go back to one or another solution that will necessarily prolong your working life. Already today, the messenger has just said that this is voluntary. Exactly. You promised everyone would be able to get through, and now you're encouraging them not to. Are you the Minister? [[♪ The bell ♪]] As a young person, is aware of what this means: responsible government, thinking about the future, prospectively? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u189	Thank you. However, there was a question, sir. Please take the floor this time, Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u190	But the rule is that this is a statement, not a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u191	Of course. This is a discussion. I invite Mrs Iwona Michalek to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u192	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can't go over what I've heard here in this room from one of the messengers who are no longer here, but who said that there are currently no qualified workers and that it's supposed to be our fault. That was the suggestion. I was going to say no, professional education was destroyed during the SLD, and you didn't do anything to save it. So I have to correct it after all. And the Minister, I just wanted to ask for that information. You gave me the data at the beginning, how many applications you had received, how many decisions you had taken. I would very much ask for the same data for the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship. I understand you can't now, so I'm asking you to answer in writing. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u193	Please take the floor of Mrs. Catherine Chechara.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u194	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Messengers, I wanted to remind you that man's dignity depends, among other things. that he has the power to decide for himself. [[Applause]] [[As long as he can afford it.]] Unfortunately, the governments of the Civic Platform and PSL have repeatedly tried to take it away from us. [[Game in the O.R.]] A little bit of history. It's 2012, May 11th. [[I'll quote those words to you.]] The Civic Platform and PSL introduce a law that increases the retirement age, aligning it for women and men up to 67 years of age. PO-PSL grinded all the signatures, and there were almost 2 million of them. Almost 90% The Poles were against the changes being made. Well, the PSL Civic Platform, as usual, was deaf and blind, once again didn't give us all the choice. Minister! I have a question. Please say: Was the decision of the Civic Platform and PSL government valid and necessary? Was it really what we were tried to say? Were there also opportunities, as is the case today, to introduce such laws to give Poles the right to choose and to decide for themselves? [[Game in the O.R.]] [[The right to choose is very important, especially when it comes to abortion.]] Thank you very much. [[Yes, the right to choose - the precious words of the lady.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u195	Mr Waldemar Olejniczak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u196	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The retirement age has been reduced since 1 October. Lowering the retirement age is a socially expected reform. Early retirement is a privilege, not a compulsion, it's an individual decision, it's a decision of every privileged. In fact, it is about citizens having the right to choose whether they retire or not. By 1 October of this year 17% Despite reaching retirement age, Poles continued to work. Nevertheless, the opposition criticizes, threatening that our economy cannot afford such an expense. I believe that the economy can cope with many challenges, and well-managed will also cope with early retirement. The decision to return to the retirement age of 60 years for women and 65 years for men seems good news. Eventually, we'll be able to work less. Minimum pensions are crucial in this respect. For a large part of the lowest-income society, reducing the retirement age is good news. They will not have a lower pension because they are already entitled only to a minimum pension. In the end, they will receive the same benefit. The good news is that as the retirement age goes down, it will be easier to get the lowest benefit. Since the previous government raised the retirement age to 67 years, it also raised the eligibility criteria for a minimum pension. It was established in 2006 that in order for a woman to be able to apply for the lowest pension, she would have to prove 22 years of internship and a man 25 years of age. As of 2022. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It was supposed to be 25 years for both sexes. Once the retirement age is down, a woman will have to prove only 20 years of internship. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u197	Thank you. High Izbo! Since the time allowed for this debate is 90 minutes, and in a few minutes it will pass, and there are still a dozen or so Members of Parliament who are to speak, my request is to shorten the time, because then there is a chance that you will all be able to speak. If this does not work, we will unfortunately have to close these discussions in accordance with regular time. Mrs Małgorzata Golińska speaks. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u198	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Very short. Is it true that since January 2009 the Civic Platform government has given up the so-called "province" for pensioners. the solidarity formula and therefore the level of pensions has fallen dramatically? For example, I would like to say that the election gas, which provided data from the Social Security Office, was 3036 PLN gross in 2013 and only 1856 PLN gross in 2013 according to the new rules. So is it fair today that it is the Platform Members who pretend to be concerned about their low pensions of Poles? And the basic question. Minister, is there any chance of an increase in the pensions of parents who spend their lives caring for disabled children? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u199	Thank you. Mrs Barbara Dziuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u200	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! It's been two years since the Poles chose to rule Law and Justice. We have a good change that covers all economic areas, including the pension system. Minister, I would like to thank you very much for the reform envisaged, because all trade unions were against increasing the retirement age for women. You know, it can't be like a man and a woman. In some ways, women are different. Equal rights, you can say, ends when the piano is brought to the fourth floor. It's an anecdote for the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not forget the moment when contributions from OFE were transferred to the Social Security Office. Yes, they were to be passed on, but before the citizens retired. It was horrible. [[We'll live, see what happens next.]] It was a cashier's heist. Retirement's been tricked. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, hence my question. How many people have now applied for pension status in the framework of the reform, and how many are left with workers? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u201	Mrs Gabriela Masłowska. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] In that case, Mr Andrzej Noblechta.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On the basis of current studies prepared by the Social Insurance Institution on persons who have expressed their willingness to benefit from a reduced retirement age, it can be concluded that most of the retired persons are women. Hence my question to the Minister. In percentage terms, what is the relationship between men and women who retire? Is this national relationship similar at the voivodship level, or is regional specificity visible? According to the Ministry, what is the main reason why more women in percentage terms retire early? On the occasion of this debate, I would like to inform the Minister that people who signal the failure of the Social Security Office to recognise documents issued by certain archives are coming to the parliamentary offices. In the 1990s, private archives gathering employee files began to be created. What is the position of the Ministry on the recognition of evidence in pension matters issued by private archives which have not been entered in the relevant register? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u203	Mr Dariusz Kubiak. You're welcome. There's no envoy. This is Mr Dariusz Starzycki. [[He fell asleep.]] In that case, Mrs Alicja Kaczorowska. There isn't, right? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You're an MP.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u204	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm gonna repeat a sentence that's been here a lot of times, but I started with it anyway, and I just have to start with it. As of 1 October 2017, the Government of Law and Justice has restored the retirement age as part of its responsible governance and promises. They can, but they don't have to, retire 60-year-old women and 65-year-old men. Shorter work, of course, means lower retirement, but it is still a matter of choice. Minister, is it true that for those who have set aside little contributions, but for various reasons, also family ones, they want to retire at this age, the state provides for a minimum pension, and would that also apply to the CRUs? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u205	Thank you. Mr Rafał Weber. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Mr Jan Kilian.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u206	Mr. Marshal! Minister! This is the month of operation of this law. Poles can finally decide their own fate. At the right age, they're not fired from work, but they're not forced to work either. I've spent a lot of time at the first table at the pharmacy in the past few years. I've seen these women, I've seen their prescriptions. It was a sight very often terrifying, these women were forced to work until they were 67 years old. Thus, great thanks on behalf of all those women who are now in a new situation. Minister! Isn't the fact that at the moment the support for the Government of Law and Justice, the support for Prime Minister Beata Szydło at such a level, not proof that it was an act exceptionally expected by Poles? Are finance in jeopardy? Does the ZUS work, work properly? Has the labour market collapsed? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u207	Mr Adam Oldakowski. You're welcome. [[Voice from the Chamber: There is no Member.]] This is Mrs Bernadette Krynick.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u208	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today, women will be able to retire at the age of 60, men at the age of 65. If they want, they can work longer. Ladies and gentlemen! Women will work seven years less. Many people, especially women over the age of 50, who lost their jobs during various restructurings under the rule of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party... [[Examples.]] ...he didn't have a chance to work, he was left with no means to live. Thanks to this law, they will receive early retirement and at the same time the means of life. I know a lot of women and men like that in my district. During the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, I would like to remind you that many nurses and midwives were released, they were expelled from their workplaces after 30 years of working on the so-called. pre-retirement benefits without the possibility of additional earnings. [[The residents are now...]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You couldn't have. [[Voice from the room: You could have.]] No means of living. Now these ladies will be able to get a pension that will be higher. And by the way, imagine a 67-year-old nurse working nights, 12 hours... [[Voice from the O.R.: at the I.C.U.]] ...in the ICU, at the punctures, at the newborns, with the young children, assisting as an instrumentalist during surgery. [[Excellent example.]] Would you like that? Or CPR. Can you imagine the work of a 67-year-old nurse? [[But have you read this bill or not? I don't think so.]] After all these years of hard work on change? Minister! I have a question: What is the number of people who have remained unemployed and were looking forward to their early retirement age, and now they will be retiring? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Very nice.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u209	Mrs Barbara Bartus. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] This is Mr Rafał Weber.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u210	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Some time ago, literally a few months ago, one of the members of the Civic Platform, Mrs Joanna Mucha, in one of the debates, said that the 500+ family programme pushed a quarter of a billion Poles out of the labour market. Of course, she was wrong then, she meant a quarter of a million Poles, or 250,000. women, while after a year and a half of this program, we can say with conviction that she was simply wrong. Program 500+... If, to put it this way, women have resigned to receive this benefit, this is a really small percentage of Polish workers who had worked before. This is confirmed by statistical data, even if data about the fact that unemployment in Poland fell in September and in the following months will also fall, and I remind you that in September the pension law in this form has not yet functioned. [[He's leaving more and more.]] The same envoy once entered this school with an umbrella and showed it as an example of the struggle for women's rights. In fact, it is the law on the reduction of the retirement age for women that is the most symbolic example of the rule of law and justice and justice taking care of women's rights. In Poland, women will now have a choice whether they want to work or not. They will make this decision either by themselves or in consultation with their family, given their health, based on whether they are being paid to work, whether they are being paid to build their retirement capital or simply not, whether they want to take care of their hobbies, I don't know, taking care of their grandchildren or anything else. This is a true example of the struggle for women's rights. I ask the honourable messengers to simply accept it. And I don't have any questions for the Minister. Minister, keep it up. Thank you very much. [[That's funny.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u211	Thank you. [[But they'll be able to afford it, sir, to take care of it?]] [[It will be. He'll always be there to take care of his grandkids.]] That concludes the discussion. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Ursula Rusecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Responding to social expectations and commitments towards Poles and Poles, as well as in the interests of Poles, their right to decide when to retire, the Government of Law and Justice restored the previous retirement age. It was a mistake to think that extending the retirement age would result in a reduction, a fall in unemployment and, consequently, a continuation of GDP growth and corporate tax revenues. Only systemic solutions such as those introduced by the Government of Law and Justice, Prime Minister Beata Szydło's government, such as the 500+ family programme, the reduction of unemployment - let me remind you that we have at the moment the lowest unemployment for many years - support for entrepreneurs to create new jobs - I will mention here the plan of Prime Minister Morawiecki - introducing laws increasing the revenue to the state budget - here I will remind you of the downloadability of VAT - and allowing young Poles and Poles to work for a comprehensive solution to the pension problem in Poland. As one of your fellow Members said: responsible governance. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Law and Justice is responsible governance. Retirement... [[We'll ask you next year.]] It's been two years, Member. The amount of retirement does not depend solely on the number of years of work, because then you would have to work in Poland for probably even longer than 67 years of age. [[Voice from the room: To death.]] Until death, as you proposed. [[And now everyone's fine.]] The level of pensions in Poland also depends in a significant and even predominantly on the size of salaries, contribution periods, economic growth in the country, rational management of public finances, integrity and professionalism of the rulers. I would particularly like to thank the Minister very much for this professionalism. Restoring the retirement age does not mean that people will have to retire. [[They won't even be able to.]] They have a choice. Here again, one of the ladies asked such a question, and I would like to point out that, in the light of the revision of the Labour Code and the current interpretation of the Supreme Court, the achievement of the retirement age cannot be a criterion for the employer, which will cause the worker to lose his job. [[Exactly.]] I would also like to say that the increase in retirement age by the predecessors cannot be a cure for the problems that the FUS had. [[Then why are they picking up in the world?]] That's not the way. You should pay attention... [[Why do they raise in the world how it's not a method?]] Member, please. You've had your time for eight years, now let someone else decide. [[Applause]] [[Exactly. Eight years.]] Attention should also be paid to... Of course, the life span of Poles is prolonged, but is this life in good health? [[Quality.]] Let me put it this way: responsible politics is judged by the way they deliver on their electoral promises. It should be recalled that during the election campaign you said that you would not raise the retirement age and then, within a month, throwing away 2 million signatures, you raised the retirement age. We, on the other hand, in our electoral programme, the election programme of Law and Justice, said that we would restore the retirement age, and we are doing it. We thank the voters very much that they allowed us to implement this good program for Poland. Thank you again, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u213	Thank you, Member. I ask you to speak to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Elizabeth Rafalska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u214	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I cordially thank the Sejm and all Members for their questions, and these questions have been asked over 40. I understand that each of you has been guided by the real concern for the state's situation, the state's budget... [[Yeah, of course.]] ...and the situation of those affected by the restored retirement age, not the reduced retirement age, but the restored retirement age. Ladies and gentlemen, let's start with fundamental questions such as: It was raining here. By restoring retirement age, we are really restoring confidence in the state. [[Oh, my God!]] We are also restoring confidence in politics, Madam President. [[Applause]] Not just for politics of law and justice politicians, not just for politics at all. [[I don't agree with that.]] To the fact that you can boldly talk about your programs in the election campaign and then implement these programs. [[A decent retirement life is the foundation.]] You didn't do it. You really fooled Poles by extending the retirement age because you lacked the courage during the election campaign to say that there is a situation, and that you have such and such arguments for extending the age. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You didn't do it, and you paid for it after the next losing campaign. [[Minister, but for the project.]] I propose, really, a calm debate, so you will also remember that 84% Poles support the return to the previous retirement age... [[And 100% to 50 years of support.]] ...that the charge was that you came to power and did something that no one expected. I felt cheated as a citizen, although I had not yet thought about retiring because everyone thought this was the moment - not the moment that I would end my professional activity, but that I would reach this retirement age and make my decision individually. And the state simply deceived the Poles then. There was an important question here, it was a question of responsibility. Of course we're guided by this responsibility. This is the responsibility for the state, this is the responsibility for the financial situation you have asked for, for 30, 40, 50 years, but this is also the responsibility for citizens who have been deprived of their jobs or the possibility of retirement by surprise. [[Applause]] That's the responsibility. [[By 2040, I'll remind you.]] You have also carried out your reform, which extends the retirement age of women completely without social dialogue, without social dialogue, with the protest of trade unions, also with great social dissatisfaction. She also spoke a little while ago, and this is a very important argument, which is not often remembered in Poland, that we really live longer. We live longer, but we still do not live the longest in Europe, here we are completely in the middle, this is the average age for Europe. [[But we have the lowest pensions.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, as far as staying healthy is concerned, we're already on our tail. Unfortunately, our time of health is shorter than that of other nations. Very often there was an argument about the care for women's pensions. And I think that behind this, I'm talking about colleagues from the Civic Platform, and the argument is that there's really a lack of faith in the wisdom of women. Women are really smarter than you think, because they themselves, with information, can take the best for themselves... [[They won't have a choice.]] ...for your family to decide when to end their professional activities. And it's a voluntary decision. [[A single woman who will live for 1,300 zlotys.]] Contrary to everything you say, we're gonna make choices for people or we're gonna make choices, we're gonna limit them. Look, we're the three-fold increase in crèche care, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Saying to a woman: you will have a baby-care institution and you will be able to decide that you will take care of children for 3 years because you have two, three, and sometimes four children, you have a family benefit. This is a chance. One of the messengers was talking about us cheating. I know this is her first term. Let me remind you that it was then that the Poles were deceived by the Platform. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! I took the liberty of grouping these questions, because a lot of the questions concerned of course, and it is understandable, the financial situation of the Social Insurance Fund. So I will tell you immediately that, of course, the Social Insurance Institution, and in fact the FUS subject to it, has secured funds for the payment of all benefits, including both for the payment of pensions already granted and for those who have applied for retirement. Even for those who may not decide to retire, we don't know that at all. So these black scenarios that concern the bankruptcy of the social security system have not been fulfilled, I ask you, because thanks to the improvement of the country's economic situation, labour market measures, unemployment reduction and employment growth, the rate of financing the Social Insurance Fund's expenditure has reached a record level of almost 80% in the first half of 2017, precisely 79.1%. , and in the second quarter of 2017 - 79.8%. This is a very good result, not recorded since 2001. The revenue of FUS in the first half of 2017 amounting to PLN 148.4 billion was higher than last year by almost 8 percentage points. Ladies and gentlemen! What ordering measures have caused, for example, an increase in income from social security contributions? The introduction of an hourly rate, the cancellation of contract contracts up to the minimum wage, the increase in remuneration - these are the factors that make the Social Insurance Institution have higher amounts than the plan provided for, and the example of the pessimistic forecast for the Social Insurance Fund quoted here is not appropriate to apply in the economic situation we are talking about this year and what will be in the near future, because we have high economic growth and low unemployment. [[It's a perspective.]] We must remember that the forecasts for the Social Insurance Institution and the FUS are forecasts for a good situation, an average situation and a bad situation. Pulling out this option today, this most blackest scenario would have to be based on macroeconomic indicators, on concrete data. Information action, ladies and gentlemen - there were allegations and questions here - started very early. I think the Poles were sensitive to all information related to the restoration of the retirement age, because for this restoration really, ladies and gentlemen, they were waiting. It also started with the campaign that we conducted together with the President's Office of the Republic of Poland, with the President, with the Social Insurance Institution, with the Solidarity Department and the Ministry of... [[But we know that. Please answer the questions.]] ...and then the Social Insurance Institution introduced 597 pension advisors... [[The Minister has not answered any questions yet.]] ...who gave over 400,000 in a short period of time. information. The pension calculator and pension advisors have also been used to carry out more than 476 thousand. the calculation in the pension calculator. It is a service that will remain and enjoy great interest in the Social Insurance Institution because it allows people [[♪ The bell ♪]] to carry out this calculation. It goes on for example. I'm gonna retire today because I'm 60 or I'm gonna go a year later and my pension is gonna go up 8%, and if I work another year, that's it. Ladies and gentlemen, that was our job. All eligible persons were able to benefit from this knowledge and to make informed decisions about the termination of their professional activities. I'm gonna use my presence for a little while longer. May I remind you that, within the framework of all the decisions issued, active persons are, ladies and gentlemen, 28.6% persons who have submitted applications. More than 31% were those who had no benefits, as some messengers asked. Finally, I would like to answer an extremely interesting question, which is almost nowhere to appear, which concerns the need to take care of the elderly in the context of the restoration of the retirement age. Mrs April asked this question. Look, ladies and gentlemen, we are actually approaching this retirement age, we often have chronically ill parents, we have dilemmas, what to do, because we don't have yet... [[It's true.]] ...that pension rights, we're not leaving work because she's a source of living... [[And 1200 zł or 1300 zł will allow for this care?]] ...and we have a restored retirement age, which allows, also provides the opportunity to perform a care function in the family. We often want to take care of our sick parents... [[To the state?]] ...and we couldn't do it. You can't stop it because it's a choice. [[Minister, but for 1,300 zlotys, you can't do that right now.]] If you don't want to do this, you don't have to, but some people can take care of their sick parents today and then have the right to benefit from the restored retirement age. He's retired, too. [[Applause]] Also those people who want to support their children in raising their grandchildren can do it... [[Exactly.]] ...but they can do it out of their own choice, not out of the compulsion you offered to make people work until they were 67 years old. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Please answer in writing, because to no question...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u215	Thank you. [[Game in the O.R.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, take it easy. Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Rafalska: Mr. Marshal! Of course, we will answer all the detailed questions in writing. [[That's great.]] Thank you, Minister. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. Before we move on to item 15 of the agenda, I would like to inform you and your fellow Members that we are listening to a group of young people from Nysa Mechanical Technology. We greet the young people of Nysa. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Commission's draft law amending the Local Government Act (Prints No 1886 and 1909). I ask Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u216	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Commission's draft law amending the Local Government Act, print No 1886. High Seym! Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for first reading on 10 October 2017. The Commissions: the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy after first reading and after considering the draft law at its meeting on 12 October 2017 bring: The High Sejm will adopt a draft law from print no. 1886. I would like to point out that, in this case, the initiative was taken at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, but during the examination of all the Members of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, they gave a positive opinion on the proposal. Also in the statements of the government, which are contained in the documents of the committee's meeting, there is a kind acceptance of this decision. The reasons and analyses of the Sejm Analysis Office are attached to print No 1886: the opinion on compliance with European Union law and the opinion on whether the Commission's draft law amending the Municipal Government Act is a draft law implementing European Union law. All these opinions caused us to unanimously accept the proposed amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u217	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski will be the first to speak again. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u218	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! In recent years, and during the exercise of power by various governments, various coalitions, we have had and are dealing with a change of borders between local governments in Poland. Such decisions shall be issued following a government consultation by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. Please state that the practice so far indicated that, when the boundaries were changed, the spatial planning plan, which was in force in the municipality, which most often gave part of its territory to a city or other local government unit, was no longer in force. If such a spatial development plan was part of a larger overall development plan for the entire municipality, then also in the entire municipality, which lost part of its territory, the spatial development plan ceased to apply. Ladies and gentlemen, we have therefore been dealing with the loss of rights acquired by residents who, until this decision, were residents of one commune and, after the decision, became residents of the other commune. This was an abnormal situation, because such a spatial planning plan is adopted with all the rigors of the law, and therefore in due time the plan is presented to citizens for inspection, there is a whole appeal system, the whole democratic system of resolutions of individual committees on the municipal council and at the end of the commune council and is approved by the other institutions. Now as a result of one pull, the plan ceased to apply, which of course created a rather comfortable situation for the buyer of the site, that, by expanding his territory by a fragment of the neighbouring commune, the new buyer, colloquially this name, had quite a comfortable situation, could shape the development in a given area according to his own view. However, we believe that this was a violation of the constitutional rights previously acquired, and at the same time we do not want the new buyer of the land to be incapacitated. Thus, it is an initiative, which boils down to the fact that after the change of borders, a new municipality may introduce its own spatial planning plan in this area, but with such rigors as are required for the adoption of a municipality council which may adopt a spatial planning plan. It seems to us that this will be a situation in which we will respect the acquired rights of residents attached to a larger local government unit, but above all, we will respect the municipality that loses part of its territory, which means we will not bring chaos to the commune, which loses part of its territory, by destroying the entire spatial planning plan. An earlier amendment in this area is precisely a matter of Article. 4, she's already noticed that. Parliament pointed out this when two municipalities were discussed in their entirety. At that time, Parliament stated that the existing acquired rights, i.e. the land-use plan adopted, should continue to apply after the merger of the two municipalities until such time as the plan was amended, in accordance with the procedure for amending the land-use plan. Now that we continue to change these rules earlier, we also extend it to a situation where only a part of the municipality will be attached to the neighbouring local government unit. Law and Justice considers that the acquired rights of residents and the Law and Justice Club should be respected in full support of the Commission's proposal to amend the Municipal Government Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u219	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Jack Protas.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform presents an opinion on the draft law amending the Municipal Government Act. The amendment provides for the mandatory application of local law in the area of planning and spatial planning in the case of a change of boundaries involving a part of the area of one local government unit to the other. In fact, the need for such regulation results from the dangerous, in my opinion, forceful integration of municipalities into other local government units. Recently, the issue of extending the borders of the city of Opola was loud at the expense, above all, of the municipalities of Łobień Wielki, but also of other smaller local government units, where without respect for the opinion of the inhabitants, without agreement between the local authorities concerned, there was so-called. Enemy takeover. Such conduct is unacceptable, contrary to the rule of law, creates negative social emotions and causes a lack of confidence in public authorities. I would like to remind you that the current law contains regulations concerning the merger of local government units or their extension on the basis of consensus and agreement. So, if it had not been for the sad experience of the last months concerning the expansion of Opola, it would probably not have been necessary to change the bill. In order to prevent the repetition of this type of activity, the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy decided at its last meeting in Opole to start work on amending the law on changes in the boundaries of local government units, so that in the future there would be no forceful practices, no respect for the will of the inhabitants. Returning to the contested bill, the Civic Platform club, pragmatically addressing this subject and knowing that today there are appropriate problems with spatial planning plans both in the municipalities that have given up their territory to another unit, and in those which have taken over these areas in one way or another, will support the draft law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u221	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mr Bartosz Józwiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u222	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the law amending the municipal government law. This is a very short bill, which is basically on one side, but very important from the point of view of citizens and local governments. In fact, it has been repeated several times here that it is the essence of a change in territorial scope, whether in cities or municipalities, whereby one municipality surrenders its territory or loses its territory to another municipality or cities, so that, after this change, acts in the form of spatial planning will continue to apply, even though the area has been transferred to another administrative unit, until the entity has adopted its own spatial planning plan for that area. So far, this practice has looked completely different. Very often, when it comes to the land that was taken over from the vending machine as if it was losing power, if this area had it, its existing spatial planning plan, which allowed the new manager to quite freely shape, for example, the issue of permits to carry out various activities in the area. We could, while still residents of one commune, acquire in good faith a building site in an area which, according to the spatial plan, was designed for housing, and in a moment be placed in a situation where our plot, purchased in good faith in such an environment, could be surrounded by, for example, buildings or economic buildings sometimes burdensome to the inhabitants. In this situation, this law is reaching out to residents who are guaranteed that even if the new host wishes to change this plan, it must do so in accordance with the applicable procedure, and then each of these residents has all the rights in the framework of the establishment of this spatial plan. It also faces municipalities because, as has also been said, the practice so far indicated that if this area was covered by a spatial planning plan covering most of the municipality, it was sufficient that the fragment was moved to another municipality, and the whole plan had to be re-established even for this area, which remained with the old municipality. So it was an additional element that acted as if against local governments. In this situation it is a bill expected, unanimously adopted by the committee. The Kukiz Club15 fully supports this law. Of course, we will vote in favour of it and, I hope, with the swiftest possible implementation, which will work out for everyone, and for the residents, and for the local government, for sure for good. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u223	Thank you. And Mr Marek Owa.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u224	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern I have the honour to present the position of the club as to the submitted draft law on the amendment of the law on local government. This amendment to the Act is a very small revision of existing legislation, although it must be said that it is very necessary. The fact that adjustments to the boundaries of municipalities are being made, we know very well. Practically every year a regulation of the Council of Ministers is being adopted on this issue. However, beyond these elements, which are positive, such as the recognition of land-use plans or acts of the local plan in general, this law needs to be looked at in a broader context. In my view - especially in the context of the events that took place last year, but also at the very beginning of the governments, when the Constitutional Tribunal, today we know this, has ruled that the regulation issued in December, repealing the decision to set up two municipalities in the Podlaskie and Lesser Poland voivodships is against the law - we need to look at this in a pragmatic and very precise manner and, as Mr Protas said, secure the municipalities in case of the so-called. Enemy takeover. Of course, there's no problem if the municipalities connect. It's a very desirable model, probably every one of us would want more of these processes to happen. There's also nothing wrong with someone wanting to join a part of their community. If it has an acceptance of the local community, maybe not the whole commune from which it takes over this part, but the inhabitants of this area, who want to take over, have a kind of territorial contract with the inhabitants of this commune, then everything is fine. In Opole's case, we had a completely different situation. Speaking of securing municipalities, I am thinking primarily of financial issues. You are well aware that these issues are absolutely unregulated. Even if 2/3 of the municipality is taken, the entire financial burden remains on the part which remains a separate legal entity, on the part of the municipality which must pay all these liabilities. In general, the situation is that it is calculated, based on two years back, Janoskie, although it will be known that in the near future it will become a recipient of a compensatory subsidy - this part of the income from poverty for the removal of residents, territories, are usually also companies or economic areas. So these issues need to be settled. It seems to me that - and here we will be hoping for some cooperation with the administration committee - when preparing a new committee project in the local government committee we should lean on this topic. I realize that it's perfectly natural to have the aspirations of cities to offer... to expand the surface. Many cities face a development barrier to existing borders. The law must, so to speak, give them such an opportunity, but it should be done transparently, it should be done in a full consultation process, as I said, and yet with respect for those who lose on such changes. Of course, as I said at the beginning, the Modern Posel Club will be behind this bill which has been submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u225	Thank you. And Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u226	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Seym! The Municipal Government Act of 8 March 1990 contains regulations on the issues described in the procedated amendment, where two or more units are merged, resulting in the creation of a new unit. It accepts all obligations and becomes a new legal entity, which means that it enters into the rights and obligations arising from agreements and agreements concluded so far and becomes a party to all administrative and judicial proceedings initiated and not completed. The proposal prepared by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs also proposes similar solutions for changing the boundaries of existing entities, but without creating new entities. Indeed, it would be difficult to accept the differentiation of the situation of the inhabitants according to the nature of the changes in the territorial division of the State, which we are currently dealing with. The legislator assumes that, for an area excluded from the territory of one unit and incorporated into another territory, until new local laws are adopted by the authorities of the unit whose territory has been enlarged, they will be bound by acts relating to the area already adopted but no longer than for a period of 3 years. The regulations contained in the draft law are important not only as regards the issue of local law, which is a multi-stage and long-term procedure, but, above all, from the point of view of the principle of citizens' trust in state authorities. This mostly refers to planning and spatial planning, especially in the situation of a local government unit which has so far absorbed self-contained existence. The municipalities will therefore be able to decide on their own terms on the solutions contained in local legislation on planning and spatial planning in the developed area. The three-year period indicated in the draft law is the time for this local government unit to take appropriate action, to adopt a new spatial planning plan for the included area. In addition, Article. 2 of the draft law assumes that the arrangements set out therein will apply to changes in the territorial division of the State which will take place after the date of entry into force of this Law. Vacatio legis for the entry into force of the Act shall be determined 14 days from the date of its publication. High Izbo! Today's regulation in the opinion of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party raises no objections, and in particular that it will not affect the public finance sector, including the budgets of local government units. Taking all this into account, the Polish People's Party will vote in favour of the report no. 1909. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u227	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Józef Lassot joined the questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask a question? If not, please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u228	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! I have a question for the President, at the same time the rapporteur. During the committee meeting, I raised a case which is not included in this amendment. The amendment concerns only the case of a change of boundaries involving the exclusion of a part of the municipality area and its inclusion in the neighbouring municipality. However, I asked a question at the committee meeting about this situation, when a new municipality is created, for example, from one municipality. two municipalities. And this case isn't settled in that record. Mr President then declared that he would communicate with the government on this matter, that he would consult and present his position. I understand that since there are no comments on this issue, Mr President has not made it, or maybe he has a position. I'd like to know about that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u229	Thank you, sir. Please address the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Minister Sebastian Gwałk. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Ministry of Home Affairs regarding this project, as it is currently being examined at the level of the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers, the position of the Government regarding the Commission's draft law amending the Municipal Government Act in print 1886, and is still in the process of legislative work, which makes it possible for me to speak only on behalf of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. This draft law, of course, responds to the emerging doubt as to the interpretation of the provisions already in force in the Municipal Government Act, which contain the rules proposed in relation to the situation concerning the merger of municipalities, where that provision regulates that local acts retain their validity in this respect. The recent judgments of the administrative courts began to question the appropriateness of this provision to apply in the case of the connection of a fragment of the municipality to another one, and therefore the initiative of the committee is very legitimate in my view and the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration welcomes it and recommends the project to further legislative work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u231	Thank you, Minister. I ask the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u232	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In fact, a brief discussion on the question of Mr Lassota took place at a meeting of the joint committees of government and administration and home affairs. The case which concerns the division of the municipality into two or more units of the local government, because it can also be a large municipality, which can divide, for example, urban, into three, four and more separate units of the local government, is like... The basis for such a decision lies in a completely different philosophy, because here we have a situation in which we are settling the issue of changing borders between municipalities and we are trying to respect the rights acquired by citizens. Mr Bartosz Józwiak, a representative of the Kukiz club15, described this situation very carefully in the case of a single citizen, who, by acquiring a plot in the area for single-family construction, may find himself in a situation after a few years, if this part is attached to the neighbouring municipality, that there will be no more of this plan, which indicates that there is a single-family construction in this place, and it may suddenly turn out that it will have a factory next to each other. So we want to preserve the rights acquired by residents in the area attached to a larger community. In your question, however, there is a kind of profound change in the attitude of the Polish state to the local government at all. This question is in fact a question of whether we want to create a system of incentives for growth, increasing the number of local government units in Poland. And that question already goes beyond the scope of the amendment. Here we wanted to preserve only a certain continuation of what had already been passed in connection with the two municipalities, and preserve the acquired rights of the inhabitants. On the other hand, your question raises the question of amending the entire municipal government law. In my opinion, this would be directly related to the creation of a system - I do not know, I do not decide whether it would be good or bad, I do not settle this, I just say - which would change the situation of the local government, creating a system of incentives for the number of self-government units to increase. You could ask a question following your question: What then, e.g. with investments and loans that were taken for some kind of investment by the entire municipality? The municipality is separated, the investment remains in municipality A. Should the residents of municipality B continue to pay the loan for the investment that remained in municipality A after the separation of these two municipalities? These questions could be continued. That is why, Mr President, in my opinion, this question and this solution you are talking about, and the possible answer - without deciding whether it would be beneficial or not - because I am not suggesting anything here - goes beyond the scope of this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Can I have a corrigendum?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u233	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u234	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Mr President, I think maybe you took my speech a little differently than... It's not about creating an incentive system, is it, because of course you said it. Whether it's right or wrong - it's hard to judge, but it's facts and it can happen, no matter how we judge it, whether it's an incentive or not. I meant that in this respect, in terms of the development plan that this amendment is talking about, this matter could be regulated, because I think there are no obstacles here. And, by the way, I would like to express my surprise that the Minister said that the government was just about to present its position, and there is already a second reading of this project. There's no government position. Mr. Marshal, we're being treated as the Sejm a little unserious since there's a second reading, so we're actually ahead of the vote, and there's no government position. How does this happen? How can a marshal allow such situations? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u235	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the system of military courts (prints 1889 and 1942). I ask Mr Tadeusz Dziuba to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u236	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment of the Law on the system of military courts is a revision of certain provisions of this law resulting from amendments to other laws. For example, soldiers no longer have disciplinary responsibility for an exclusive breach of ethics, which means that the rules on the expiry of the jury's mandate should be amended. The issue is, of course, about the soldiers' jury. In short, this amendment has a sequencing character. The Joint Committees of Justice and National Defence have not tabled any amendments to the government project, with the exception of one small technical and legislative amendment, and have therefore accepted the Government proposal. We call on Members to adopt the amendment proposed by the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u237	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Rafał Weber to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u238	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to express our position in connection with the government's submission, the draft law amending the Law on the system of military courts, i.e. the draft in print no. 1889. This draft law concerns legislative amendments necessary to maintain the coherence of the legal system and resulting from the revision of the laws on the system of universal courts and military discipline. The proposed amendments to this Act include the new wording of the article. 58 § 1 point 8 and the new wording in Article. 70 § 1 introduction to the calculation, as well as giving a new wording to the provision of Article. 70 § Point 1 (7). Change in the wording of the article. 58 § 1 point 8 implies the need to adapt the content of this provision to the wording of the provisions of the Military Discipline Act of 9 October 2009 and Article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 4th Act states that a soldier is not liable for committing an act that violates only the principles of ethics and the dignity and honor of a soldier. In addition, the provision of the Article. 23 of that law provides for the possibility of withdrawal from punishment if the degree of guilt or the degree of harm to disciplinary misconduct is not significant and the characteristics and personal conditions of the soldier and the conduct of his service so far justify the assumption that, despite his withdrawal from the penalty, he will respect military discipline. It is therefore appropriate to amend the wording of the Article. 57 § 1 point 8 - I mentioned this at the beginning - regulating one of the cases of termination of the juror's mandate, which should take place in the event of punishment with a final disciplinary decision, not in the event of a final disciplinary decision being found guilty of a breach of the honor and dignity of the soldier. Such a change in the wording of the provision will result in the juror's term of office not being extinguished if he is found guilty of disciplinary misconduct while at the same time refusing to be punished. Ladies and gentlemen! As you can hear, these are typically technical changes, which are legislative and legal in nature, ordering, adapting this law to, among others. the law on common courts, which is why Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u239	Thank you. Mrs Kinga Gajewska, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u240	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The amendments envisaged in the draft - as you write in the explanatory memorandum - are necessary in view of the consistency of the legal system. It is necessary to adapt the provisions in question in order to prevent the emergence of legal gaps and contradictions. As part of the public consultation and opinion, the draft law was also presented to the National Judicial Council, the first President of the Supreme Court, the National Prosecutor, the Presidents of the Appeals Courts, the Presidents of the Military District Courts, associations of judges and individual working groups, the Chief Bar Council and other trade unions. No comments were received during these consultations and no comments were received, and therefore neither does the Civic Platform make any comments. The draft law was not subject to an opinion by the bodies and institutions of the European Union. We're asking you to move on to your next reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u241	Thank you. Mr Paul Szramka, I ask you to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u242	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Like my previous speakers, I have no major objections to this law. As the applicants have said, this is really tidying up. On the other hand, on this occasion, I wanted to ask whether there is any sense in the operation of military courts, because, as we know, we do not have basic military service and these cases involving soldiers are getting less and less. I'm having second thoughts. Wouldn't common courts be able to deal with these issues so that they wouldn't need to maintain an additional authority such as military courts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u243	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchon, please speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u244	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government draft law amending the Law on the system of military courts after presenting the position of the committee. High Izbo! This draft law amends the Law on the regime of military courts to the provisions of the Law on the system of universal courts. In view of the fact that the Law on the System of General Courts violates the fundamental principles of the rule of law, contrary to the Constitution, it is difficult to consider it appropriate to adapt the system of military courts to the law which violates the rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen! We find it unreasonable to change the jurors' requirements. The change proposed by the government of the PiS gives the opportunity to act as a juror by a person found guilty of violating the honor and dignity of the soldier, though not punished. This amendment is contrary to Article. 55 § 1 of the Act in force, the content of which indicates that a juror may be a soldier, who is an impeccable character and stands out in the performance of his duties and the observance of his professional discipline. The function of a juror is a function requiring public confidence and an excellent opinion, and therefore it cannot be possible to continue to exercise it by those who fail to do so. The proposed relaxation of the rules may consequently lead to the jurors' positions being filled by persons of dubious reputation, which is unacceptable and may cause pathology in the military judicial system. Ladies and gentlemen! The jury, Minister, should be like Caesar's wife. Meanwhile, using similar poetics, you can say that the PiS is going to allow a girl of questionable reputation to act as a juror. Modern will not support such a bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u245	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszik, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u246	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Law on the system of military courts. This proposal concerns legislative changes necessary to maintain the coherence of the legal system and resulting from the revision of the laws on the system of universal courts and on military discipline. Change in the wording of the article. 58 § 1 point 8 implies the need to adapt the content of this provision to the wording of the provisions of the Military Discipline Act of 9 October 2009. In turn, the article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 4th Act states that a soldier is not liable for committing an act that violates only the principles of ethics and the dignity and honor of a soldier. In addition, the provision of the Article. 23 of that law provides for the possibility of withdrawal from punishment if the degree of guilt or the degree of harm to disciplinary misconduct is not significant and the characteristics and personal conditions of the soldier and the conduct of his service so far justify the assumption that, despite his withdrawal from the penalty, he will respect military discipline. Therefore, there is a need to amend the wording of the Article. 58 § 1 point 8 governing one of the cases of termination of the juror's term of office, which should take place in the event of punishment by a final disciplinary decision, and not in the event of a final disciplinary decision being declared guilty of breach of the honor and dignity of the soldier. Such a change in the wording of the provision will result in the juror's term of office not being extinguished if he is found guilty of disciplinary misconduct while at the same time refusing to be punished. The need to give a new sound in the article. 70 § 1 introduction to calculation and content § Point 7 of the Act of 10 July 2015 amending the Law on the Law on the System of General Courts and certain other laws results from the need to adapt the content of these regulations to the amendment introduced by the Law on the Law on the System of General Courts. According to Art. Point 28 of the amending act was repealed. 56 regulating e.g. rules on the separation of free judicial positions by the Minister of Justice. The amendments were related to the institution of the judicial assessor and are currently contained in Article. 20a. In view of the above amendment, in view of the existence of a reference in this respect, without amending Article. 70 § 1 becomes impossible to appoint a new judge in military court despite the existence of an unestablished post. High Izbo! The draft sets out the Law on the system of military courts, adapting it to other acts adopted in recent years. In this context, it raises no major doubts and should be further examined. On the other hand, the final position of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club in relation to this project will depend on the shape that it will eventually take. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u247	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. High Izbo! Since we are waiting for the Minister to consider another point, I would like to apologize and announce a five-minute technical break. I hope the Minister will be here by then. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 min. 37 hours 14 min 48]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the legal environment of innovative activities (print No. 1934). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education of Minister Łukasz Szumowski to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the legal environment of innovative activities is the aim of the exposé, which is to create the conditions for deeper cooperation between science and business. This project is already the second stage of the improvement of the conditions of innovative activity after the so-called 4 November 2016. the first Innovation Act. It was prepared during the work of the Council and the Interministerial Team on Innovation, in particular in close cooperation with the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Finance. The thematic scope of the draft law was established in the process of extensive consultation, which resulted in the White Paper on Innovation. On-line consultations were held and 340 proposals were submitted and a number of meetings were held with representatives of the scientific community and entrepreneurs and non-governmental organisations. Selected issues due to the specialized and many-required subject matter are regulated under separate laws, and in particular so-called. implementation doctorates, which were established on 21 April 2017, or the Research Network: Łukasiewicz, on which work is underway, and a simple public limited company - works in this area are coordinated by the Ministry of Development. On 26 April, the project was included in the list of legislative work of the Council of Ministers and on 10 October was adopted by the Council of Ministers. The changes included in this proposal are, first, tax changes, an increase in the amount of tax relief due to R &amp; D activities up to 100% and for R &amp; D centers up to 150%. Prior to the entry into force of the First Innovation Act, 30% of personal costs could be deducted from the tax base and, as far as other costs are concerned, only 20% for micro-enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises and 10% for small and medium-sized enterprises. in the case of other traders. Currently 50% of personal costs can be deducted from the tax base, and for other costs 50% for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and 30% for other entrepreneurs. The draft law provides for an increase in the reduction to 100% costs incurred regardless of the size of the undertakings. Moreover, in the case of companies with R &amp; D centre status, 150% can be deducted costs incurred. The intention of this proposal is to stimulate entrepreneurs to bear such expenditure, in particular those with financial and organisational capacity and identified research needs. The second important solution concerns the catalogue of eligible costs for R &amp; D relief, extended by non-permanent measures, other than the employment contract. R &amp; D centres receive a number of cost catalogues related, among others. with real estate. It is envisaged that some companies operating outside the special economic zones may benefit from the R &amp; D relief and that the exemption from the so-called R &amp; D exemption should be extended until 2023. taxation of capital companies, limited-liability companies involved in R &amp; D activities. The second area is science and higher education. We propose to increase the scope of activities of special purpose companies created by universities, the Polish Academy of Sciences and scientific institutes on economic activity, to enable the creation by universities and scientific institutes of the Polish Academy of Sciences of Companies to manage research infrastructure, also jointly with research institutes, and to provide the Ministry of Science and Higher Education with legal instruments to monitor the fate of PhD students, similar to the currently functioning instrument for monitoring the fate of graduates, which has worked well and which is an excellent tool for observing what directions they look like in terms of employment. We propose deregulation of the procedure for establishing the Polish Road Map of Research Infrastructure, eliminating the obligation to issue a regulation and introducing a periodic review of the maps. The third area is organisational changes in institutions which create a broadly understood business environment, new instruments to support innovation for the Ministry of Development, the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development and the National Centre for Research and Development, introducing the possibility for the Ministry of Development to announce programmes in the area of innovation of the economy concerning, among others. innovative products, social services, pro-innovation competences or internationalisation - under such programmes, the Minister will be able to provide financial assistance - to introduce the possibility for PARP and NCBR to use financial instruments, to provide financial assistance of a returnable nature, such as: guarantees or capital support. So far, PARP has only been able to provide financial assistance in non-refundable forms, as well as loans, while the NCBR has only limited ability to create companies. Non-tax regulatory changes concern R &amp; D centres. The aim is to extend the possibility of obtaining CBR status at a lower revenue ceiling - from 2.5 million to 5 million, but with a higher required percentage of revenues from sales of R &amp; D results - the current model is revenues - 5 million, including 20% from sales of R &amp; D - clarification of changes in the law on the NCBR, internal organisational changes, clarification of the grounds for appealing members and collegial bodies, or a change in the scope of the committee's activities, the NCBR board. There are also changes concerning patent attorneys, changes in the state of the professional self-government of patent attorneys, exclusion of passive and active electoral right in elections to local authorities in the case of suspended patent attorneys, including as a result of employment in public administration, increased transparency of the action of patent attorneys' self-government, extension of the scope of the Office of Technical Supervision to promote science and technology. The liquidation of the Technological Credit Fund aims at reducing the time of the transfer of funds under the Operational Programme (Smart Development) for the years 2014 to 2020. In conclusion, we would like this law to enter into force 30 days after the date of the announcement, with the exception of the tax rules on R &amp; D centres and the programmes of the Minister of Development. We propose that they should apply from 1 January 2018. I just want to remind you that so-called. The first Innovation Act was adopted unanimously by the Sejm. The project contains tax solutions, which is why we are very committed to maintaining specific standards in the process of adopting them, including maintaining a sufficiently long vacathio legis, so as to provide taxpayers with the opportunity to become familiar with the solutions adopted earlier. We therefore ask you to proceed with the bill as quickly as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u249	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And please speak on behalf of Mr Wojciech Murdzk's Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u250	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the legal environment of innovative activities, print No. 1934, is the second stage of the actions of Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin, Minister of Science and Higher Education, aiming to create a favourable environment for innovation development in Poland. I would like to remind you that the first stage was the Act of 4 November 2016 amending certain laws laying down the conditions for the conduct of innovative activities. It is worth noting that the Minister for Science and Higher Education conducted an in-depth public consultation before drafting the bill. Their result was the preparation based on opinions of environments creating an innovation ecosystem in Poland, i.e. entrepreneurs, scientists, investors, NGOs or administrations, so-called: The White Paper on Innovation, a full description of the barriers to innovation development. Given the very broad thematic scope of the project - it includes changes in 13 laws - I would like to make briefly the most important proposals contained in it. The first of the thematic blocks are tax changes. As it seems, the most important change proposed in this area is to increase the amount of tax relief for R &amp; D to 100% costs incurred, regardless of the size of the trader. Let us remind you that, before the first Innovation Act came into force, 30% of the personnel costs could be deducted and, in the case of other costs, 20 or 10% could be deducted. , depending on the size of the entrepreneur. It should be considered particularly important to equalise the amount of the relief and, as a result, to waive the lower relief for large businesses. It must be borne in mind that they have more potential to spend on R &amp; D. It is also worth noting the proposal in the draft law to extend the catalogue of eligible costs, in particular to other than employment contracts for research and development activities. In particular, the Minister for the Development of programmes in the area of innovation in the economy, which will finance the introduction of innovative products and services, or social pro-innovation competences, seems particularly important. New forms of operation of the National Centre for Research and Development and the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development in the form of financial instruments are also introduced, particularly the feedback instruments are of interest, which will help to offset market failures by the fact that innovative projects cannot always obtain market funding. Feedback instruments are characterised by providing opportunities to support more projects in a much longer time horizon and potentially renewable sources of capital. It is also worth mentioning changes to the rules governing the procedure for obtaining the status of the R &amp; D centre and granting these centres an increased, 150-percent tax credit, the introduction of statutory guarantees for the transparency of the operation of the professional self-government of patent attorneys and the extension of the scope of the Office of Technical Supervision to promote science and technology. Another area covered by the draft law is science and higher education. The project aims to extend the capacity of scientific units in the form of companies, including the possibility for universities and scientific institutes of the Polish Academy of Sciences to create companies for the management of research infrastructure, extends the scope of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education monitoring of the fate of graduates with PhD students and simplifies the procedure for establishing the Polish road map of research infrastructure. Today's bill must be assessed positively. It should be stressed that the projector not only envisages an extension of the public support system for entrepreneurs, but also proposes a number of deregulation solutions which should facilitate the taking up and pursuit of innovative activities. With this in mind, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the draft law on amending certain laws presented in print no. 1934 in order to improve the legal environment [[♪ The bell ♪]] innovative activities and is in favour of bringing them back to work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u251	Thank you, sir. Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u252	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The bill, which we are talking about here at the moment, amends 13 laws. The aim of this project is to eliminate or reduce barriers to innovative activities and to increase the attractiveness of tax instruments supporting innovative activities in Poland. Any project that is designed to improve the conditions for entrepreneurs and develop companies always has a positive response and is always expected in principle. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been building a new technological and organizational level of companies in Poland for many of the last years. This was done mainly by investing in proven modern solutions, in those that already functioned. At the same time, it was known that there was a need to create our own, new, innovative solutions to improve the competitiveness of our economy. In recent years, despite the economic crisis, as far as possible, efforts have been made to do so. He served it, among others. Operational Programme.Innovative economy. A very good instrument was the Technological Credit Fund, which was founded. During the negotiations on the next perspective of the EU budget for the years 2014 and 2020 the overarching objective was innovation, innovation created in cooperation between business and scientific, research and development units. This has been managed to save and prepare in the programme "Smart Development," which is addressed to enterprises, scientific units, consortia of enterprises, scientific units and business environment institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, now is the time for further steps, which are included among others. in this bill. But this project, apart from the fact that it arouses great interest and expectations of entrepreneurs, scientists, R &amp; D institutions, will be proceded here in the Seym at a time when there is a great decline in confidence in the legislative process. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I will refer here to the justification and the purpose of this regulation. The legal environment is to be improved to remove and reduce barriers to innovation. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the biggest barrier to business today? [[Politicians.]] The biggest barrier, ladies and gentlemen, is to stop investment. Why? And innovation is investment. These are mostly investments. Why? Because entrepreneurs, experts agree that bad legislation under the PiS is the main reason why their investment activity is stopped. I will quote here the conclusion from the report of one of the employers' organizations: The positive effect of numerous deregulation changes included in the package - talking about 100 changes for companies - has been diluted with a whole wave of bad for business law. Ladies and gentlemen, at the last meeting of the Sejm, the Civic Platform proposed to improve the legislative process for entrepreneurs, so that it is predictable, clear, analysed, with an indication of the effects that are very important for entrepreneurs. And what happened, ladies and gentlemen? At first reading, this project was rejected. Why? Because it was said that we would have our own project. It was a political decision. I very much regret that deregulation supporters also unfortunately voted in favour of this, and they did not even want to work on it in committee. That's too bad, ladies and gentlemen. This is where I turn to the right side of the steel. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I am afraid that there are no guarantees, even though it will be a good bill, because after work in committee it may be that it will not be diluted with other political moves. Because suddenly it can happen that every day political need will be such that you will need e.g. introduce a new trade tax. It's not going to be consulted or analyzed with anyone, and it's going to happen. Or maybe. You will have to reduce your business in some way. That's what we're discussing today. It was supposed to be a committee meeting in the Sejm this morning, but it's postponed for the evening. There's talk of reducing trade activity on Sunday. Ladies and gentlemen, this makes the predictability of the effects of this law subject to a very large question mark. And now I'm going to go back to this project, ladies and gentlemen. Although we also have our comments and proposals on this bill, we will not ask for this project to be rejected at first reading, modeling the right side of the room, because we are serious. We will work on this in committee and see what the final shape of the bill will come up. Then we will discuss whether we continue to support him or not. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u253	Thank you, Member. Mr Jakub Kulesza, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u254	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Government bill amending certain laws to improve the legal environment of innovative activity - that sounds very good. As far as content is concerned, it should generally be assessed positively, but there are shortcomings in this draft. Poland must start catching up with other European countries in innovation. In the European Commission's ranking of this year we took 4th place, but from the end, defeating only Croatia, Romania and Bulgaria. Before us there were countries as close to us as Latvia, Lithuania and Hungary. It is very strange that in these countries there are much less regulated professions than in Poland. Our level of innovation is still twice as low as the EU average. So there's a lot to do in this field. As far as the law is concerned, the positive effects include, first of all, an increase in the maximum deduction of all eligible costs of R &amp; D activities from the basis for calculating the tax to 100%. , and for entrepreneurs with R &amp; D status - up to 150%. The second plus is the extension of the catalogue of eligible expenditure, i.e. tax relief. The third point is to clarify that the eligible costs may be the salaries and contributions of workers who spend only part of their working time on R &amp; D. The last positive side of this project is to abandon the Innovation Fund in companies with R &amp; D status and replace it with an additional catalogue of eligible costs, among others. such as depreciation costs for buildings, buildings and premises used for research and development work. But as you know, what it's like in politics, especially in legislation, there's no rose without thorns. Any project, no matter how good, can also include negative issues. New information obligations are among the negative sides of this project. This, too, is one of the reasons for such low innovation of the Polish economy - it is precisely about bureaucracy, over-information obligations. Instead of wondering how to innovatively provide innovative services for Poles, for consumers, for customers, the Polish entrepreneur wonders how to accommodate the next officials here. The entity benefiting from the public aid relief mentioned by me will be required to provide the head of the tax office with information on the state aid proceedings, including information on the value of the State aid received under the Act, broken down by type of eligible costs. The second point: Zone operators, which have so far been completely deprived of the right to benefit from research and development benefits, will be entitled to do so, but only to a limited extent. And here is the question: Why only to a limited extent, why not entirely? If these reliefs are so good, let's give them to zone operators in their entirety. Another downside is that the planned changes introduce special preferences in the use of R &amp; D credits by entities with R &amp; D centre status. There is a danger that this status will be given in an uneven way, that it will be tempted to give this status to friendly companies. We've talked so much about honesty, about previous governments. This does not result from the fact that dishonest people push into politics, perhaps also, but from the fact that temptation simply makes a thief. The less temptations like this, the simpler the law and the less decision-making of the official, the better. Another minus is: in order to benefit from the benefits, an interpretation of the tax office, the tax office or the opinion of the Central Statistical Office or the scientific unit confirming that the company actually carries out an innovative activity should be obtained. How do you think the tax authorities will want to give such positive opinions and reliefs to companies and have less tax revenue or not? In my opinion, this is a very weak choice when it comes to the judge who will define it. There is also no solution proposed by KPP Leviatan for the placement of intellectual property rights in Poland, i.e. the introduction of the so-called law. innovation box. And last but not least, the cost for a budget of PLN 1 billion per year. But it should be noted that these are costs and positive and negative. Positive are these tax reliefs, negative are issues related to administration and bureaucracy. So, for now, we're looking at this bill, and we're gonna be together. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Her Watch. We hope that the negatives will be improved during the committee work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u255	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Jaros, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u256	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to present a statement on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the legal environment of innovative activities, print No 1934. The project concerns a number of legal changes to improve the regulatory environment for innovative activities. That's for example. tax changes, extension of the possibility of obtaining CBR statutes, changes in the scope and form of activities of the National Centre for Research and Development and the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development, creating the possibility for the Minister responsible for the economy to separate aid under programmes in the area of innovation. During the consultation of this project, many comments and doubts emerged. E.g. The Association for the Protection of Industrial Property and the Association of Patent Ombudsmen paid attention to the limitation of access to local government information. The members of the local government will only have an insight into the resolutions and reports of the local government. As was rightly pointed out, the Act should retain the provision previously proposed to allow access to all local documents. A lot of doubt was also raised during the consultation on eligible costs. As the Union of Polish Banks has advocated, expertise, opinions and advisory services carried out not only by scientific entities but also by ordinary economic operators should also be considered as eligible costs. As the Polish Association of Pharmaceutical Industry Employers drew attention, the catalogue of costs should also be extended to the costs of registration of biological and biosimilar medicines, but this remark, like the attention of the Polish Banks Associations, has also not been taken into account. We believe that it will be taken into account at the level of work in the Sejm committees. Questions are also raised in the record relating to the monitoring by the Minister responsible for vocational education, inter alia. students, graduates of higher education and PhD students. The Minister will provide information to the Social Insurance Institution, which will then return data supplemented by the code of the insured person, generated in the Social Security Office, the title code of the insurance whether the premium payer's code. Finally, the results of such monitoring will be made available on the website of the Office serving the Minister for Higher Education. However, there are doubts here that the data of the persons covered will be properly protected and that any sensitive data will not be made public. In view of the above, the Modern thinks that it should be created... We therefore ask your marshal to refer the project to an emergency committee composed of three permanent committees - as was the case with the previous law, a small law on innovation - to three competent committees: the Committee on Public Finance, the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies. We are all aware that, in order to improve the competitiveness of our economy, we must also increase its innovation, and that is why we consider the bill to be a step in the right direction, but we should work together in this extraordinary committee, a committee composed of three committees, composed of representatives of these three committees, on each of its various provisions. And I hope that all her comments and ours will be taken into account at the level of the work of the Sejm committees. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u257	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u258	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is good that we are trying to enter the innovation field, because innovation is very important from the point of view of economic development, because this is going to be the beginning of our economic development. The economy in turn should be competitive, and this is not easy in a globalised world today. Neither in Europe nor in the world is it easy to break through with a competitive product that will sell well. It's all about inventions that we don't miss, because we have talented young people who have ideas for innovation that aren't always implemented, because then there's not enough force to do it, and unfortunately it ends up somewhere in a basket, big money, a big effort devoted to research work is being destroyed. But in terms of the economy and later the functioning of this economy, we need to pay attention to what entrepreneurs are talking about today, namely the stability of the law. We have not had such an unstable right so far, and that is why entrepreneurs are often afraid to invest, and already foreign entrepreneurs who would like to invest anything with us, even retreat, flee. The increase in administrative responsibilities and information is also extremely high. At the moment, practically no one is wondering whether there will be more than one report or two, whether it will be tens or hundreds of billions of losses, costs for entrepreneurs, because that is how it has to be counted, in tens and sometimes even in hundreds of billions in terms of administrative responsibilities. And we should still have it somewhere in the back of our head, how to reduce these administrative responsibilities, because it's non-investment-free, without the cost of progress and helping entrepreneurs. Another thing today is the problem of young people, educated, very capable people who are leaving, and the potential of our economy is also decreasing. That is why we should - unfortunately, what was promised to stop our citizens from going abroad - continue to work on this - have failed. The Polish People's Party has a number of projects in this area. This is certainly not the ideal solution, because it is difficult to say that something is perfect here, but such attempts should be made, because if we do not keep our citizens in the country, we will find it difficult to meet all these challenges when it comes to economic development. We support the proposal because we cannot say that we will not think about it and we will do nothing about it. This is a step towards solving these problems and these difficulties, but expectations are much greater - expectations of entrepreneurs, expectations of our companies. And as I said, legal stability, tax stability, reduction of administrative responsibilities, information, these are very important tasks and challenges today, because without this we are unable to meet all these expectations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u259	Thank you very much, too. I would like to ask Małgorzata Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni. The honourable Member has provided a written statement. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz has the floor. Question time - 1.5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u260	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, modern is in favour of handing this project over to the committee. I think we can work there together to make this project the best possible. It is pleased that this is one of the few projects that has been so strongly and widely consulted. It is a joy that in such an important matter that will determine the future of Poland, indeed many environments have had the opportunity to express themselves. Only such a specific question: Which national employers' organisations had the opportunity to comment on this law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u261	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u262	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is a bill expected, announced, and very well that it was placed under the Sejm's deliberations. I would like to ask the Minister: What is the scope and nature of the amendments contained in the draft law concerning the extension of the eligible costs for research and development actors? I would like to say that some suggestions and requests have been included in the White Paper on Innovation. And I would like to ask if these requests and suggestions were noticed and taken into account when writing the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u263	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, Łukasz Szumowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for these comments and questions. I would like to thank you for the fact that all the votes were positive and that this bill will be proceded. We are very interested in the timely process because this project concerns taxes of Polish citizens. Therefore, we would ask once again for a very efficient and rapid procedure in committee. We are convinced that the proposal for a deregulation committee is appropriate because the project takes into account important deregulations and changes in R &amp; D activities. As to the comments, I would like to remind you that the Polish employers considered the previous first innovative law as the best law of this term. So I hope that this law will also be satisfactory for the employers of the Polish Republic and that it will be considered even better. As regards the special economic zones - they have their separate reliefs, so we would not like to duplicate the benefits and generate double profits in companies for this reason. As regards the association of spokespersons - Mr Jaros' remark, we have also obtained confirmation from the General Data Inspector that this is an appropriate range of access to information on work. As regards reporting to the Ministry of Development, Mr Kasprzak's comments. We do not propose any new reports by any means, this is the same report that entrepreneurs have to submit to the CSO anyway. We only propose that these reports should be available to the Ministry of Development, because so far the Ministry could not fall within the scope of these reports submitted to the CSO, they were covered by statistical confidentiality. About the question about who consulted who the employers were. Of course, almost all employers' associations have necessarily consulted on this. Mr Meysztowicz asked about this. Of course, Leviathan, the employers of the Republic of Poland, but in general this was addressed to all those who are associated with the Council of Social Dialogue. We have a positive opinion of the Social Dialogue Council, which brings together more than 100 of these associations. And last remark, Mrs Michalek. The costs are in line with the White Paper, but they are so modified that we did not want preference for any sector. It is very important that any type of activity, any entrepreneur, can benefit from an extension of the eligible costs. Therefore, with the White Paper, of course, we created this catalogue so that it would not prefer any sector, any direction. Finally, I would like to mention that we have just received an OECD report on entrepreneurship and innovation in the field of higher education, which is very happy because it is a report that confirms our orientations and confirms that our proposal is in line with the expectations and proposals of OECD experts. I would also like to say that this law was widely consulted - again with reference to Mr Meysztowicz's question and comment. Of course, in our Ministry of Laws, they are very widely consulted for a long time with all stakeholders and all persons willing to consult. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u265	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u266	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The impact assessment for this draft law shows that income tax revenue for local government units will be reduced in the short term as part of the share of personal and corporate income tax. Questions: How does the government intend to compensate for the loss of these revenues to local government units? Has the loss rate of this income been measured? Does the Ministry of Finance have an analysis on the impact assessment of financial instruments applied under the Act amending certain laws in order to improve the legal environment of innovative activities, which entered into force on 1 January 2017, on the growth of investment in R &amp; D in Poland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u267	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the legal environment of innovative activities. The aim of the proposed law is to remove and reduce the main barriers to innovation and to make tax instruments more attractive. The bill responds to social expectations in the business community, scientific units and investors. It should be pointed out here that the implementation of the measures envisaged will contribute to achieving the objectives set out in the Responsible Development Plan of the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Matusz Morawiecki. It is very exciting that the law is horizontal in nature. Such an approach to the Polish economy and increasing its level of innovation, and thus competitiveness will positively affect the perception of the Polish economy on the international stage. In addition, the Act aims to create a legal, institutional and organisational environment that will foster innovative processes. At this point, it should also be recalled that this is the second phase of the change, which aims to improve the legal environment for innovative activities. The White Paper on Innovation has identified these solutions that we cannot achieve without legislative changes, e.g. tax relief. The proposed bill introduces a number of amendments, including: a very large increase in the tax credit for R &amp; D activities or changes in higher education by extending the capacity of higher education institutions in the form of capital companies. I believe that the changes made will contribute to a significant increase in the level of innovation of the Polish economy, which will translate into an increase in the competitiveness of enterprises and an increase in demand for their production. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u268	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the legal environment of innovative activities, contained in print No 1934, to the Extraordinary Committee on Deregulation for consideration. In the discussion, a proposal was made to refer the bill to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth, the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies, as well as the Committee on Public Finance. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 mins 28 hours 15 min 35]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act (Print No 1871). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr. Michał Woś to present the justification for the bill. Excuse me. Minister Zbigniew Ziobro. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u269	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Criminal policy is at first sight, the first association of each Pole, as defined in the Criminal Codes, of repression against those who have exceeded the criminal standard and committed crimes. But criminal policy is also the creation of a framework of legal order that justifies the conviction of every decent, honest man that, if he becomes the subject of an attack, an assassination which is criminal and illegal, the law will stand on his side, the State will stand by his side and support him with all its power, power of authority, not only through the criminal acts of the institution, but also through legal solutions that guarantee the person defending the legal order and, first of all, in the defence of the legal goods that concern him or her, the advantage over the assailant, over the situation in which the assailant was found. And so is the design of the defence necessary in the Penal Code. She's got a long story. On the other hand, it is not always in conjunction with such thinking of the necessary defence, which is subject to, one can say, the natural natural human right to defend its rights, especially fundamental rights, not always with such thinking of the particular character of the right to defend the necessary practice, the actions of law enforcement authorities and the judicial practice of the Polish courts. And it is precisely in view of this practice that we committed ourselves even during the election campaign under the good change programme that we will not only make a fundamental change in the way law enforcement acts, in this sense, in order to discourage criminals from committing them even in the pre-field, not only have we committed that, if there is already a crime, the law will guarantee a fair payback for the evil done by the criminal, especially if it is an evil connected with a very serious, serious crime against health, freedom, human life, but also have committed that we will become even stronger and more clearly on the side of those defending themselves who defend their legal assets, which have become the subject of an attack by the perpetrator, the perpetrator, the criminals. We will make this clear by amending the rules governing criminal liability in the area of the necessary defence and crossing its borders in such a way that persons who are householders live in their own home, housing, stay on their own property, fenced territory, have the belief that even if the borders of the necessary defence are exceeded, even if the authorities of the State assess that the means of defence is a means of crossing the necessary limit of defence, those persons will not be liable for criminal liability, unless such crossing would be gross. There is no doubt that there is a problem in the Polish legal practice related to the application, proper application of the necessary institutions of defence, this counter-attribution, or circumstances which, as a rule, exclude criminal liability because the person defending himself - in this sense, carrying out the marks of the prohibited type set out in the Penal Code - is committed an act which, because of the circumstances of this defence, excludes the unlawfulness or exclusion of guilt and is not a crime. It seems that, in many cases, events that should be properly qualified and judged as conduct that are precisely in the necessary defence, as circumstances that exclude criminality at all, whether it is unlawful, whether it is the prosecution's fault or the prosecution's, and unfortunately also that the courts are making a very conservative, restrictive, sometimes and heartless interpretation of the law and consequently those who effectively defend themselves against the act of the assailant bear an undeserved criminal responsibility, and before that they will experience a number of disadvantages related to the action of the law enforcement apparatus itself, the law enforcement machine, later the judicial system. In order to place another accent and signal, also to those authorities, that the Polish State is very clearly on the side of the defending person who is attacked, especially in domestic conditions, the conditions which for each Pole are a space related to the sense of security, and that in such situations it is necessary to examine in a particular way any case of crossing the border of defence necessary, we are presenting this project. Through this change, we also want to make it very clear that a person defending himself in his own home, apartment, fenced territory can count on a greater understanding from law enforcement authorities and has the right to expect this, even if the limits of the necessary defence are exceeded. It is natural that the assailant who commits an attack on such a particular place, which is connected with the sense of security of every Pole, must face the negative consequences of his behaviour. Moreover, by nature, in the vast majority of cases, the attacker has a certain advantage. This advantage is due to a surprise that often accompanies a person who has been assaulted or assaulted. It is also an additional argument that the defender must have additional support, an additional sense of security related to taking effective defence. And yet another very important element that accompanies this - everyone assaulted under such conditions should be convinced that he can effectively take defensive action against the attacker and need not be afraid, need not be afraid, he does not need to be paralyzed by fear and imagination related to what will happen later, when possibly law enforcement authorities recognize that he has committed to exceed the necessary limits of defence. This, you can say, psychological element is extremely important, because emotions are often the dominant circumstances in the assessment of a situation that usually happens very dynamically, connected with this kind of assault, assault, violent intrusion into the territory of the apartment, house, property. Usually it is the emotions that make the way of defending sometimes disproportionate to the nature of the attacker's attacks and actions. However, we believe that in such a situation the legislator is guilty of guaranteeing impunity to the person defending himself. This applies only to situations where, from the point of view of every sober-minded man, this defence is grossly disproportionate to the circumstances of the event. Such situations can also happen. We have, for example, a classic example, known to every student in the textbook descriptions, concerning children who enter the garden to steal the proverbial apple. This does not justify and in no way justifies actions which could lead to significant harm to the health or life of such children. This kind of crossing of the borders of the defence necessary is not justified and will not be justified by such solutions, but in all cases related to the real entry of the assailant into the area guaranteed by the State as a safe area for all citizens of our country, if this intrusion is linked to the willingness to assassinate property, health, not to mention life, always and without exception, the state must provide additional support, additional security to the person defending himself by signaling it: if even by his own means of defence, its intensity, the means which you will use, the tools which you will use, exceed acceptable and today accepted in the light of doctrine, legal knowledge, but also judicial case law, you will not suffer consequences, because the law cannot give way against lawlessness, especially in such an area as should be a guarantee, a sacred guarantee of security for every man and every citizen. It is in the Anglo-Saxon legal doctrine that this is the view that my home is my claim. A view that actually gives the right to all defensive actions that are aimed at the good of the attacker, including the deprivation of his life. We are not going that far, but we are expanding this scope of understanding of the defence necessary in the sense of practical application of this institution. We extend not so much the concept of the necessary defence, interpreted as an exclusion of lawlessness, an exclusion of guilt, also as a consequence of exclusion of crime, as we extend the application in practice of this institution to those events, when the law enforcement authorities or the prosecution or courts conclude that we are dealing with a breach of the limits of the necessary defence, but this excess occurs under the conditions described in the proposed submission, i.e. under conditions connected with the defence of the place which is for each Polish saint and which should be linked to the guarantee of the security of everyone who lives on the premises of their home, apartment or fenced territory. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not escape, of course, by proposing any solutions relating to the scope of the necessary defence, from the use of the marks of evaluation, i.e. the elements constituting the description of what is necessary for the defence, where there are limits to its exceedance, which is related to a certain assessment. Our imagination about the various events that may occur does not allow us to accurately, objectively define the boundaries in respect of each case and any circumstances that may occur, it is simply impossible. Criminal law in this area must by nature be synthetic, not casuistic. And if we choose the path of synthetic shots, we also cannot go into casuistics and imagine various circumstances that could be described in a much more precise language. And this is the way of all modern legal orders in the world, without exceptions, including even the Anglo-Saxon system, which often goes into larger casuistics, colloquially speaking, but also this casuistics has its limit, which ultimately comes down to the assessment of the event, whether it is necessary or not to cross the boundaries of defence. We want to give a clear signal in this submission that the Polish state is on the side of the assaulted, honest Pole who has the right, when criminal action is taken against him, to defend himself effectively at the expense of the attacker's well-being. Even if it exceeds the limits of the necessary defence, it must be sure that the State will stand by it, because the law cannot give way to lawlessness, and the State should respect this principle especially when the matter is carried out in the territory of the place of residence, house or fenced area where the person who is attacked is present and in which area it has the right to expect that it will be protected and safe. It is not always possible for the state to react to the attack by the attacker, by the criminal, for objective reasons, we all know that, and it is not always possible to inform law enforcement and the police that there is a trial or intrusion or burglary. Usually the assailant acts by surprise, things happen very quickly, dynamically. But even if it were possible, the defence cannot be interpreted, as is unfortunately the case in part of the Polish doctrine, in such a way that it is an institution really of a subsidiary nature, i.e. it applies. when and only when there is no other way of averting a criminal's action. No, defence is necessary for human rights, an entity law which entitles each of us, if he wishes, to effectively counter the criminal, to defend effectively at the expense of the attacker's well-being, even if he is deprived of his life in drastic situations. May such situations be as few as possible, and may they be as rare as possible, but we must make it clear that the law cannot evade lawlessness and that an honest person cannot be afraid of a criminal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u270	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen! Our debate is listened to by students from primary school with secondary classes from Sokółek in Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship. Welcome. [[Applause]] The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I present the position of the club Law and Justice on the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act, print No. 1871. I would like to warn you that the defense needed in five minutes is quite an art, but unfortunately, club appearances are only five minutes. Several hundred pages of doctoral dissertations, habilitation and comments on the necessary defence were created. 25 of the Penal Code, and even before that - to art. 22 of the 1969 Criminal Code This draft amends the article. 25 Penal Code by the addition of § 2a, who repeals the criminality of the person being attacked, or an excendent, in a situation where the border of the defence necessary to resist the unlawful direct attack of breaking into the apartment, the premises, the house or the adjacent fenced area. This criminality would not be waived in situations where it would be necessary to exceed the boundaries of the defence, i.e. where the means of defence or the measures used for this purpose would, of course, be disproportionate to the threat arising from the attacker's behaviour. Evaluation of existing practice of the application of Article. 25 The Penal Code leads to the conclusion that the criteria of proportionality of the defence, the High Sejm, laid down in § 1 and 3 of this Article, have been applied very rarely by our courts. The most common error made by the courts was to assess the danger of an assassination without taking into account subjective elements, from an ex post position, i.e. after the fact, while the correct assessment is ex ante, i.e. in a situation where the assaulted person chooses specific means of defence and this defence must lead to an appropriate criminal response. The right to defence is one of the most important rights. It's a social sense of justice. We must not allow the predator and his welfare to be privileged, and this will be at the expense of the person who was assaulted. A general aspect is also important. Every potential bomber has to face the right of everyone to effectively resist the assassination. In this case, the location of the attack is important: dwellings. It is not possible to agree with such voices that this amendment is unnecessary because it is § Article 3 25 Penal Code. Please note that this § 3 speaks only of the subjective side, i.e. the defence necessary under the influence of fear or agitation justified by the circumstances of the assassination, and here we have an extension to this place and of course § 3 is not disabled, § 3 can also be used. Violation of a private individual's sphere is particularly socially harmful and such a person has the right to take proportionate measures to counter the attack on its well-being. I would also like to stress that identical or similar legal solutions are in the United States, in the United Kingdom, as Minister Ziobro said, as well as in the Czech Republic and Sweden. I think this solution is very good. On behalf of the club, I declare that we are in favour of this project and request that it be given a further legislative course and that it be referred to the Extraordinary Commission for changes in codification. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u272	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Osos, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u273	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform will present its position on the draft amendments to the Penal Code Act. The designer proposes to add a further paragraph, i.e. to the applicable defence laws. § 2a, according to which the penalty will not be imposed by a person who exceeds the limits of the necessary defence, where he resists an unlawful attempt to enter an apartment, a premises, a house or a fenced area adjacent to it. The provision will not apply to cases where the boundaries of the defence need to be exceeded flagrantly. For me, it is clear to the Platform that everyone has the right to defend, that the law cannot defend the person who commits the crime, and that the citizen must respond to acts of aggression without fear and fear of criminal liability. It is therefore worth recalling that as early as 2010 we introduced a provision which abolishes the criminal liability in the event of a breach of the limits of the defence necessary under the influence of fear or extortion justified by circumstances. It is worth noting that this regulation does not restrict the waiver of liability only to one case, i.e. when the crossing of this border takes place at home or in a fenced property, because illegal attacks occur everywhere. It should be noted that rules already apply today, which give everyone the right to defend themselves and repeal criminality when the limits of that defence are exceeded. There is also a question in the comments that influenced the project as to whether this additional regulation is needed. In the explanatory memorandum, you claim that one of the reasons for the amendment is the assessment of the existing practice of the law, which indicates that there are too many cases of unjustified omission of the provisions of the Article. Article 25 (1) to (3) of the Criminal Code. Today, the Minister of Justice is also the Attorney General, and if you indicate such a reason, perhaps the Attorney General can't cope with the overzealousness of some prosecutors. Ladies and gentlemen, there is little we can do to create further casuistic regulations, because, as I will remind you, this provision only applies to cases where the border of defense has been crossed at the premises, at the apartment or at home. The question is, what if someone assaults me in my car, what if it happens in a shopping mall? So that it may turn out that casuistics will not solve the problem until the approach of those who apply the law changes, i.e. the awareness that everyone has the right to defend and that on this side the state should stand. I would also like to support the opinion that has influenced this project, and this is the opinion of the Prosecutor General - the Minister refers to it - and it points out that, by criticising the judicial practice to date, you are based on very outdated materials. You recall, for example. Judgment of 1969, three judgments of the 1980s, and yet the last changes took place in 2010. So this analysis should be about the last few years. As the Attorney General points out, it has carried out such an analysis and it follows from it that the courts today grant citizens the right to defend the necessary and apply this right as the Minister imagines it, i.e. that the defender may use all means and means of defence, so that the way of defence does not remain in a gross, excessive imbalance in the assassination. So when I ask who's right here, it's hard for me to answer today. But as a Platform, it's just one thing -- I've talked about it before -- that the citizen shouldn't be afraid to defend himself, he can't feel like he's been attacked, he's defending himself, and he's gonna be responsible for it. Therefore, if another provision is needed to further ensure the right of defence, the Civic Platform is in favour of directing this project to further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u274	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Grabowski will deliver his position in writing. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u275	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act in print No. 1871. High Izbo! The aim of the project is to amend an article setting out the countertype of the necessary defence. The amendment consists in the addition to this provision of a new editorial body - Article. 2a providing for the repeal of the criminality of the excender's act in the event that the borders of the defence necessary are exceeded in the face of the unlawful attempt to break into the apartment, the premises, the house or the fenced area adjacent to them. That institution would not apply to situations where it would be necessary to overstep the boundaries of defence grossly. Ladies and gentlemen! This draft of the new recipe is controversial among lawyers. Above all, it is intended to protect those who resist unlawful attacks in their home, but these unlawful attacks happen everywhere. Now let me quote: The creation of casuistic regulations, and this with an order to be released from criminal liability in a situation of extraordinary wealth and complexity of events, does not seem appropriate. It was written in an opinion sent to the Minister by the Court of Appeal in Szczecin. We also read that the current laws are sufficient and allow us not to show anyone who was properly defending himself against the attacker, even when he crossed the limits of the necessary defence. It's a digression. During his speech, Mr Matusiewicz said that such rules exist in many different European countries. Mr President, in Poland there are also these provisions, but it is only a matter of applying them. This is, it seems, also a matter of how the Minister-General's Attorney-General conducts his business. Back in the case: the prosecutors question the meaning and validity of the planned changes in general, since, according to her expert in the existing legal state, the courts have actually ruled on the issues of defence necessary and possible crossing its borders. It points out that, by criticising the existing judicial practice, the Ministry is based on very outdated materials. In support of its reasoning, the Ministry recalled, for example, Two Supreme Court judgments - note - of 1969, that is, from a time when the current Penal Code was not in force. I would like to remind you that it entered into force in 1997. I quote: Thus, they do not constitute in any way an objective and representative picture of the current interpretation of the grounds of defence necessary. We read in the opinion of the Attorney General. According to the prosecutor's lawyer, the thesis from the scientific article cited by the Ministry is also obsolete in the current state of law. This article analyses 22 court decisions on the necessary defence, the latest of which - and here again - is from the 1980s and the oldest from the 1930s. The 20th century, and thus also earlier than the current Penal Code. Ladies and gentlemen! The modern one fully shares the allegations made in my opinions. We regard this amendment to the Penal Code as unnecessary, because the current rules are sufficient and allow us not to show anyone who has rightly defended himself against the attacker, even when these limits of defence are exceeded. In this situation, we will not support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u276	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u277	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to present on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club our position on the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act, print No. 1871. I think I would like to begin by expressing my satisfaction that this project almost coincided in the High House with the liberalisation project on the acquisition and marketing of firearms. And not because I'm a hot advocate for this, but I think it's a much more accurate direction to expand the catalogue of situations where we're going to allow the necessary defence than the placing on the market of firearms. The aim of this project is to improve the legal situation of persons who, using the necessary defence, defend their lives, health and property in the event of the perpetrator's entry into the home or into a strictly defined area. To be added § Article 2a 25 Penal Code: No punishment shall be imposed on those who exceed the limits of the necessary defence, in response to an attempt to break into the apartment, the premises, the house or the barricade adjacent to them, or in response to an attack preceded by a breach of those places, unless the border of the defense was gross. According to the authors of the project, at present the courts are too rarely applying the criteria of proportionality of the defence developed by the Supreme Court, which guarantee the effective use of the counter-attribution provided for in Article. 25 Penal Code. But let's move on to the various records of the revised article. First of all, the proposed wording contains many vague terms, such as "infringement" or "adjacent territory." They may be interpreted by one court in a completely different way than another. As a result, the rule may not be effective. It is also important to specify that the rule applies only in the event of an assailant entering the territory of the property. This means that the rule - and this is quite important - does not apply when the attacker is admitted by the victim - e.g. When a trick was used, impersonating someone. Someone got into the apartment impersonating someone else. We all know that very many breaches of the home mire are carried out in this way. The assailant is referred to as an employee of a cooperative or a gas company, an inkasenta. These are also situations worth considering. Failure to take such situations into account is a serious drawback of the proposed amendment. It should be noted that the provision concerns the defence only if the property is invaded, and therefore in practice - it was already mentioned today - a person defending himself against home theft can do so more effectively than e.g. Someone defending themselves from robbery, battery, rape or attempted murder on the street. In particular, given the recent case from one of the shopping centers, it would also be worth taking into account such situations, without denying, Minister, the rightness of the idea. I would like to stress this: the direction is good, but I am showing whether we are showing as a club those areas that could be refined in the course of legislative work. A frequently raised charge against the project is its internal contradiction. According to the novel, the person defending himself against crossing the necessary borders of defence shall not be punished. This does not mean, however, that she does not break the law, but only that she will not be punished for it. And if he's breaking the law, e.g. By using a knife to defend himself against a burglar, the burglar himself has the right to defend himself against a defending person. High Izbo! In the general sense of Poles, the position of people defending their lives and property against assault by criminals should be strengthened. The question is whether this regulation, which the Ministry of Justice has personally presented, comes fully to that sense. Nevertheless, as a club we are [[♪ The bell ♪]] ready to support this project, but with - and that is what I would like to say - clarification of these weaknesses. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u278	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you wanna sign up for another vote, you're welcome. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. I invite Mrs Halina Szydłko from Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u279	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The project is very much needed. However, I would like to ask: Is the wording contained in the proposed § 2a is sufficient, given that it still refers to crossing the boundaries of the defence necessary in a gross manner, but nevertheless? So will a person who will be forced to resist a direct unlawful attack feel secure and decide to use force, knowing that a court in free judgment may consider that it has exceeded the limits of the defence necessary in a gross manner? And that's what's most important. I'm worried about this free assessment that can go a lot further. than the child who stole the apple, quoted by the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u280	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Griglas, not associated, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u281	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Undoubtedly, this idea, which is behind the proposed changes, deserves to be accepted. The state should, must stand behind a citizen who defends himself, his loved ones, finally his property. A citizen must feel the support of the state here. However, this line on which we move is, on the one hand, determined by this defence necessary in the current legal situation, and on the other hand - as you have said graphically: my home, my fortress - by such far-reaching regulation. We, I understand, move in these regulations towards this fortress, but very gently. This area will still be scratched in a questionable way. I think that today we are actually not dealing with the problem of regulation and more - the application of the law. I must tell you that I personally knew this case: one of my friends used a weapon he had permission to use on his property. He was in more trouble... These procedures to verify that he was sure to comply with all the procedures, whether the weapons were well secured, took several months, while the person who entered the area, even though they had been included, had no problems. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u282	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u283	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I'd like to ask you two questions. First of all, the first question is what you have done in the current practice of applying the current rules in this area, which we are discussing, in terms of the necessary defence. As I mentioned in the club speech, these regulations are, they can be applied. It seems that the courts - moreover, such opinions were also relevant to this project - apply the relevant rules correctly. On the other hand, the question is whether the Minister has taken any decisions in this regard during his two-year period of activity and has issued guidance on the application of the current rules. If so, did this affect the application of the law in these cases? How many cases are there? Are these nagminal cases? I would very much ask you to explain this area. My second question already concerns itself, let's say, the reasons. The Ministry used examples of judgments of the Supreme Court from half a century ago - the question: Why was it from half a century ago? There are no newer reasons or there are other reasons? - and examples of court decisions from decades ago. The latest are from the '80s and the oldest from the '30s. The 20th century, almost 100 years ago. Why, Minister? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u284	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u285	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! No doubt the right and necessary changes are needed in terms of the necessary defence. I have such a specific question about the necessary defence. If the assailant is outside the property, outside the fence, throws stones at the window, whether he uses flammable or explosive substances, the family is threatened and then the victim runs out, catches up with him outside the property and uses force - it must be used to overpower him - is it necessary to defend him or not? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u286	Thank you. Mr Jacek World, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u287	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister indirectly linked to this law. Well, there's a rather turbulent discussion at the moment about access to weapons. So, does the Minister provide - and what is the minister's position on this issue - for increased access to arms to defend the house myrtle, and above all for the owners of single-family homes? I am thinking, above all, of long smooth-bore weapons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u288	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u289	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! This project affects a very sensitive sphere in the Penal Code: each very individualised case of the necessary defence. But you always have to remember. I know that in his statement, the Minister referred to it - that before a possible conviction occurs, a person who protects his or her well-being or the welfare of others, before any judicial proceedings are brought, there must always be an indictment in the beginning and there must always be accusations, and yet the services which are directly subject to you are responsible. The new law, the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, which you have so zealously presented and whose regulations you have so zealously defended, gives you the opportunity to issue binding orders to every prosecutor in this country. That's why I'm joining the questions. What is the prosecutor's practice in this area right now? I would ask - because this project, all this indicates, will be the subject of committee work - to prepare the statistics on not only the last 2 years, but for example. the last 5 or 10 years. How many cases were there in the D.A.'s office? How long did it take to press charges? How many indictments have ended? How many court proceedings were there? How many convictions were there and how many acquittals were there? The point is that we actually have a full picture of the situation, [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're debating. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u290	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please address the Minister of Justice, Attorney General Zbigniew Ziobra.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u291	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, first of all, I would like to agree with those of you who have pointed out, saying just now from the Parliamentary Speaker, that we have basically the legal solution, the legal structure of the necessary defence, which, if it were well and properly applied, would not require any substantial corrections and changes. I generally agree with that. Indeed, the history of the necessary institution of defence goes back to pre-war years in terms of its criminalisation. As for tradition, it has a long history and is as old as the world, as the basic human rights to defend its goods and values. If this structure were properly interpreted, it would probably not require the changes that we are proposing today, or those that have already taken place several times over the last 25 years. These changes are, however, a response to a certain state of legal practice, which is linked to the quality of case law and views which at the moment dominate the teaching of criminal law. Unfortunately, these often differ from the general belief among Poles, I also believe, from the view which dominates your statements, that the law should first of all stand on the side of the defender, that the defender should have a significant advantage over the attacker, that the state must not give way to lawlessness, which I would also like to express in such a way that it should not give a specific privilege or advantage to the perpetrator, the attacker, to whom the attacker is effectively defending himself. Unfortunately, the reality, the practice of law enforcement and justice, but also to a large extent with the teaching of criminal law, brings many unpleasant surprises here. That is why these changes have taken place along the way, including the change which you, representing the Civic Platform, have been polite to mention, which concluded that a person who crosses the boundaries of the defence necessary under the influence of justified fear or the uproar of the circumstances of the assassination is not punishable. This change, which was introduced during the reign of the PO-PSL coalition, was prepared and presented in the Sejm when I was first Minister of Justice. It was a change just under my watch at the Ministry of Justice. It was the subject of first reading in the Sejm, which passed positively, but then due to the course of political-historical matters - I will not remind them here - and the premature termination of the term of the Sejm did not happen to the finale. This has been done, which I welcome, because despite the great criticism that I have often directed against the Civic Platform, I welcome the fact that this particular change that we have prepared has been implemented, and with our support. During the PO-PSL regime it was also an expression of the belief that something needs to be changed here, because this practice is failing. Why the changes in practice? Dear Member States, how prosecutors think, how judges think, how policemen think, although maybe to a lesser extent, but also, because they also apply the law, is largely due to a dominant view in law school, which in turn reflects its stigma on the direction of court thinking and judicial case law. And what is this direction? This direction determines to a large extent the so-called. Cracow school of criminal law, including the main creator of criminal codes, among others. The criminal code still in force today, Professor Andrzej Zoll. I encourage you to reach out to his textbooks and comments. Well, on the side of the same institution, the same constructed and understood necessary defence, it brings out completely different conclusions and determines - he and the scientific community associated with it - that defence is not necessary as a self-defense institution, which under all conditions gives the defender the right to take effective defence action. It is an institution that has its limitations on this autonomy. There is talk of subsidiarity, limited subsidiarity of the necessary defence, and even full subsidiarity when the life of the attacker may be threatened. In such a case, if the defender could commit an attack on the life of the assailant, he is obliged to take all other actions, but not the necessary defence. The necessary defense can only be used if there is no other option. This is, you can say, the Copenhagen coup, but in a bad way, which also has a negative impact on the thinking of law practitioners, because it is written by people who construct the law, have a huge impact on its subsequent interpretation. They impose an understanding of the institutions of defence necessary that, unfortunately, it is not possible to take effective defensive action with possible consequences, because it cannot be predicted what is the death of the assailant, but it is necessary to run ahead or call the police, wait for him to arrive and close himself in peace, otherwise there will be criminal liability. Such interpretations appeared on the basis of an understanding of the necessary institution of defence and its jurisdictional form, which has not changed in any way as regards the set of legal standards which describes the institution, but has changed the interpretation which takes place, because the law is alive and subject to some evolution in the context of certain social changes that are taking place. It is about thinking, understanding the social context, the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, to which, among others. Professor Zoll appealed. I totally disagree with this thinking, it's completely alien to me. I believe that the right to defend ourselves necessary is a natural law assigned to each of us. Every defender must be sure, convinced that if the attacker is committed to an assassination, especially his or her special interests connected with a particular place for each of us, for each of you, without exception, regardless of political views, or home where the family is, where you spend your time, where the Poles spend their time, then we do not have to shut down, run away, call the police, but we have the right to take defensive action, we have the right to defend ourselves effectively in a way that is available to us, and using methods that will be effective, and not only those that will bring the least damage to the good of the attacker. Such thinking, which is expressed in this principle of limited subsidiarity or limited autonomy of the institutions of defence necessary, is that of thinking, which often takes actually the point of view of the bandit, the interest of the perpetrator. And we want to say this change: we do not agree with that thinking, we do not share that reasoning. And we want to tell this not only to prosecutors, judges, police officers, we want to tell all Poles. Because I can ask you such a rhetorical question: Is it true that each of you, if you ask yourself this question, imagine the situation that is happening - I do not wish this to anyone, of course - to break in, to rob a house when you sleep and defend your own family, children, people you love... There's a break-in, the assailants are coming in. Would you be sure that you can only be afraid of the attackers and not later what the authorities of the state will do and think, for example. As in the textbooks of the law Professor Zolla, the prosecutor or the court? It's true, as the Attorney General, because we've changed the bill, I have the opportunity, and I'm taking this opportunity to influence the way the prosecutors understand the defence institution, and I'm directing it to the interests of the defender. This is what I do through supervision, analysis of cases that are related to similar stories, training, meetings with the management of the prosecution - such meetings took place - and I always emphasise the element related to the rights of those who defend themselves. I have encouraged the heads of individual prosecutorial units to pay attention to these elements, just as I do, and I demand that they be very firm and harsh in treating the perpetrators of violent crimes against life, freedom - rapists, pedophiles or members of organized criminal groups. The connection to the VAT mob didn't come out of nowhere either. It is precisely that as a representative of the government today I can pursue such a policy, but that does not mean that in every case I want and intend to step in. I only do this when we're dealing with information about drastic violations. This is not possible, because we have thousands of prosecutors, each prosecutor leads several dozen, several hundred cases, and I am not the Holy Ghost. How, then, can we do this? This can be done, primarily by creating legal standards. This is the strongest signal that goes to prosecutors, judges and cops as well. And remember, prosecutors change, governments change. Today, there is a government that is on the side of those who defend themselves, who insists that the defender must have special rights, the government that thanked Professor Zoll and the entire group of his colleagues, who until recently formed a codification committee and gave some way of thinking and tone of action to the authorities of the state, and gave up their work. They played a leading role here, the same was true in the national school for judges and prosecutors, and they were the ones who gave the tone in training there. We changed that. We have shown that this is not the thinking that we share, that we expect a different direction of thinking. But that can change, too. It's democracy. We all have to respect the rules of democracy. The government and the Attorney General may come, for example. He shared Professor Zoll's views. Recently, Professor Zoll's colleague from the cathedral, Prof. Ćwiakalski, who wrote textbooks with him and fully shared the views that Prof. Zoll expressed, is about the limited subsidiarity of defending the necessary, limited autonomy, and even full subsidiarity, when it comes to the possibility of losing the perpetrator's life. Our proposal may mean a concrete change in the well-being of those who defend themselves, the awareness that they may be in trouble, but also in the subsequent action of law enforcement authorities, supervision of them and the requirements that prosecutors are faced with. or, as a result, later, after challenging the decision, the courts. Therefore, by creating a change in the law, we are making some changes that are more lasting, clear. This is particularly important in the context of this poor evolution that is taking place in the world of science, which is trying to impose the primacy of the interests of the de facto perpetrator. This is not only about enforcing strict criminal responsibility, but above all about the need to rehabilitate, that you must not be led by the desire to retaliate, by the fear that you must always think of the unsub's interests so that he can return to society and that he may by chance not be harmed too much when he is committed assault. Well, I firmly do not share such a view and offer a solution that is reasonable to defend. Unfortunately, the law or even our language, the network of concepts that we use - because through language we create the law - are imperfect. We are not able to describe each case in a precise manner, because our imagination is not able to predict the different situations that may happen in life, nor to define the boundaries of the defence necessary under any circumstances. That is why we must refer to the concepts of evaluation. If we are referring to this flagrant example, case, here I am going to answer the question of Mrs... I'm sorry to put it this way... The Member, like the Member of the Polish People's Party, has, I understand, expressed her appreciation for the direction of extending certain subjective rights of those defending themselves. This is, as I understand it, a positive direction, but there have also been reservations among others with the Member. why the clause of gross crossing of the borders of the defence necessary is still applied in a general way. Unfortunately, it is because we are not able to predict in a casuistic manner all cases that can bring life, which are related to specific behaviour, but which would not justify the use of e.g. a knife or firearms in the application of coercive measures in response to a criminal attack. There's an example of apple theft. A group of adult people are playing football. The ball falls into the garden and someone enters, breaking someone's home mirror, e.g. Someone's house, you can imagine. And what, is that why you can shoot him? Is that okay with you? [[Oh, no.]] After all, we will not describe in the Penal Code that if someone plays football and the ball exceeds a certain limit, then the recipe does not apply. We can't do it, it's impossible. We must appeal to the concepts of judgment, to the common sense and to the wisdom of those who apply this law. But with this solution we move the accent, we point out that we want to increase the powers especially for those who defend themselves under specific conditions. Because we, at all, can say, do not manipulate the concept of the necessary defence structure, do not change it, it is the same in Poland today as it was both yesterday and many years ago. The aim is to ensure that it is correctly understood, i.e. it involves the exclusion of unlawfulness, the exclusion of guilt and, as a result, crime of the act, if there is an unlawful attack and the response to this attack in the form of a defence. We are only talking about those situations that are connected with crossing the boundaries of the necessary defence. And what we want to say is that if a person crossed this line of defence necessary, acting under special conditions - usually in her own home, her own environment, where she had reasons to feel safe, where she had special reasons for caring for the safety of her loved ones, sometimes this could happen, and often so, at night, when the attackers come in to rob him - in such cases you have to give a certain privilege, an additional signal to the defender: listen, you can even take radical action, we will understand that. Because common sense dictates to understand that a defender may be under some particular stress, may be influenced by strong emotions, may, by nature, be very upset by the fact that someone had the audacity to step in, invade an area reserved for her, for her family, for her loved ones, for the people she loves, for whom she has the right to defend with all determination, without later fearing that, in the event of effective defense, including the death of the attacker, someone will drag you to court and charge you. This solution, which we are proposing, does not lead, as the Member was kind to put it here, to the inevitable consequence of putting a person beyond the limits of the defence necessary before the court or, earlier, of bringing charges against him. No, it's not. This design says that this person is not subject to all these negative consequences. There's a thoughtful formula, we used it: it's not punished. It is not punishable, that is, that if the prosecutor and the police assess that the circumstances described here take place and that there has been a breach of the permissible limit of defence necessary even in a substantial but not gross manner, under the conditions described in this provision, then that person is not threatened with being charged with the charge, that person is not threatened with having to go to court later with an indictment and that he will go to court. I will remind you - there are things that are little known and poorly remembered, not all of them are publicising the media, but there are also things that have been made in our memory somewhere - the case of the man from Łódź, to whom the bandits entered at night, into his house, and who ripped one of them out, ran after him and stabbed him several times. This bandit later, fleeing through the fence, effectively, died because of the blood flow, and this man spent many months in custody. And that's the situation. We want such cases not to happen to be arrested, but we also want to have a common conviction, strengthened among the citizens of our country, that the person effectively defending himself, even if this is a serious loss to the good of the attacker, even in an extreme situation, if it is linked to the deprivation of life of the perpetrator, the attacker, will not have to bear criminal liability for it. This person will not be charged and will not be brought to trial. And as for the imperfection of legal matter, the legal tools, we're doomed to do so. Many would probably want to come up with such a solution to describe in a casuistic and precise way the wording of the insults, for example. But in the Penal Code... There's no such country in the world because I've been trying to analyze it, which would have made it up. And everyone says, "Who insults another person?" Or the word "talk." What is it that says? Well, it's always an assessment of what it says. We need someone to assess whether, in a given context, we are dealing with a question of whether or not we are dealing with a talk, we are dealing with an insult or not. These are judgmental concepts, because our language is judged. The law we write is made by means of a language that is, in a sense, imperfect, because it often uses expressions of appreciation and judgment. We can't do anything else because we don't have another language. And in this case we also refer to this very language - an imperfect language, but allowing us to go in a way towards perfection going on, imperfect further, but towards perfection going on, to broaden our understanding of the right to the necessary defence. Not in terms of its definition, because the definition is correct, but submissive, one can say, to some dirt, to the shrinking by the law thinkers I mentioned here, who are conspiring and inventing some theories of limited subsidiarity and self-independence, and in this way unfortunately have a negative effect on practice. We, without touching the essence of understanding the necessary defence - personally believe that it should be as broad as possible understood - we broaden our understanding of the situations connected with its overcoming. At the time when this excess clearly occurred, we still say: yes, you have exceeded the limits of the necessary defense, but that it was under such and such conditions, we justify it in advance. We are also maintaining the provision mentioned here by the Member, which was prepared at a time when I was the Minister of Justice for the first time, guaranteeing that, in any situation, not only under domestic conditions, this house, which was mentioned here in a nutshell, but also in any other place in Poland, on the street, in any public and non-public place, a person who crosses the limits of the necessary defence, if acting under the influence of stress, an uproar, which is justified by circumstances, is also not subject to criminal liability. And this is a good solution, a good change that we have introduced together on instalments - I have prepared, and it has been introduced by a majority, PO-PSL. And let's put this into instalments as another good change that goes in the right direction. We can talk about the details. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u292	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u293	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! It follows from the justification of the draft law that in the public opinion there is a serious social conviction that the right of the assailant's goods is favoured by the law at the expense of the good of the assaulted and insolvent anti-laws, resulting in serious damage to citizens' confidence in the state, its organs and legal order. Question one: Do the authors of the draft law have specific comparative data for the last 5 years, which would result from the dominant judicial practice of common courts consisting in unjustified omission of the provision of the article. 25 § 1.3 of the Penal Code when assessing the legal behaviour of a person who, in connection with the denial of an unlawful attack, has violated or put the legal interests of the attacker in jeopardy? Question two: Is the design of the article? 25 § 2a The Penal Code does not coincide with Article. 25 § 3 Penal Code in a situation where there is a breach of the boundaries of the defence necessary under the influence of fear or uproar justified by the circumstances of the assassination? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u294	Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm are addressed by the Government's draft law amending the Law of the Criminal Code, contained in print No 1871, to the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications for consideration. The competent committees have submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Act on collective water supply and collective waste water discharge and certain other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the celebration of the 95th anniversary of the founding of the Polish Union in Germany (prints No 1892 and 1908). I ask Mr Jack the World to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u295	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 12 October, the Committee on Culture and Media discussed a draft resolution on the celebration of the 95th anniversary of the Association of Poles in Germany. After discussion, the Commission unanimously recommends that the High House adopt a resolution. I thank Mr Szymon Szynkowski, by the way, for taking this initiative. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u296	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Szymon Szynkowski, a.k.a. Sęk, Law and Justice, has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u297	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the draft resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the celebration of the 95th anniversary of the founding of the Polish Union in Germany we proposed as Law and Justice - I initiated this draft resolution - to cover a complementary range of problems, i.e. not only the history of the formation of the union, as we speak in the first part of the resolution, its actions, dramatic prewar fates, fates during the war, when most of the members of the union were murdered, but also other issues that we are talking about in this draft resolution. The resolution resembles the sign of the rod as a symbol of communication between Poles and the nation. The resolution also resembles five truths of the Pole. I will remind you of these truths, because they sound right now, as it seems, also today. First, we are Poles, second, the faith of our fathers is the faith of our children, thirdly, the Pole is a Polish brother, fourthly, every day the Pole serves the nation, fifthly finally, our Polish mother, we must not speak ill of the mother. In the draft resolution we are also talking about the actions of the union today, procedures to equalise the chances of the Polish minority in Germany, which still does not have this status, that it has the same rights and privileges as the German minority living in Poland. And here comes a very important sentence, a historical sentence, which for the first time, if the draft resolution is adopted by the High House, will be supported by the voice of the Polish Sejm. That is, we want the draft resolution of the Sejm to support the request raised by the Polish Union in Germany for years to restore the status of a Polish minority to our compatriots residing in Germany. Restoration, because Poles had this status before the war. [[Applause]] It seems that today there is no reason for this postulate, as I have said for years raised by the union, to be ignored by the fact that we are connected - after all this is declared by the authorities of both countries - a friendly neighbourhood. If so, the expression of this friendly neighbourhood should be the treatment of Poles in Germany as much as Poland can respect and treat the German minority in its country. Finally, in the resolution we honour all the activists who contributed to preserving Polishness. There have been a lot of them over the 95 years. It is also worth reminding that many of them gave their lives for the fact that today this Polishness can be promoted outside our country. Ladies and gentlemen! I am also pleased to present this draft resolution in the presence of representatives of the present authorities of the Polish Union in Germany. Welcome to President Malinowski, President Anna Wawrzyszko, the entire delegation. It's very nice to have you here. [[Applause]] I would like the voice that the Sejm will express in this resolution to be a voice that is in agreement. It seems as important as honoring this distinguished institution, this distinguished association with many merits, is a good time to remind on the one hand its merits, and on the other hand to show that the House is united in recognising these merits. [[Don't lie to me anymore.]] Please, ladies and gentlemen, please accept this draft resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u298	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Krzakła, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u299	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present the position of the club in relation to the parliamentary draft resolution on the celebration of the 95th anniversary of the Association of Poles in Germany. The Polish Union in Germany was created as a result of the efforts of Poles who were descendants of mass migration started after 1870. It was then that the largest Polish clusters were formed in Rhine and Westphalia and Berlin. In total, it was over 620 thousand. persons. Also in eastern Germany - under the Treaty of Versailles in 1918 transferred to Poland - lived still more than one million Polish indigenous people. More widely written about this issue, among others. Prof. Ruchniewicz in one of his publications. The first years of development of the association, registered in 1922, is an intensive period of activity in which Polish schools were established, the Polish press was published, numerous cultural and social societies were established, among others. The Bank of Slavs. This is the time, as we read in the draft resolution, when the union actively engaged in political, educational and economic life, becoming a bridge between the two nations. It is worth recalling that by 1928 the Polish minority had two representatives in the Prussian Seym. At the Congress of Poles in Germany in 1938 the truths of Poles in Germany, mentioned in this draft resolution, were passed. The outbreak of World War II led to the dissolution of Polish organizations operating in Germany, including the Polish Union in Germany. Many active activists died, gave their lives for their homeland. After the war, the main part of the Polish minority was found in Poland, while the remaining clusters of Poles were gradually dispersed. It is estimated that in East and Western Germany there were about 150,000 after the war, at least in the first years after the war. Poles. These environments have joined, among others. to reactivate the Polish Union in Germany. The subsequent waves of migration in the 1970s and 1980s have led us to speak of a Polish community of 1,2.1 million according to various estimates. The Treaty on Good Neighborhood and Friendly Cooperation signed in June 1991 clarifies in Article. 20.22 rights of German minority in Poland and Polish communities in Germany. In 2010 the Polish-German round table was launched as a platform for dialogue aimed at fully implementing the provisions of the Good Neighbours Treaty. The last meeting took place in February 2015 and was devoted to the situation of Polish and Polish people in Germany and the German minority in Poland. At that time, a positive assessment of the results of the round table so far was reflected in the joint statement. It was then that both government delegations and the social partners agreed to continue working on issues where progress is less advanced. They were on the Polish side, among others. implementation of the Polish language teaching strategy as a native in Germany or preparation for the renovation of the Polish House in Bochum as the target seat of the Centre for Documentation of Culture and History of Poles in Germany. Today, it is regrettable that the government, knowingly or not, resigns from such an instrument as the round table. If he wants to achieve equal respect for rights on both sides, he should sit back to the talks and step up his efforts in favour of Polonia. It is a pity that the current government cannot really boast of any achievements in improving the situation of Polonia in Germany or gaining minority status. Therefore, we hope that the position of the Sejm and this resolution will mobilize the government to carry out its commitments, because only in this way will the Polish Union in Germany be able to continue its activities, while remaining a bridge between agreement and cooperation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u300	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Brynus of the Kukiz club15 delivered his position in writing. I invite Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski from Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u301	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the celebration of the 95th anniversary of the Association of Poles in Germany. It is of course important that we think about our compatriots and compatriots living in Germany, it is a kind of patriotic duty, but it is also a duty of the Polish Union in Germany to think about what is happening in Poland and Poles living here. This is the space of dialogue which is extremely important and which, in my opinion, is poorly cultivated. Despite the Treaty on good neighbourliness and friendly cooperation between us and Germany, the Government of Law and Justice has been seeking to threaten relations with our western neighbour since the beginning of its term of office, which is actually extremely dramatic. Sometimes I get the impression, especially when the debate comes to some climax, when the level of emotion rises, that we are at war with the Germans. This is often an absurd and incomprehensible situation. Especially since Poland's relations with Germany are the best in history, the best in history. This is a moment when we can say today that Germany has become a friend of Poland. The unthinkable statements of Minister Waszczykowski, the curiazal interviews given by him to German media, the intervention on caricatures at the Cologne street parade or, finally, the absurd demands to pay reparations of war - these are only the brightest examples of PiS' aversion to Germany. And this is, ladies and gentlemen, a situation that is actually outrageous. Instead of cultivating, cultivating these relationships - they are difficult, Polish bishops gave an example of how to think about Polish-German relations - you are constantly questioning or trying to minimize them. And I would like to tell you that, for example, in the space of culture relations between Polish artists and German artists are excellent, between Polish cultural institutions and German institutions are unique. No country in Europe makes such spectacular decisions as the German cultural institutions when they interact with ours. It's worth remembering. The state, by taking its very aggressive criticism, its policy towards Germany, is questioning whether or not you are taking the risk of voiding these relations. But I assure you that Polish artists, Polish culture, this real culture, this culture that cares about European dialogue, building European bonds... After all, Germany is precisely the part of the European Union that is most concerned with ensuring that the common Europe is guided by common values. You don't understand, and you don't want to understand. I think this is also a moment when it is worth recalling the difficulty with which all these Polish-German relationships were developed. The Polish Union in Germany has had this dialogue in some sense throughout its history, but I do not like the recent years. These last years have been an example of such national pressure, such an extreme entirely. You don't understand how Today, these Polish-German relations can be practiced, and you are actually motivated by your own political interests. Nevertheless, given the 95th anniversary of this relationship, thinking about how important the attitude of the members of the union in the times of the Polish People's Republic was, Modern will support this resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u302	Thank you. Mr Jan Łopata, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u303	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present our position - the position of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club - in relation to the draft resolution on the celebration of the 95th anniversary of the Association of Poles in Germany. High Seym! Members of the Polish People's Party support the parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the 95th anniversary of the Association of Poles in Germany. We are fully committed to an important and necessary initiative - not only for our fellow countrymen living in Germany. High Izbo! The Poles' Union was established in Germany in 1922. In historical 1933 he accepted the characteristic sign of Rodła, a symbol of communication between Poles and the nation, designed by a Polish artist - it is worth recalling - Janina Kłopocka. Although times have changed, the priorities of the relationship remain the same: shaping the identity and culture of Poles, protecting their rights, promoting the teaching of Polish language and achieving the status of a national minority by the Polish population. There is no doubt that the joint support of Members of the 95th Anniversary of the Union Rodo will help achieve these goals and will allow the Poles to pay special attention to their fellow countrymen living west of the Oder. The initiative will also be a symbolic tribute to many activists of the House who were repressed and murdered in Nazi times. More than 1,200 of them were sent to concentration camps. The exact number of people shot by the Nazis is not known. Today we are lucky to live in a time of united Europe, Poles in Germany do not suffer deep repression. However, they still need strong support, especially in the fight to win full rights of the national minority. We hope that today's debate on the celebration of the 95th anniversary of the Association of Poles in Germany will be the beginning of more intensive activities of Polish diplomacy in this regard too. Speaking of the anniversary of one of the most well-deserved Polish organizations in the world, attention should also be paid to its principle, i.e. the five truths of the Pole already uttered. Most of us know them, or we should know them. At this point, however, it is worth reminding the third truth, it seems the most recent: the Pole is a brother. We can unite above divisions in the intention of honoring several generations of Polish patriots living in Germany, so I bring, so I think, and so probably will be, and above divisions we should also work on our important issues, putting first the welfare of Poland and the welfare of Poles, not the particular party interests. High Seym! Members of the Polish People's Party will support this draft resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u304	Thank you. Mr Stefan Niesiołowski, the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u305	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Near the European Union, the Democrats were quite reluctant to listen to these statements. I am already overlooking the statement made by your committee representative, who, fortunately, was quite cost-effective here. But as for the Mr. PiS who spoke, do you pretend to be stupid? 'Cause what do you call it? You have the courage, you have the audacity. here say: Pole to a Pole brother? That's a beautiful password. What about cheating faces? And the other sort? And the killers? And the thieves? What about the marketplace? This is the constant lexicon of your insults, and this is the constant liturgy of your Smolensk, and not only performances. And you have the audacity to resemble that kind of catechism? The worst thing - and PiS does it constantly - is that you have added to the resolution about Archbishop. Baraniaku is Mr. Jędraszewski's character. And now you stick to the historical resolution about Poles in Germany the current political interests of PiS. The needs of the PiS are not a Polish reason for the state and the needs of the PiS are not a historical policy, but are a forgery of history. It is very questionable that Poles living in Germany are regarded as a national minority. Do you pretend you don't know what the boundaries are? After the First War, there were different boundaries, different resettlement of the population, different situation. How can Nazi crimes and Nazi repression against Poles be compared? And that is why we decided to support this resolution, because we pay tribute to those people who suffered, who were beaten, persecuted, who suffered for Poland in Germany. But leave them alone. Leave them alone. The claim that the same is the status of Poles in Germany as Germans, this minority in Opole, because this is the only one we are talking about, is absurd. Then the Turks, the Ukrainians, the Russians, they should all have the status of a national minority in Germany. This is a resolution. As usual, PiS-owska, i.e. lied about, is giving current historical policy - and not only historical - integration of this policy into current policy, into political interests. This is the combination of such a resolution, i.e. some encouragement of the Germans - as already said by the representative of Modern, which I share - that in the framework of Polish-German relations the Germans grant the status of minorities to Poles living there. And at the same time you are talking about the 4th Reich, about the German-Russian condominium over Poland, about the reparations. Ridiculous reparation request. In short, this resolution is very bad, but it prevails such a view and I think it would be incomprehensible because of those people who suffered a lot there in Germany, especially the previous generations - it is a resolution on the anniversary, i.e. there is a historical memory of everything that has happened during these 95 years, and that makes us determined. Of course, appealing to the PiS is a complete waste of time, because it's not that they can't - they don't want to, they deliberately fake history, they deliberately lie. You're consciously mean at everything you do and say. But despite all this, we will be ready to support this text, to vote in favour of this text. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u306	Thank you. Mr Ireneusz Gains, Frees and Solidarni have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u307	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, I guess we'll just have to cool off from the words of my previous speaker. Ladies and gentlemen! High Seym of the Republic of Poland! What kind of provocation can there be - to commemorate and pay tribute to Poles who performed in very difficult conditions, united in Germany, later the Third German Reich, worked to commemorate or develop the idea of Polishness? Nothing more wrong, nothing more outrageous, you'd like to say, and intricate in your logic. On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the committee on the draft resolution on the celebration of the 95th anniversary of the founding of the Polish Union in Germany. This year, on 27 August exactly, it was the 95th anniversary of the founding of the Polish Union in Germany, the oldest organization bringing together Poles in the Federal Republic of Germany. Ladies and gentlemen! It is necessary to pay tribute to those who for decades in Germany united, built the idea of Polishness, focused on those truths which should unite Poles. Here we should mention, first of all, two great Poles who played an important, crucial role in the construction, creation and activity of the Polish Union in Germany - Mr Jan Baczewski, a representative of the Polish minority from the area of Eastern Prussia, as well as Mr Jan Kaczmark from the area of Westphalia. Time is relatively short, too short to tell about all activities of the Polish Union in Germany, but it is certainly worth noting some historical, important event that took place on 6 March 1938. During a very difficult period, when the ideology of national socialism dominated in Germany, one can say Hitlerism, fanatical fascism, just then on March 6, a great congress of Poles took place in Berlin at the People's Theatre, where five truths of the Pole were passed or proclaimed. The truths from the platform were already being reminded today, but they are worth mentioning. They say: We are Poles. The faith of our fathers is the faith of our children. A Pole is a brother to a Pole. Every day the Pole serves the nation. Poland is our mother - you must not speak ill of your mother. Ladies and gentlemen! High Seym! It is worth mentioning the words of Dr. Jan Kaczmark, who then, during that historical gathering, emphasized: Our truths are not derived from the understanding of great wise men, but from the simplest hearts of the Polish people are extracted. And today, from the Congress of Poles in Germany, we send these truths to all Polish hearts in the world. As in 1938, there is also a need today for a greater and stronger bond between Poles living outside the country with motherhood within the timeless idea of the Family implemented in the form of the return of Poles to their homeland. Today will even be discussed the bill on repatriation. I think that in some part this idea of communicating with Poles abroad is being implemented, taking advantage of the possibility of returning by those who want this return. We also need to express great respect for our fellow countrymen in the Polish Union in Germany, among others. for the perfect organization of the Berlin Congress in 1938, in which as many as 5 thousand took part. delegates, for manifesting unity of all Polish environments at that difficult time. The patronage of Poles in the German Reich should be remembered. Dr. Bolesław Domanski, President of the Polish Union in Germany. The figure of this outstanding Polonus, priest and leader of the Polish spiritual people in Germany during the struggle for the rights of the Polish national minority, should be reminded of the next generations of Poles as a symbol of perseverance and consequences, while the slogan of Poles in Germany: "I will not cease in battle, we have the power and power of this rightness to endure and win, let it be an important message for the contemporary Poles from the sign of the rod and at the same time call for constant work for the homeland in the 21st century. Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers also mentioned this: I think today is the time for the Republic to ask for the rights of Poles [[♪ The bell ♪]] in Germany, leading to the fact that Poles will be officially recognised as a minority. Of course, we want Poland's relations...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u308	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u309	...with the Federal Republic of Germany were the best.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u310	You have a voice...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u311	Circle of Messengers Free and Solidarni...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u312	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u313	...will support this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u314	Mr Robert Winnicki, not associated, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u315	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as the Polish Union in Germany is concerned, about this story, about the great heritage that you are today present with us in the Chamber, of which we are very happy, you continue, nothing is better depicting this very history, the essence of this organization than the congress which took place in March 1938 in Berlin. This congress, which - let us realize - 5 years after Hitler took power under Nazi totalitarianism, gathered 5,000. delegates from all over the German Reich, the congress which began with the Holy Mass celebrated in the churches of Berlin, then in the People's Theatre 5 thousand met. delegates in a beautiful scene, on which there was a powerful sign of the rod, on which there were religious and patriotic symbols of Poles in Germany, was an amazing manifestation of attachment to Polishness. In discussing this resolution we can wish today Poles in Germany, living in a completely different reality, in many ways After all, it is much easier, easier, for them to draw patterns from that congress, from that event, from that organization, from that discipline, from that ideology and devotion, and from that unity that we know is still lacking. Let us remind once again five truths, which are also expressed in one of the most important principles, which should guide Polish foreign policy, which should guide Poles, or five truths of Poles, which express the principle of national unity, national unity across borders. First of all, we are Poles - Poles adopted in 1938 at the Congress in Berlin. Secondly, the faith of our fathers is the faith of our children. Thirdly, the Pole is a Polish brother. Fourth, every day the Pole serves the nation. Fifthly, our Polish mother - we must not speak ill of our mother. Ladies and gentlemen! The footage from this congress was preserved. To all those present here, in the hall, all who will be watching or watching this talk, I encourage them, I recommend to them: Listen to what the speakers who speak there have said. How powerful these speeches are, how full of power, how full of conviction. Photos from that event were preserved, and this recording remained despite the fact that the German radio, which was supposed to make the recordings, deceived the Polish radio station, Polish Radio, German radio did not make the recording. This event was recorded secretly on tapes. 500 copies were produced. After the start of World War II, Germany followed these copies. Two preserved, World War II survived two copies. Thanks to these copies, we have the opportunity to listen to this voice today. That is why I am very happy and present on this occasion, on the occasion of this debate, on the occasion of this resolution, an invitation to celebrate. Every year in Wrocław, the Family organizes celebrations on the anniversary of the Congress. The same will happen in 2018, on the round anniversary of the Berlin Congress. On 4 March at Ostrów Tumski we will meet in the capital of Lower Silesia under the motto: On truths of Poles we build greatness, the size which we see with young eyes. This is a quote from a young man's manifesto at the 1938 Berlin congress. Ladies and gentlemen! The last thing to emphasize, and I very much thank the initiators of the resolution, that the contemporary contexts were also raised there, that the issue of unequal, clearly unequal treatment of the Polish minority in Germany was raised in relation to the status that Germany enjoys in the Republic of Poland. I find it absolutely outrageous and shameful that the words that came out of this speaker moments ago from Mr Mieszkowski's mouth, and especially in Mr Niesiołowski's speech. They are absolutely disgraceful, because they strike not only at the Polish state's right in this respect, i.e. the hard fight for national interest, the fight for the rights of our national minorities abroad, these words hit the Polish minority itself, a minority, which, in fact, on an incomparably smaller scale, but unfortunately experiences all the time of repression. After all, we hear about German offices taking children away from Polish parents. This isn't fiction. The estate confiscated by the Goering decree has not been returned and I therefore call on us not to cover historical anniversaries exclusively with this cotillion approach. Let's put in some current issues. Last year, when Minister Schetyna first went to Berlin to celebrate the treaty, I asked: Will you raise the issue of minorities? She wasn't touched. I asked the Prime Minister: Will you address the issue of equal treatment of minorities? You have to pick it up. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u316	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us again, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - one and a half minutes. Mr Łukasz Schreiber, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u317	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to start by thanking you for this very important activity carried out in order to restore or strengthen Polish language learning in Germany. For this, we should thank the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we should thank the Polish-German group, above all Mr Szymon Szynkowski, aka Sęk, but to the greatest extent I send these thanks to the Association of Poles in Germany. Ladies and gentlemen! It's time, and I think it's time to talk about the abolition of the 1940 Goering decree. I therefore have a question for the applicant. My question is that, as you said, it is an opportunity for the first time in the history of the Polish Sejm to support the request to restore the status of minorities to Poles residing in Germany. What was it like before? Didn't the Polish Sejm have a position on this matter at all, or was it just considered during the committee's work as well as parliamentary teams? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u318	Thank you. Mr Robert Winnicki, not associated, has the floor. There's no envoy. Małgorzata Golińska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u319	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is sad that such an important circumstance the opposition uses to attack the Polish government. You are proposing a round table on the provisions of the treaty. Let me just remind you that over the last few years Germany has not filled in 70% the obligations contained in this Treaty. Wouldn't such a resolution strengthen the position of the Polish government? Another opposition proposal: leave them, i.e. Poles, in peace. After all, the union is celebrated by the 95th anniversary, and Poles are still treated as immigrants deprived of many privileges belonging to minorities. You want us to leave them alone? That is why I am asking the applicant, although it is actually obvious, but judging by the statements made by some Members, which are sufficient to define the Polish interest in Germany, not for all: Why is it so important to consider Poles as a minority? What does that have to do with anything? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u320	Thank you. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u321	Mr. Marshal! Let me start with the question: Is the rapporteur aware of the situation in 2001 when the Polish Union in Germany, if I remember correctly, perhaps led by Mr Józef Młynarczyk, changing his statute, as if he had abandoned this request, which today was written in the proposed draft resolution, about the recognition of Poles in Germany as an ethnic minority or a national minority? It is clear that many false arguments have been made in this case. Words have also been said, I would say, indicating that ideology, especially Mr Winnicki, is a message of rational thinking. It's not unusual. Nationalists have this in mind, that they are primarily driven by emotions, mostly negative, most often resentment, the consequences of which are very sad. May Mr Winnicki and his ideology never have an impact on governments in Poland, because we can only fear it. But the fact is that the minority, regardless of whether in Germany or Poland, is an indigenous population, which for many years, most often hundreds, lives in the territory. Before the war Poles were a minority. After the war [[♪ The bell ♪]] The boundaries, as Mr Niesiołowski said, have changed. Native Poles such as Silesians, Mazury simply does not exist within the borders of the German state. There are newcomers, former gastarbeiters...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u322	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u323	...there are immigrants. But that changes the character... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u324	Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u325	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, the pretext for this discussion is a big, important anniversary. So I don't want to talk about the context, the jubilee itself. The Polish organization working for 95 years has huge merits for Poland, for Polonia. I would just like to express my highest appreciation for this work of various people, often with different views, not always uniformly thinking, but guided by one good - the good of Poland and the good of Poles who lived in Germany. I'd like to thank you for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u326	Thank you. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u327	In fact, I was supposed to present the position of the Kukiz club15 and put them in writing. I didn't make it because I was at another meeting with the president. This question is motivated by Mr Protasiewicz's speech. I do not know whether Mr Protasiewicz knows under what circumstances, when Poles in Germany lost their minority status? It's just that if you If he knew, you wouldn't be asking such a question, which you question the point of demanding that Poles have minority status. I spoke to Minister Dziedziczak about this. Minister Dziedziczak made it clear that there is some kind of asymmetry in respect of the rights of the German minority in Poland and the Polish minority in Germany. This is a very serious issue, because the problem is that this issue has not been specifically enshrined in the 1991 Treaty. Therefore, I have such a very important question not only to the applicants, but also to the Sejm in its entirety and the government: When we actually take care of the Polish minority in Germany, and we will not only and only adopt such resolutions, although [[♪ The bell ♪]] are they needed? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u328	Thank you very much. Mr Protasiewicz, as corrected? [[Yeah, corrigendum.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u329	Then I will start by saying, sir, that assuming that I am a philanthropist is far-reaching, I would say, a statement. [[I didn't say that.]] So I am tired of sobering what is happening in Germany, in German politicians, and even in the way many Germans think, because I know many. My wife is Germanist and has many social relations with Eastern and Western Germany. But to say that the decision made in the Third Reich today has consequences for the democratically disassembled [[♪ The bell ♪]] The German state is now aware of the false use of history for current political purposes. And that's what I just called for not to do.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u330	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed... Excuse me, I invite the representative of the applicants of Mr Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u331	Thank you, Marshal. Firstly, thank you for these declarations, wishing to support the resolution, some expressed in a rather specific way, such as. in the case of Mr. Marshal Professor Niesiołowski. Anyway, I thank him for his support. I guess it's a little hard to relate to the rest. I answer questions. Mr Łukasz Schreiber asked about the question of taking up this subject in the past. Indeed, this subject at committee level was taken several times in the Sejm. Here special activity was shown by the Commission for Communication with Poles abroad, adopting disiderments: first in 2001, next in 2006, later in 2007, in 2009, last in 2013. I would like to stress with all determination - I would like to say honestly that for this reason I am particularly proud and even somewhat moved - that I have the honour for the first time before the High Chamber, in the sense of the House as a whole, to present a draft resolution, in which the Sejm faces a historic opportunity for the first time that the entire High House supports this important demand for recognition, the restoration of the status of minorities to Poles residing in Germany. Ms Małgorzata Golińska asked what this minority status gave her. Today in Germany, four ethnic groups can enjoy this status formally: the Danish, Serbian, Frisian and German Sinti and Roma. This status allows certain classification of funding for those minorities which are at a completely different level than for those minorities or groups that do not have this status. This is a guarantee, it is not a continuous negotiation, dragging a rope, whether it is too little or too much, talks that have been going on for years in the case of Poles residing in Germany. This balance from our point of view is still unsatisfying, because we can't even find out to this day how much Germany spends on learning Polish throughout the country, even though Poland can present such data. This is about PLN 150 million, it is certainly much more than it seems in Germany to learn Polish. Such asymmetry is simply a fact. If the status of minorities was valid, if Poles had it, then it would be possible to obtain the right to money for this purpose, as well as for projects, to strengthen Polish traditions, for a whole range of other things which are guaranteed to minorities. In the case of Mr Protasiewicz, there was, let's say, a formula of the question, that's how I read it. He said that it was impossible to refer to this pre-war status because of the boundaries. However, I would like to say that, as far as it is, of course, that it is difficult to apply minority criteria to those who have come to Germany in recent years, but still in Germany, even in the Ruhr, there are descendants of those families who have lived there for a long time, who have just been granted pre-war minority status. Historically, this group may not be large, but it is impossible to deny the status of this group, which was already in force in its case. In conclusion, thank you again for all the questions, for the votes in support. I hope that the High House will accept this special, important resolution for those concerned by the acclamation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u332	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u333	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I present my position on the resolution on the celebration of the 95th anniversary of the Association of Poles in Germany. The purpose of this resolution is evident. The Polish Union in Germany has been operating since 1922. Since then, he has been guarding the interests of the Polish national minority, the Polish cultural and historical heritage located within Germany. He was involved in Polish-German political, educational and economic life. The sign Rodo, accepted by the union, shows the idea that the creators of the relationship were guided by: emphasising the relationship with the greatest symbols of Polishness at that time: Krakow and the Vistula. The relationship worked in very difficult conditions. The moment of the uprising is important. Contrary to the popular position, anti-Polish policy of the German state has not increased since the establishment of the Third Reich. Its origins actually reach the Weimar Republic questioning not only the Versailles order adopted after World War I, but also the very existence of the Polish state, which stood in defence of Poles located within German borders. Presenting support for this resolution, one cannot overlook the basis of the ideal activity of the union, i.e. the five truths of the Pole, adopted in special circumstances, in the face of the German threat to Poland, during the Congress of Poles in Berlin in March 1938. More than 5,000 participated in it. persons. The words of the five truths of the Pole prove the extraordinary courage of the members of the Polish Union in Germany. They're very patriotic. Today, it is worth recalling some of the MEPs, who are literally flying to Brussels and complaining about the country they represent. Especially it would be good for them to remember that our Polish Mother - we must not speak ill of Mother. The historical role of Poles in Germany is borne out by the Palace Radziwiłłłowski, which served as a centre of musical, literary and theatrical life of the Polish minority. Thanks to its dynamic activity, the German Polonia had its economic structures, agri-trade companies, cooperatives and professional union, printers, newspapers, schools, excursions, social care institutions, cultural associations, artistic teams and sports clubs, and even the Central Bank of Polish Cooperatives, so-called. The Bank of Slavs. Thus, historical facts emphasize the important role of the Polish minority in Germany, but also its formally regulated status. It is also important to remember the Martyrology of Poles living in Germany and union activists during World War II. After the German aggression, they were included in a special list of enemies of the Reich, so-called. Sonderfahndungsbuch Polen, prepared by Sicherheitsdienst in Berlin. Mass arrests of Polish intelligence and ethnic cleansing were carried out as part of Operation Tannenberg and Intelligenzaktion. The Polish Union itself in Germany has been delegated and its assets have been confiscated. The essence of the modern activity of the union is the desire to provide aid from the German federal and local authorities, which is suitable for helping the German minority in Poland. Let us hope that the most important postulate of the union, i.e. restoring the status of a national minority to Poles, received in 1940, will be supported by the Polish Parliament and the Polish Government not only by adopting this resolution, but also by their actual actions. The issue of the location of the Polish minority and guaranteeing its rights on the basis of reciprocity as well as the return of the assets belonging to the Polish national minority in neighbouring countries, including Germany, was the subject of my interpellation to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage and the Minister of Internal Affairs and Administration. Minister Jan Dziedziczak, speaking on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, stated that the current situation of the Polish minority in Germany was not the result of the 1991 treaty and the practice of public life in Germany, as well as the lack of care of the previous team for its fate. Minister Dziedziczak rightly noted that the existing asymmetricality in the level of guaranteeing the powers of the Polish national minority in Germany and Germany in Poland does not result directly from the provisions concluded between the states of the treaty. The Minister added that the German authorities' reluctance to grant the Polish minority group the status of national minorities, within the meaning of their internal legislation, could indeed create some kind of organisational difficulties for the German authorities and provide a basis for negative decisions on certain specific issues. Undoubtedly this is the situation of children of Polish parents. This was also the subject of my interpellation, exemplified by specific cases of abuse of competence by the German public administration. The short and general history of the Polish Union in Germany, the actual position of Poles in Germany, causes that before the union there is much more to do. Club Kukiz'15 supports the content and motivation of the contested resolution in its entirety.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u334	We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min. 26 hours 17 min 34]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Commission on Communication with Poles abroad on the draft law amending the Law on repatriation and the Act on Foreigners (prints No. 1904 and 1959). I ask Mrs Małgorzata Wypych to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u335	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report of the Communications Commission with Poles abroad and the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission to the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Law on repatriation and the Act on foreigners. High Izbo! I inform you that the Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 11 October 2017, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Commission for Communication with Poles abroad and the Commission for Administration and Home Affairs for first reading. After first reading and considering this draft law on 25 October, the Commission introduced two substantive amendments and amendments of an editorial and legislative nature and clarification. The committees invite the High Sejm to announce the attached project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u336	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mrs Anna Schmidt-Rodziewicz, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u337	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the draft law amending the Law on repatriation and the Act on Foreigners from Print No. 1904. The proposed legislation provides for instruments aimed at effectively helping to solve repatriation problems. The assumed effect of these changes is to increase the number of families coming to Poland every year and, so expected, to complete the process of repatriation. Experiences related to the application of the provisions of the recently amended Law on repatriation to people residing in the Polish House in Pułtusek, as well as comments and suggestions from other persons and entities involved in the process of repatriation, indicate the need to clarify certain solutions in order to improve the process of settling repatriates in Poland and eliminate interpretation doubts. While presenting the position of the club, I would also like to point out the key changes contained in the project. First of all, the amendment significantly increases the amount of cash benefits granted to the repatriant for the purchase of the apartment. According to the novel, the repatriate's family will receive additional assistance of up to 25 thousand. zł. In addition, each of its members will be covered separately. The funds will therefore not only be received by the repatriate but also by the closest members of his family: his spouse and children, which means that the amount of aid will increase several times. It is a huge financial support, which aims to really adapt the level of benefits to the situation on the housing market and thus improve the process of adapting the families of the repatriates to the living conditions in Poland. In order to provide additional incentives for municipalities to provide apartment replacements and adaptation assistance, the applicant proposes to link the grant amount to the actual cost of providing housing in the district concerned. This will encourage municipalities to step up their efforts in this direction. In addition, the legislator introduces the concept of the immediate family repatriate. Spouses of repatriates already residing in Poland are proposed to include an institution of recognition as a repatriate, which will allow to provide, especially for older people, support in the field of pension rights. In addition, the concept of candidate for a repatriate is defined in order to unambiguously identify the persons to whom conditions for settling in Poland can be provided. To date, persons who applied for a repatriation visa before the entry into force of the previous amendment were excluded from the Act, i.e. before 1 May 2017. This amendment therefore extends the catalogue of these persons, allowing them to be covered by the aid offered by the Polish State. With regard to the demands made by our fellow countrymen in the East, the legislator also abolished the obligation to prove that the person was deported or sent by the Soviet Union authorities. The removal of the provision was a serious restriction for those who declared and declared their willingness to repatriate, and the reproduction of the required documentation in the case of many of them remains impossible. The last of the changes is addressed to members of the immediate family of the repatriate, who for various reasons cannot take advantage of the possibility of coming to Poland on the basis of a national visa for repatriation. For them, it will be possible to legalize your stay in Poland on the basis of a permanent residence permit in a simplified manner. To conclude, I would like to stress that the introduction of these changes will be another step in fulfilling the moral obligations of the Polish state towards its compatriots and their descendants who, against their will, were outside the borders of their homeland. These changes will contribute to the creation of worthy and good conditions for them to return and settle in Poland. This is the realization of Poland's great commitment to its compatriots. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I would like to stress that the Law and Justice Club will support the proposed bill. Mr. Marshal, at the same time on the basis of the article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm on behalf of the President of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice I propose an amendment to the bill amending the Law on repatriation and the Act on foreigners, prints No 1904 and 1959. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u338	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u339	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club regarding the draft law from print No. 1904. The Parliamentary draft Print Act No 1904 is an amendment concerning the Law on the amendment of the Repatriation Act adopted on 7 April this year and some other laws which entered into force in May this year, so almost 6 months ago. The revision is necessary due to the lack of precision - and with certain legal errors - of its preparation. These legislative amendments must be adopted in order for the law to be better. It doesn't raise any doubts. By the way, records have been introduced, some of which have been beneficial, but some of which have definitely been unfavourable to the repatriates. I will discuss these in particular because they will be related to questions to applicants, to which an answer is needed. First of all, people in adaptation centres were deprived of a benefit of PLN 200 per month. However, this benefit, in total small, not very incriminating, is such a kind of pocket money for repatriates for hygiene or cosmetic products, and often also - as I was told - for food, because rations are not always individually sufficient. So, above all, they must not be deprived of, or replaced by, these resources. Of course, the repatriates will get more money to buy the apartment, but staying at the resort can be very long. We'll talk about that in a minute. It is also proposed that financial assistance should be directed exclusively to the repatriate and his relatives who came with him to Poland. Okay, but this help will not be covered by e.g. the child of the mother who came here, who's in an adaptation facility. The child was born here in Poland, so for him all these benefits will not be available. How can we solve this problem? That's also a question. Young people come very often. Not only can a pregnant mother be pregnant, but she'll probably be a common occurrence in mass repatriation. So I would ask you to answer how this problem will be resolved, whether this child will actually be deprived of financial assistance. The project also does not find a viable solution to the housing case. I wanted to ask here whether this issue was consulted with local authorities, because in the case of grants to the municipality approx. 180,000. for a 4-person family, calculated at the average that is given, approx. 40 m2. I think that the four-person family and 40 m2 is not a satisfactory state, because it is at the limit of the minimum locality. What Madam President just said was that this is a salary. For hurting you. This remuneration should be fair. So who's gonna pay? Or government? Because this apartment should certainly be larger than approx. 40 m2. But who's gonna give that extra money? Finally, the proposal to increase the numbers of the Repatial Council is even more unjustified. It was supposed to be five people, they were supposed to be people with experience in repatriation, knowledge and experience. So if you want to ask anyone, you can ask anyone. I think if you propose such a provision in the bill, it's probably about rewarding those people. Isn't it a waste of money for advice, for council members? Isn't it better to hand them over to the repatriates? And finally, the questions. I would like to ask, and ask for a written reply, how many repatriates have been brought in this six months under the new law. The question that comes back like boomerang: What after 90 days or 180 days if there is no apartment? What's the fate of the repatriate? Finally, it is a question that has already been asked, but I will repeat it: Were there consultations with local governments? Because these responsibilities and burdens will fall to local governments. So is the local government aware of this and have you talked, or have the applicants conducted such consultations? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u340	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Zielińska, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u341	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present my position on behalf of the Kukiz club15 on the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Repetition Act and the Foreigners Act. The Kukiz Club15 does not have much to say about adapting the amendment to the actual process of repatriation. Several months showed that the spring amendment this year had many legislative errors. It is natural that this process should be adapted to administrative and social conditions. However, we must remember that it is equally important - because here the focus is on funding - that there should be a process of adaptation to social life, to the labour market, which would solve many problems. Discussions about those instruments that are being introduced, we actually did it a few months ago. At that time we expressed doubts, among others. as regards the council, the existence of this advice, whether it is really necessary, but also as regards the role of proxy or housing aid. As I said before, we have no comment on the adjustment to these conditions, because we understand that after a few months, however, it turned out that the whole process of repatriation needs to be improved. At the same time, we are a little worried about a way of thinking that has been repenting for many, many years. The amendment indicates that the aim is to increase the number of repatriations. And we are talking about this repatriation, and we are not focusing enough on helping our fellow countrymen who continue to live in the end. And it is also in our vital interest that these ends should not be nationalized. We should also feel a commitment to help there, on the spot, to meet the needs of access to education, to culture, to shape our own identity. The Kukiz Club15 is in favour of the proposed amendment, the draft law on the amendment of the Law on repatriation and the Act on foreigners. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u342	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u343	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Modern has no big reservations about this bill. I am pleased to present the position of the modern club in relation to the report of the committee on the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the act on repatriation and the act on foreigners, the print no. 1904 and later the report of the committee. If we have to correct the bill that was passed in April this year, this is the case. just one thing - it means that we do not really maintain certain legislative standards and we do not analyze the problem in depth to resolve it through such legal solutions. In general, it can be said that this law actually increases the ability to adapt the repatriates, because the larger funds are intended for the main thing that is needed to enable the repatriates to start a normal life in Poland, i.e. apartments. If we provide them with housing, then it's definitely easier to take care of the rest later. Therefore, this financial assistance, which is extended, is a good move. Here there have already been comments from the Member that this aid may not be sufficient. Therefore, cooperation between the government and local governments is necessary because it is true that local governments will also take on other obligations arising from the presence of such a family in their territory. It's a question of possibly, I don't know, nursery, kindergarten, school. These are the things that the government will have to provide. There was a discussion here about changes in the Polish Charter, because there were comments or notes about the fact that the status of the repatriate can also be obtained by a person who for 3 years will show commitment in terms of cultivating the language or history of Poland. She can use it, too. We had the assurance on the committee that the Ministry would be careful to ensure that there was no abuse in this field. So I hope it all works out like this. We all know what the demographic situation is in Poland, and therefore the influx of people who are repatriants who have Polish roots is as good as possible and everything should be done to enable them to return to their ancestors' homeland. But we should make sure that the situation does not have to happen, and unfortunately, there have been cases where after two to three years such families return because they were unable to find themselves here and the conditions that were created here were not the best. Finally, I wanted to make an amendment at second reading. I believe - I have already mentioned this fact - that this legislative process is not always appropriate, here too we have an example of the fact that a 48-hour vacathio legis is being introduced for the bill, so I am making an amendment so that the law enters into force 14 days after the date of the announcement. Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u344	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u345	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u346	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u347	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present my position towards the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the law on repatriation and the act on foreigners, print No. 1904. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed legislation provides for instruments aimed at effectively helping to solve the housing problems of the repatriates. It is proposed to increase the level of aid for the purchase of the apartment granted to the repatriate and members of his immediate family and the common household by an amount of 25 000. Evil on the family. The Act is to introduce incentives However, it should be recalled that nothing without local governments, because local governments always want to work with the government. It is therefore a good domain that, as far as the municipalities are concerned, financial resources are provided, in the case of housing, adaptation it is proposed to link the amount of the grant with the actual cost of providing housing in the district concerned and to introduce in this respect a differentiation of the amount of the grant to the invited municipalities. It is proposed to cover entire families, not their individual members. It is a good concept, the immediate family of the repatriate is understood as a spouse and a minor child under the parental authority of at least one of the parents who came to the Republic of Poland together with the repatriant. Spouses of repatriates already residing in Poland are proposed to be included in the institution of reparation, which will allow for the provision, especially for the elderly, of support in the field of pension rights. It is also proposed to allow members of the immediate family of the repatriate who, for various reasons, cannot benefit from the possibility of coming to Poland on the basis of a national visa to repatriate, to legalize their stay in Poland on the basis of a permanent residence permit in a simplified manner. The Polish People's Party strongly supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u348	Thank you very much. Mr Ireneusz Gains, Frees and Solidarni have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u349	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the Commission for Administration and Internal Affairs and the Commission for Communication with Poles abroad on the draft law amending the Act on Repatriation and the Act on Foreigners. The bill is to be a fulfillment of the promise made by the President of the Council of Ministers during the meeting with the repatriates on the 80th anniversary of the first mass deportation of Poles to Kazakhstan by the Soviet authorities. During this meeting the Prime Minister assured that the government would not rest until every Pole and Pole who wanted to return to Poland returned. We, as Poles, should give priority to the affairs of our compatriots, who, through the difficult history of our nation, lost the opportunity to live in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The aim of this bill is to speed up the return of repatriates to the country and to introduce new forms of aid, including financial aid. Changes are necessary because, as the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber indicates, the Law of 9 November 2000 on repatriation has, in fact, created legal possibilities for returning to Poland to the persons indicated in the article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, but for 13 years the problem of repatriating people from these countries has not been resolved. According to data from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the repatriation to Poland is interested in about 10 thousand. There is no doubt, therefore, that the process and efficiency of public administrations should be accelerated. In the light of the newly proposed solutions in the draft law, taking into account the importance and complexity of the problem of repatriation, a government representative office for repatriation will be established together with the advisory and advisory body, i.e. Repetition Council. The proposals contained in the draft law respond to the problems identified at the time of the public consultation related to the current shape of the law and the practice of its application. These are, first of all, cumbersome and unclear procedures related to the return of the repatriates to the country, concerns about the possibility of ensuring in the future the destination of the repatriates in the repatriates' centres and in municipal dwellings at the disposal of local self-government units, concerns about the future provision of jobs for the repatriates in accordance with their qualifications, as well as concerns about poor knowledge of Polish language or complete ignorance of Polish language by the repatriates, including the organisation and financing of language courses in municipalities or repatriates' centres, concerns about the adaptation process of repatriates in Polish society - hence the introduction of an institution of the repatriant's assistant. To sum up, the bill responds to the problems and concerns that are currently emerging to the public. We know how difficult it is to find ourselves in a new reality, moving from Poland to the city. It is not easy to find a new school for children, a new place of work. This requires time, especially if the case concerns a person who lives thousands of kilometres and does not speak Polish well or knows the realities of the Polish labour market and socio-economic dependency. It prioritises issues related to professional activation and ad hoc financial assistance for repatriates and facilitates procedures. It cannot be that the application submitted has been examined for 8 years and, in extreme cases, even for 10 years. A state acting in such a slow way in such an important matter as repatriation cannot be satisfied with itself. This is why it is important to appreciate and support this legislative initiative. Appreciation should be given to Members of the applicants who have noted the existing need to amend this law. I believe that the bill after its entry into force will be a really felt good change for our compatriots wishing to return to their homeland. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of the bill amending the Law on repatriation and the Foreigners Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u350	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you want to sign up for the floor, you're welcome. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. As the first Mr Wojciech Zięniak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u351	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Repatriation, the Latin word "repatriatiatio" means "return to homeland." With these changes in the bill, we conclude the legal process allowing people who are forced to return to their country of residence. You could say it's better late than never. In connection with the completion of the entire legislative process, I have questions. First: Do we know how many people can try to return to their homeland? Second: Do you know how many municipalities declare the reception of repatriates? And third: Do you know how much the whole process will cost, and is the money planned for it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u352	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u353	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. Many people deported from Poland by Soviet invaders reached Kazakhstan, Kamchatka, other very remote areas of the Soviet Union. For them and for their descendants to enter Poland, moving with practically everything, with all possessions is something very difficult. I wanted to ask: Is there any possibility of helping in these organisational matters, especially when it concerns older people who were personally affected by the deportation? The second question concerns the way in which this money for housing and any other assistance will reach the families of the repatriates. How will they be organized to help them get an apartment? This is where one of the Members returned [[♪ The bell ♪]] language considerations. This is a very important matter. I think a social campaign like this would be useful, even if our attitude towards the Russian language, which is sometimes...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u354	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u355	...the only language the repatriates speak. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u356	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u357	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question, because all these statutory amendments were also based on some of the experiences that emerged when the last group of repatriates was adopted in December 2016. I have questions for the Minister. What is the fate of these people? Are some still staying at the repatriate center? Has everyone managed to organize their stay in Poland? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u358	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u359	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The last two repatriates transports to Poland were prepared by the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. These people have arrived, and as for the ones that Prime Minister Szydło recently welcomed, the transport was prepared by the previous government. So I'd like to... [[Game in the O.R.]] I would ask you not to disturb me, Mr Marshal, Mrs Butterwska. [[How can you not be disturbed?]] So I'd like to ask you something, because in this process of repatriating from Donbass, many cities... [[The person who always yells at the jury.]] ...prepared apartments for repatriates and should be thanked very much for this, among others. President Rzeszow, President Bydgoszcz and others who have prepared apartments for them and, above all, the centers of the Fishermen. In the context of this action, I would like to ask: Does the Polish government have a project? What is the repatriation policy adopted by the government? How many repatriates do you expect coming to Poland in 2017 and 2018? The point is that we should talk about these issues and certainly work in cooperation with local governments as before. I think it's going to be that way now, too. It's not just a matter of housing, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But also working with the repatriates, with the local authorities in the field of employment. So it's mostly about the repatriation program. And once again, I give thanks to the self-government who accepted the repatriates. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u360	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u361	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I wanted to give my thanks to the Government of Law and Justice for the fact that the approach to repatriation has changed considerably. And I'm gonna say yes. I was in Kazakhstan in the spring of 2016 after 8 years of government of the Civic Platform and PSL and what I heard most often was the regret of Poles living there that Poland forgot about them that the Germans were able to bring their own, and... [[But you didn't transport it for two years.]] Madam, you ask me not to disturb you, so let me speak, because now is my time. It is such a huge, huge regret that Poland did not bring them, and other countries could do it. And I want to thank you very much for the fact that last December Poles could come to Poland, that we are now taking further steps to make it easier for them, to simplify to give Poles the opportunity to return from Kazakhstan to Poland. Minister, how many Poles have arrived lately? Is it planned to import Poles from Kazakhstan to Poland this year? Most importantly: How many Poles still declare their willingness to come to Poland? Because I have often heard that after all these years their homeland has not brought in, and they are old - from these older people I have heard - they will not leave Kazakhstan, at most their children and grandchildren. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What's the interest? Now go back to Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u362	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please address the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Sebastian Chwałk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u363	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the applicants for the proposal submitted. In fact, it is a response to various problems arising from specific, single cases of the inability of families repatriated to Poland to apply existing regulations. All the votes that appeared here were mostly taken into account in the changes made at the moment in the bill. As a representative of the government for repatriation - because the Government of Law and Justice entrusted me with this mission; in May this year the Prime Minister authorized me to act on behalf of the Government on these issues - of course I support the project and I believe that we still have a great deal of work to do when it comes to the horsepower of bringing to Poland, to the country of my fellow countrymen, who did not voluntarily find themselves in a country that had been left to themselves for many years. Nevertheless, I hope that the coming years will change their lives and we will be able to welcome more and more of our compatriots in Poland. I'm going back to a few questions that came up during today's sitting. First of all, plans and numbers. In Kazakhstan alone we have about 34 thousand people declaring Polish origin. We realize that not everyone will declare their willingness to come to Poland, for example because of age or in some sense the attachment to the house they created there. At this moment we have more than 2,600 people who are willing to come to Poland. As for 2017, except for 150 people who were imported and placed in the centre in Pułtusk, in total more than 150 people in various other modes managed to bring to Poland. That's, you can say, just 300 people at the start, and so to speak, moving this machine with new solutions. We still have a plan to make it a total of 450 this year. For 2018, we plan to implement the plans at the level of 1000 people, at least 1000 people. [[Applause]] For my part, I will do everything to ensure that this number is as high as possible, as the team working with me, as well as all other departments, especially the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which participates actively in this through its consulates in Kazakhstan or in faraway Siberia. So we still have a lot of work to do. In fact, many Poles still expect that they will finally have the opportunity to return to their homeland. Of course, they are also their descendants, descendants of those who were once deported there, but there are also people who, being several years old children, were there, and now, after so many years, will have the opportunity to stand on Polish soil and build their new home. Mr Tyszka asked for help, transmission, way... [[The marshal didn't ask for anything.]] Sorry, Mrs Tomaszewska asked about ways of helping, passing... [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr Marshal, I am so sorry, but Mrs Tomaszewska's question, which I would like to answer, is: What are the forms of money transfer? If we are talking about the transfer to the repatriates themselves, then of course these are funds transferred to their bank accounts, accounts established by the repatriates; as for those staying in Pułtusk, the banks offered interesting terms of keeping accounts, also honoring those particularly affected in people's lives. As far as the aid to be provided to local authorities is concerned, it is directly for the local authorities to carry out the renovation, adaptation of the apartments transferred to their residence. Language. Of course, both there and here in Poland, repatriates have the opportunity to learn Polish before and after arrival. This is essential. We know that many, many of them, of course, do not speak Polish for obvious reasons, never had the opportunity, never needed it, not all of them... was not always welcome in the country where they were in. Mr Meysztowicz also asked: "What about people from Pułtusk? [[How many other people are left at the facility?]] Physically it can be said that there are probably two families, but in fact they already expect only keys or at the end of renovations. So that this group of people who finished their stay in the resort in Pułtusku, in fact already, you can say, found apartments and jobs. I also have such an interesting example, because last week I had the opportunity to be in Kazakhstan, meet our compatriots there, get to know their expectations, see what it looks like to actually recruit proposals in consulates, and also talk to representatives of the government of Kazakhstan about the possibilities of making it easier for people interested in returning to Poland. The proposal, which was included in this amendment, to refrain from proving the issues necessary to obtain a repatriation visa, has been abolished. There's no need to prove that someone was being relocated there anymore. Therefore, there is no problem with obtaining documents in archives. This is one of the reasons why it is difficult for some to prove that they can exercise their powers, because the archives, in this case Kazakh or Russian, do not necessarily have documents that could give rise to the application. So that this element has also been neutralized. I don't think there are any more obstacles to the repatriates. Want... And these desires can be seen very much. At this last meeting there were about a few hundred people, probably more than 200?300 people who actually declare their willingness to join the base. Upon receipt of information that legislative work is also subject to changes that will further improve this arrival, this interest will probably increase. That is why I think there should be no doubt about the need to support these solutions, and I am counting on it. Thank you, too, for all the signals that have emerged, that individual clubs will support this project. This is important. I think that all of us, all of us Poles, should want our fellow countrymen to finally return to their country if they want to. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[And the answer for me, Minister? It's a repatriation plan.]] I presented that in 2018 we are going to bring at least 1000 people to Poland, and every year this number should only increase, because we will wipe the trail, we will develop a form that will certainly be able to reduce the number of people waiting to only those who are still wondering. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u364	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee, Mrs Małgorzata Wypych.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u365	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During this discussion, one important thing was mentioned here, but it was not underlined, namely what representatives of both the PSL and the Platform were talking about. It's about the weight of local governments. It seems that this could be another example, another possibility of such a deal over certain divisions, because in this change we are giving municipalities the opportunity to accept. Among other things. On Monday, a family from Kazakhstan will be admitted to one of the Opoczyn communities. These people already have a guaranteed place, guaranteed work. So that is another example of this cooperation. It is also important to increase this funding - 25 000. - for the repatriate and members of the immediate family, as well as for one family. The three-person family at this point actually gets 100,000. plus, according to the rules already in force, twice the average gross wage in the economy. So that we hope that, once all these amendments have been translated, we will simply be able to see success together in the form of effective help to our fellow countrymen who will want to come here as repatriates. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u366	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Communication Commission with Poles abroad in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe on the status of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe in the Republic of Poland, signed in Warsaw on 28 June 2017 (prints No 1872 and 1920). I ask Mr Józef Leśniak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u367	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Committee on Foreign Affairs vis-à-vis the government draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe on the status of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe in the Republic of Poland, signed in Warsaw on 28 June 2017, print No 1872. The need to bind the Republic of Poland to an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe stems both from the need to regulate the legal status of the OSCE in the territory of Poland and from the fact that the Republic of Poland functions as a State hosting the OSCE's autonomous institution. This is the Office of Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, ODIHR. Regulation of the OSCE's legal status in the territory of a part of the countries is desirable but not necessary. Such a need arises when the OSCE organisational unit is located in the territory of the State concerned. The Office of Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, the largest OSCE autonomous institution, has its seat in Warsaw. Mr. Marshal! The Sejm Analysis Office gave the committee a positive opinion on the draft law and on the procedure chosen by the government for ratification of the agreement. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, following its first reading and examination of the draft law on 12 October 2017, unanimously adopted a report requesting the adoption by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland of a draft law on ratification of the printing agreement No. 1872 without amendments. I'm asking you to accept it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u368	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u369	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! ODIHR is the largest autonomous institution of the OSCE and has its seat in Warsaw. The Office of Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, based in Warsaw, was created by the provisions of the Paris Charter for New Europe signed on 21 November 1990, initially as the Office of Free Elections. However, there is now a need to conclude an agreement. The signing of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe on the status of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe in the Republic of Poland on 28 June 2017 constitutes a significant step towards the full fulfilment of the commitments of the Republic of Poland as the host State of the OSCE and ODIHR. The ratification of this agreement is a logical legal consequence of the previous decisions taken by the Government of the Republic of Poland. The political benefits of the agreement are also to eliminate the risk of transferring ODIHR headquarters to another country. I have often heard of such requests from other countries as a Polish representative, a member of the Polish delegation to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. It was such a scare that we would take ODIHR from Poland somewhere else, that it could function better there. I am therefore very pleased that today I am pleased to be at the point where we are proceeding to ratify the agreement between Poland and the OSCE. Any decision to transfer ODIHR outside the Republic would be a serious loss for Poland in political and image terms. The location of ODIHR headquarters in the Republic of Poland has become a symbol of appreciation for our country. It should be stressed that it is the largest international institution established in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The activities of ODIHR have been recognised by the international community. ODIHR organises a number of important meetings and conferences in Warsaw, including the largest conference on human rights and democracy in Europe, the annual 2-week Review Meeting of the Human Dimension, which gathered around 1400 people in 2016. A clear definition of the legal basis for the functioning of the OSCE and ODIHR in the Republic of Poland can also contribute to encouraging other international organisations to place their institutions in the territory of the Republic of Poland. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of my Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice [[♪ The bell ♪]] I declare my full support for the bill on ratification of the agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u370	Thank you. Mr Norbert Obricki, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u371	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club the position of the club on the governmental draft law on ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the OSCE on OSCE status in the Republic of Poland, signed on 28 June 2017. The bill concerns the Office of Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, the OSCE's agenda, which is based in Warsaw, and its legal status in Poland. The Bureau was established in 1990 on the basis of the Paris Charter. The Free Election Office, and during the second conference in Helsinki, its name was changed to the current one. Warsaw was chosen as its seat, which was and is a symbol of recognition for our country and its path towards democracy and respect for human rights. No one expected that, 27 years after the establishment of the OSCE agenda, we would face an attack on democratic institutions in Poland: the division of power, the independence of courts, the independence and freedom of action of NGOs, as well as the stubbornness of public media or the persecution of peaceful demonstrators. Therefore, it is also appropriate to grant the OSCE and its officials, under the Immunity Act, the OSCE's premises, property and assets, the immunity of OSCE documents and the release of the OSCE from public danin. The Act regulates the legal status of the OSCE agenda in Poland, but it also has a political and prestigious dimension, which is important for the international image of Poland in the world. It will also allow us to avoid the unsavory situations that took place in the case of other international institutions established in Poland, which were invaded under the rule of the PiS, like the NATO Expert Centre for Counterintelligence, which did not bring Poland prestige. The Civic Platform will, for these reasons, of course support the law introducing, among others. Immunity to protect officials and OSCE property and documents in Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u372	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Zielińska, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u373	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. The purpose of the Agreement is to regulate the legal status of the OSCE in the territory of the Republic of Poland on the basis of a bilateral agreement. There has been a need for such regulation for a long time, as the OSCE institutions established in the country should have legal status. In Poland, this is the seat of ODIHR, the Office of Democratic Institutions and Human Rights. The 1997 Constitution, which introduced regulations on the sources of law, caused that acts related to OSCE presence in Poland were not a universal source of law. The Agreement grants the personality and legal capacity of the OSCE and its institutions, such as ODIHR, and determines the privileges and immunities of the officials of the Organisation. The Kukiz Club15 supports the regulation of those issues which were included in this agreement and will vote in favour of the draft ratification law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u374	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Truskolasna, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u375	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Modern Club, I would like to present our position on the draft law on ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe on the status of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe in the Republic of Poland. This is because the resolution of the Council of Ministers of 5 June 1992, which has so far regulated the status of OSCE in Poland, has ceased to apply. The non-regulation of the OSCE's legal situation could therefore result in the possible transfer of the seat of the Office of Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, the largest international institution established in Poland, to another country. The project also regulates the legal situation of OSCE officers, i.e. management and officials employed there. As far as ODIHR's leadership is concerned, they were used e.g. the provisions of the 1961 Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations The authors of the bill hope that if the OSCE is legally present in our country, it will be possible to attract other international institutions to negotiate the conditions for the presence of their representations in the Republic of Poland, e.g. About Brexit. This obviously has positive image implications for Poland. The draft law in its current form constitutes indirectly a declaration by the Polish Government that it intends to respect all obligations of the Republic of Poland in respect of respect for human rights and civil rights, as well as the principles of the rule of law. However, as far as the latter aspect is concerned, comprehensive action is needed. It is not possible to achieve positive results in this area only by regulating the legal status of the OSCE if the independence of the judiciary is violated in the country and the prosecution is subject to the Minister of Justice. The OSCE, like other international institutions that the government wants to attract to our country, will not take the statutory guarantees seriously, since the enforcement of its rights in the event of violations will take place before government-controlled courts. An important aspect is also that some provisions of the draft law on the agreement between the Polish Government and the OSCE in the Polish language version introduce restrictive meanings. In the English version it is possible to interpret these entries more widely. Nevertheless, the Modern Club is in favour of adopting the bill on ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u376	Thank you very much, sir. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Please take the floor of Mr Marek Sawicki, the club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u377	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club, I would like to support the draft law ratifying the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the OSCE. To be honest, in this discussion various types of pinches concerning Poland's internal affairs in relation to Poland - OSCE relations are unnecessary. The ratification of this law will certainly strengthen Poland's position on the international stage, not weaken it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u378	Thank you very much, sir. Two people entered on the list of people who wanted to ask a question. Would any of you like to sign up? I can't see. I'll close the list then. And I would very much like to ask Mrs Barbara Bartus, the Law and Justice Club, to ask her first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u379	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Ministry. In my speech, I talked about the risks of moving ODIHR headquarters from Warsaw somewhere else. I would like to ask, because this subject was probably raised mainly by Russia as such a scare, as far as real it was that Poland could lose - so it should be considered, it would be a major loss - the ODIHR headquarters. How do the OSCE authorities cooperate with the Polish government? I have the impression that this cooperation has improved recently. I would like to hear from you whether, following the changes of the authorities in ODIHR, this cooperation is not better in the OSCE. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u380	Thank you, Member. And the second question will be asked by Ewa Tomaszewska, also by the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u381	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe is the one that has been organising election observation for many years. These are very detailed, formally organised electoral registrations in countries where there is no certainty as to whether elections will be democratic. I have participated in such observations in Turkey, Azerbaijan, Serbia and several other countries. For this reason, I believe that it is worth continuing this relationship so that Poland is the country in which the OSCE structure is located. [[♪ The bell ♪]] My question is actually what Mrs Bartus asked just now, i.e. the chance to maintain this office after formal regulation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u382	Thank you very much. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Mr Jack Chaputowicz to speak and answer the questions asked. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u383	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will address two questions to the government on this matter in a moment, but I would also like to refer to the speech of the representative of the Civic Platform, Mr Norbert Obrick, who, as if suggesting some threat to democracy in Poland. If that were the case, the government would not be interested in strengthening the OSCE's role, i.e. the institution which is responsible for strengthening democracy and monitoring human rights. It's not like that, there's no danger. It can be said that the Government of Law and Justice is only now repairing certain negligence related to the situation of the Office of Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, which has not been resolved since the adoption of the Constitution in 1997. [[Applause]] There is no threat, and there is no certainty that the human rights situation and democratic institutions in Poland are in line with OSCE standards. I answer questions, courteous questions from Mrs. Barbara Bartus and Mrs. Eve Tomaszewska. There were discussions, there were such voices, passed rather informally to Polish diplomats, suggestions for transferring institutions from Poland. It was the voices, I'll put it straight, from the Russian diplomats. Of course, the regulation of this issue, ensuring the security and independence of institutions in Warsaw crosses these speculations. I would like to say that the negotiations on the content of this agreement were in a very good atmosphere. The Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe confirmed this in the Council of Europe. Today, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs sees no danger in terms of stability, certainty, location, location of this institution in Warsaw. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u384	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: the report by the Commission for European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Political Dialogue and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Cuba, of the other part, drawn up in Brussels on 12 December 2016 (prints No 1866 and 1939). I ask Mr Józef Leśniak to present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u385	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the joint committees, i.e. Commission for European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on a Governmental Draft Law on the ratification of the Political Dialogue and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Cuba, of the other part, drawn up in Brussels on 12 December 2016, print No 1866. The aim of the agreement is to consolidate and strengthen the links between the parties in the areas covered by political dialogue, cooperation and trade. These relations will be aimed at supporting the modernisation of the Cuban economy and society, bilateral cooperation and international fora with a view to strengthening human rights and democracy, including combating discrimination and achieving the SDGs. The agreement contains essential elements for the European Union: human rights clauses and non-proliferation clauses, the violation of which may lead to suspension of the agreement. The signing of the agreement and its subsequent entry into force are part of the policy of the Republic of Poland towards the Latin American and Caribbean region, aimed at promoting political dialogue and expanding the areas of cooperation. The normalization of the relations between the European Union, its Member States, with Cuba is, you can say, the goal of... I'm sorry, with the Latin American region... The aim is to promote political dialogue and expand areas of cooperation, especially in the economic context, in terms of diversification of markets. Both the European Union and the United States are following human rights issues in Cuba through specially established institutional dialogues. It is to be hoped that through institutional dialogue, we will be able to observe the Cuban reality closely, indirectly influence the actions and decisions of the authorities, and especially as a country after the transitions of the past era, to share the experience of transformation. Poland participates actively in the working groups of the Member States of the European Union, such as COLAC in the area of political relations with Latin American and Caribbean countries and COHOM in the area of human rights, where it presents its position on the situation in Cuba. Our office in Havana is also active, both within the European Union countries in Havana and in bilateral contacts with civil society members. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The joint committees, the Committee on European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, after first reading and considering the draft law at its meeting on 25 October 2017, adopted it unanimously and requested that the Parliament of the Republic of Poland adopt the draft law from print No. 1866 without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u386	Thank you for presenting the report. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And I ask you to speak on behalf of the law and justice club of Mr Konrad Głębocki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u387	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Law and Justice Club our position on the draft law on ratification of the Political Dialogue and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Cuba, on the other hand, drawn up in Brussels on 12 December 2016. The whole agreement is based on three pillars. Firstly, the first pillar is the basis for a political dialogue covering a number of areas, including, among others, human rights, but also disarmament and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, combating the production, smuggling and consumption of illicit narcotic drugs. The second pillar is cooperation and dialogue in sectoral policies. Applies to e.g. legal issues also in the areas of human rights, justice, social, environmental and development. Thirdly, the third pillar is a trade agreement. Of course, these relations are regulated by the WTO, but this agreement is intended to help, among others. on issues relating to standards, not just technical ones. By the way, the current US administration of President Donald Trump is very sceptical about the effectiveness of Havana's standardisation policy, for example. The U.S. Embassy in Havana, restored by President Barack Obama, was maintained by the current administration. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I am in favour of this government submission, while at the same time pointing out that the key issue will be how this agreement is implemented. It is a good thing that this agreement covers not only economic, security-related issues, but also human rights issues. It's made, among other things. The two common institutions, and now the representatives of the European Union, will depend on whether the agreement will be implemented in such a way that it will benefit the Member States of the European Union, inter alia. e.g. in economic terms, but also in terms of whether its implementation will also be effective in achieving full respect for human rights in Cuba. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u388	Thank you very much. And I will ask Mr Piotr Cieślinski to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u389	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its position on the draft law on ratification of the political dialogue and cooperation agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Cuba, on the other. The Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Cuba was signed in Brussels on 12 December 2016. Relations between the European Union and Cuba until the agreement is signed, i.e. By 12 December 2016, they were governed by the common position of 2 December 1996, which made the development of political contacts conditional on respect for human rights and civil liberties in Cuba. It must be made clear that such a way of regulating the relationship between the European Union and Cuba has proved in practice to be inefficient and, therefore, there has been a need to concreteise these relations. The purpose of the Agreement is to consolidate and strengthen the links between the parties in the areas covered by political dialogue, cooperation and trade, in accordance with the principles of mutual respect, reciprocity, community of interests and respect for the sovereignty of the parties. Relations will be aimed at supporting the modernisation of the Cuban economy and society, bilateral cooperation and international fora with a view to strengthening human rights and democracy, combating discrimination and achieving the SDGs. The provisions of the Agreement are in line with the principles of the political strategy of the Republic of Poland towards the Latin American and Caribbean region, which aims to promote political dialogue and extend areas of cooperation. The agreement creates the conditions for a decisive improvement of trade and investment relations between Poland and Cuba, which so far can be described as symbolic. So that we hope that Cuba will tempt us not only with tourism and not only encourage us to travel, but that we will establish first and foremost economic contacts that will allow us to develop cooperation. From the point of view of Poland, the provisions of the agreement concerning the rule of law and human rights, justice and the security of citizens are also particularly important. The agreement, which is important from the point of view of the government, does not create direct financial burdens for the Republic of Poland. I am pleased that the Minister is also pleased with this fact. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As a representative of the Parliamentary Group on I am pleased to announce that the Civic Platform Club will be in favour of the law on ratification of the cooperation agreement between the European Union and its Member States and the Republic of Cuba. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u390	Mr Maciej Masłowski will present his speech on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u391	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll try to talk less. Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour of speaking on behalf of the Kukiz club15 about printing 1866, the name of which has already been mentioned several times. The Agreement replaces the common position of the European Union of 1996. The aim of the agreement is to consolidate and strengthen the links between the parties in the areas covered by political dialogue, cooperation and trade. The agreement is constructed on the basis of three pillars, as we have heard before. These pillars include: political dialogue (human rights, disarmament and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, terrorism, combating production, smuggling and the consumption of illicit narcotic drugs, sustainable development), cooperation and dialogue on sectoral policy (future cooperation, political and legal issues, social issues, environmental issues), and - this is the third pillar - trade and trade cooperation. The Agreement merely confirms the existing commitments of the European Union and Cuba within the framework of the World Trade Organisation. It is worth to add here that Cuba is a marginal trading partner of Poland, but maybe someday it will change and it will get better and better. Therefore, I am pleased to inform you that I will recommend the support of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u392	Thank you very much for putting forward your position in a timely manner. Now I will ask Mr Krzysztof Truskolas to present my position on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u393	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Modern Club, I'd like to present my position. The current relations between the European Union and Cuba until the signing of the agreement were governed by the common position of 2 December 1996, which made the development of political contacts dependent on respect for human rights and civil liberties in Cuba. The policy of dual-trackity of the European Union has raised opposition from the Cuban authorities from the outset, which opposed the contacts of the Member States of the European Union with dissidents. The Agreement was initialled on 11 March 2016 in Havana in the presence of the High Representative and the Commissioner for International Cooperation and Development and subsequently signed by the European Union and Cuba in Brussels on 12 December 2016. The purpose of the agreement is to consolidate and strengthen the links between the parties. Relations are to be directed towards supporting the modernisation of the Cuban economy and society, bilateral cooperation, in particular in international fora, with a view to strengthening human rights and democracy, as well as combating discrimination and achieving the SDGs. The agreement contains essential elements for the European Union: the human rights clause and the non-proliferation clause, the breach of which may lead to suspension of the agreement. It is the result of a political breakthrough and reflects a significant improvement in relations between Cuba and the Member States of the European Union. It provides a framework for strengthening political cooperation and a platform for developing relations in international fora between Hawaii and Brussels. The agreement also fits perfectly in with the policy of the European Union and the Republic of Poland towards the Latin American and Caribbean region in order to promote political dialogue and extend areas of cooperation. The Agreement is the first bilateral agreement between the European Union and the Member States and Cuba, creating a stable framework for relations between the European Union - Cuba, which replaces the existing ad hoc dialogue, provides a framework and a platform for closer cooperation and dialogue within a wide range of policy areas. By adopting the European Union-Cuba Agreement, which reflects the interests of the parties in strengthening relations, and taking into account the changing regional context, inter alia. The role of Cuba in the Colombian peace process, the breakthrough in Havana's relations with the US, Poland believes that it will contribute to strengthening political dialogue and comprehensive cooperation between the European Union and Cuba, as well as will have a positive impact on the development of bilateral relations between Poland and Hawaii. Poland will also closely monitor the implementation of its provisions by the Cuban side. The issues of respect for human rights and civil liberties should be of particular interest to us. The aim of the agreement is also to promote contacts within the framework of dialogue and cooperation between Cuba's society and the countries of the European Union. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Modern Posel Club will support this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u394	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Sawicki, club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u395	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is also in favour of the adoption and ratification of this agreement between the European Union and Cuba. I just want to draw attention to the fact that, as a Member several years ago, I had the opportunity to be in Cuba within the Interparliamental Union, and to be honest, a beautiful, economically devastated, culturally, I think in some sense Also morally, the country requires great reconstruction. Barack Obama's administration noticed that. It is a pity that, at the moment, the United States is having some sort of cool-down and great scepticism. In my view, Cuba, who was a great communist to Central America before, is no longer that threat today. Today there are no more Russians there, there is no longer a nuclear threat from this country, but I think that Cubans, like 30 years ago Poles, belong to the free world of support and assistance, and to the integration into normal nations wishing to democratically and peacefully develop in the world. So that we fully support this, and at the same time really these processes and these changes under the agreement will require monitoring and I believe that in this the Polish government will be active. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u396	Thank you very much, sir. And the question will be asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u397	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a very short question, because already in 2016 there was a certain relaxation on the Cuba line and the rest of the world and this did not translate into an increase in trade between Poland and Cuba, because in 2016 we saw a decrease in trade turnover with Cuba, which turns out to have been higher in 2015. I have a question: in 2017, when this geopolitical situation really changes and improves in favour of opening up to Cuba, are there any signs of a reversal of this trend regarding the decline in trade with Cuba? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u398	Thank you very much. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Minister Jack Chaputowicz to answer this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u399	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the question, I would like to say at the beginning that Poland belonged to a group of those countries which, within the European Union, stressed the issue of human rights very much - together with Germany, together with the Czech Republic - and this agreement provides, gives instruments for monitoring this issue. As far as bilateral relations are concerned, I would like to say that for Poland this is an important partner in the Latin American region, in the Caribbean region. This year, in May, Minister Witold Waszczykowski paid a visit to Havana, that is, we belong, to those countries that promote cooperation between the European Union and the region. On the other hand, with regard to trade, the decline could have been due to a certain economic situation in the world, but I would like to draw attention to one issue. In fact, Poland mainly exports to Cuba, while very little imports. The exports amount to $48.8 million. All turnover is this much, while exports account for 90%. Cuba takes 12th place as a trading partner in the Latin American region, the first in the Caribbean. I would also like to say, referring to the presence of the PSL club representative, that we mainly export wheat, milk and chicken to Cuba, while we import products such as orange juice and honey. I think, in fact, we are convinced that the adoption of this agreement will stabilise economic relations also between the European Union and Cuba and that the Polish economy will only benefit from this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u400	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Leśniak would also like to take the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u401	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to express my deep satisfaction at the way in which the joint Commissions have worked: on European Union and Foreign Affairs. I would like to thank everyone for the substantive and fruitful law, as well as for their contribution to the drafting of the bill, both in committee and in this Chamber. Thank you very much again and I ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u402	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Infrastructure, the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the Act on collective supply of water and the collective discharge of waste water and certain other laws (prints No. 1905 and 1960). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u403	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Joint Committees: Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry, Infrastructure and Territorial Government and Regional Policy at its meeting today, i.e. On 26 October this year, they considered a government bill amending the Act on collective supply of water and collective discharge of waste water and certain other laws. The project in print 1905 aims primarily at establishing a regulator that controls the performance of collective water supply and waste water disposal tasks effectively. In the current legal state, the approval of tariffs for these services shall be carried out by a resolution of the relevant municipal council. However, since companies providing these services are majorityly or even wholly owned by municipal authorities, there is a clear conflict of interest. In principle, the operator who sets the tariff also approves this tariff, sometimes to the detriment of the citizen. Approval of tariffs by the price regulator established by this Act, i.e. the competent local director of the Regional Water Management Board of the State Water Farm Polskie, will introduce in relations the supplier - the recipient of services a mechanism for objective verification of the basis and indices of price formation. Also the procedure for the regulator's opinion on the rules of procedure for the supply of water and waste water, a document defining the rights and obligations of the parties, i.e. recipients and service providers, it is extremely important to ensure that Poles have access to these services at the appropriate level. Issues governed by the provisions of this Act have often been the subject of parliamentary debates, particularly in the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, as well as the audit and relevant reports and conclusions of the Supreme Audit Chamber, which is calling for a regulator in this area. Such discussions were also accompanied by work on the Water Law adopted on 20 July 2017. The law also regulates the rules, I am talking about the draft law in print 1905, the settlement of disputes between the parties to collective water supply contracts and the collection of waste water. At its meeting today, the Joint Parliamentary Committees worked over the draft law contained in print 1905. Two opposition clubs' requests for a public hearing were previously rejected, with a strong majority: 33 to 18, and 33 to 22. As I say, at today's meeting, the Joint Parliamentary Committees worked over the draft law contained in print 1905, introducing a number of substantive amendments to it, as well as a number of legislative and linguistic comments submitted by the Legislative Office. The report of the Joint Committees is contained in print No 1960. I move on to a brief presentation, because of course there is no time for a detailed presentation of the project. As regards the reading of the report in print 1960, I think that each of you has already read it. Art. 1 contains amendments to the Act on collective water supply and collective waste water discharge. Change 1. modifies the substantive scope of the Act, among others. the procedure for the approval of tariffs and the regulatory authority and its tasks. Amendment 4, in turn, concerning Article. The 19th Collective Supply Act contains a detailed definition of the procedure for drawing up, including the opinion of the regulatory authority, the rules for the supply of water and the discharge of waste water. Amendment 5 introduces a three-year tariff period for the services in question, but under certain conditions this period may be reduced. Amendment 8 introduces new articles, in turn, from Article. 24b to Art. 24j, concerning the approval of the tariff, specifying: the time limits for submission and processing of the application, the content of the application, the scope of the information provided by the undertaking, the obligations of the regulator, the method of verifying the application by the regulator, the possibility of requiring the submission of the revised draft tariff or justification, the conditions for setting the provisional tariff, the fees for issuing the decision by the regulator, the way in which the tariff is published, etc. Amendment 9 in turn gives rise to a regulation setting out the model for the tariff application. Amendment 10 introduces provisions concerning the regulator, local property, scope of competence, mode of action. The new chapter 5b contains, in turn, provisions on the settlement of disputes between water and sewage undertakings and recipients of services. In disputes concerning the refusal to conclude a contract or to cut off a supply, or the closure of a sewage connection, the regulatory authority may decide by decision. Art. 2 of the draft amends the Civil Procedure Code Act. Art. 3, I would remind you that it is the result of amendment 2b, introduces amendments to the Law on Government Administrations, which results in the assignment of collective water supply and waste water disposal cases to the Government Administration Department: Water Management. Therefore, all the adjectives of the opposition formulated at first reading and during the debate in the committee, that the law was first led by the Minister of Infrastructure and now led by the Minister responsible for water management, are devoid of grounds, meaningless. I remind you, gentlemen, that the provisions of the new Water Law are entering into force. The provisions of the Collective Supply Act should be consistent with the Water Law passed on 20 July. Art. 4 in the committee's report refers to the law on judicial costs in civil matters. Art. 5 amends the Law of 20 July 2017. Water law by modifying the provisions of Article. 240 and Article 240 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2013 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 490, i.e. the transitional law, in order to ensure consistency of water law provisions with the provisions of the project under consideration. Art. 6 and subsequent articles contain transitional provisions. Among other things, new rules will apply to proceedings initiated before the date of entry into force of the Act. This provision clearly works for the benefit of citizens whose rights in the new wording of the Act on collective water supply and collective waste water discharge will be better protected. This is the main point for which these regulations have been shaped in this way. The new rules for the supply of water and waste water will have to be drawn up and presented within 6 months of the entry into force of the Act. The current tariffs shall remain in force for 180 days from the date of entry into force of this Law. In turn, the revision of the fee rate or the valorisation of the decision fee by the regulator referred to in Article. 24d paragraph. The 3rd Collective Supply Act will be available for the first time in 2019. By 31 December 2017, the tasks of the regulatory authority will be carried out by the President of the National Water Management Board and revenue from the relevant fees will constitute revenue of the state budget. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, in short, the provisions contained in the final part of the bill can be summarised. The project as a whole was adopted by the joint committees with 34 votes against and no abstentions. The joint committees shall also submit a minority request to the applicant at the request of the applicant, namely that in Article. 1, i.e. amending the collective supply law, as amended by Article 4. Paragraph 19 shall be deleted. 1 and 2. High Izbo! On behalf of the Joint Commission: Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, Infrastructure and the Territorial Government and Regional Policy, please adopt the draft contained in the report of the Joint Committee on Printing No 1960. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u404	Thank you for presenting the report. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I ask Mr Richard Bartosik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u405	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the Act amending the Act on collective supply of water and collective discharge of waste water and certain other laws, prints No. 1905 and 1960. The draft law amending the Act on collective water supply and collection of waste water and certain other laws aims to eliminate the problems associated with the functioning of the market for collective water supply and waste water disposal services. The current arrangements provided for in the Act do not sufficiently protect the recipients of services from systematic price increases. In this legal state, the local government also serves as the owner of a water and sewage company, a market regulator, as well as a representative of the recipients of services. Such a solution generates a conflict of interest to the detriment of end-users. High Izbo! In order to counter the above. problems and safeguards of the interest of service recipients are envisaged to set up a supervisory authority for the implementation of collective water supply and waste water disposal tasks. The proposed law provides that certain powers in the area of collective water supply and waste water disposal, which are currently owned by the Commune Council, will be delegated to regional directors and additional powers, in particular: the opinion of the draft rules for the supply of water and the discharge of waste water prepared by the Commune Council, the approval of tariffs, the settlement of disputes between supply undertakings and recipients, the imposition of fines under the rules laid down in the Act, the collection and processing of information concerning water supply and reception undertakings, and in particular the calculation and publication of average prices for water supply and reception of waste water, as well as the drawing up and publication of reports on the conditions for the operation of collective water supply and collection of waste water. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the introduction of a law amending the Act on collective water supply and collective waste water discharge, but we are proposing four amendments. On behalf of the club, I submit these amendments to your marshal. At the same time, I would like to refer to Amendment 4, and this amendment concerns Article. 14, i.e. the provision on the entry into force of the Act 14 days after the announcement, and reservations: except for Article. Point 8 of Article 1 24c paragraph. 1 point (1) (a) b. This reference concerns the principle arising from the Law on the Publication of Normative Acts and Certain Legislative Acts. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I am handing over four amendments to this bill to your marshal. We propose that the Sejm adopt this law with amendments tabled by us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u406	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of Krystyna Sibinska, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u407	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In one newspaper, the changes proposed by the PiS government were called a silent tsunami. After today's work, I think we can call it a little bit harder, because it's definitely not a quiet tsunami. The way this project is being processed is an insult to all decency. In fact, it is not known which project was consulted. Certainly not the one who entered the Sejm. The results of these consultations are not known to the Members. They were not included in the complex project. We wanted everyone to know what it would be like to create new water tariffs in Poland, so we applied for a public hearing. Unfortunately, this motion has been voted on. It's hard to wonder, those are the bills - the PiS has the majority. This is not the way to work on the bill. It is already a norm that there is no consultation, that Members are restricted to saying that the social side is not allowed to lie about it. For example, Minister Gajda said in his statement that the Chamber of Commerce of Polish Waterworks was not interested in working on these new regulations. This is an obvious lie because we have received a package of different comments. They could be applied. Why are we introducing these rules so quickly? After all, nobody is really prepared for this, also the Polish Waters, which I will remind you, will start functioning only from 1 January. A regulator is introduced which should be external, specialised and independent. In fact, none of these conditions are met. Because what can be said about the employees of the Regional Water Management Directorates? They were appointed, worked and worked to manage Polish Waters. None of them have the authority, they're not prepared to oversee the company economically. However, in the case of tariffs, it is also about taking into account the conditions under which companies work. We know that the Minister of Finance said that there is no money for additional employees either in the Ministry of Environment, in the Polish Waters or in the RZGW. Who, then, will be the opinion of these regulations? Who's gonna approve the tariffs? And who will determine, if necessary, temporary tariffs? They must be professionals, and they just don't exist, and they don't have any money on them either. And if they do, it will mean additional costs that will be reflected on tariffs, for which the inhabitants of our municipalities, cities, towns will have to pay. It is impossible, Minister, to centrally determine water prices and waste water prices throughout Poland, because each municipality has a different specificity, each water supply company has a different specificity. Some of them carried out EU projects. What about these EU projects? They have a certain rate of progression in terms of tariffs. Who will be responsible for the possibility that these companies or municipalities will be affected by failure to comply with the terms of the agreements? This project cannot be improved. We do not believe that any amendment can pass. That is why we do not make any amendments, but a proposal to reject this project at second reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u408	Thank you, Member. I ask Mr Szramka to speak on behalf of the Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u409	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a weird project. The applicants have in no way convinced me to vote in favour. Here many stronger arguments have been made in the statements of my previous speaker, who has outlined very well several flaws of this project. It's a completely incomprehensible act. It seems to us that this will not improve in any way, and it will even confuse the situation. In addition, you take the powers of the local authorities, but you leave the responsibility. Too bad you don't listen to any opposition arguments, you don't consider them at all. Yeah, well, I guess it's a shame to talk. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u410	Mr Marek Owa, Modern Club. And thank you, Mr Paul Szramka, for speaking on behalf of the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u411	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I present the club's position in relation to the report of the joint committees on the government bill amending the Act on collective water supply and collective waste water discharge and some other laws. First of all, I would like to refer to the procedure in a few words. I must say that the position of the Marshal of the Sejm setting today as a date for the submission of the report of the joint committees is not justified. The government bill sent to the Sejm had no annotation that it was an urgent project, therefore there was no need to proceed so quickly. Few of this, during the inter-ministerial arrangements, some ministers explicitly suggested that this project should come in later, exactly on 1 July 2018. Another issue that raises my doubts, and probably not just my doubts, is the whole legislative process. There has been a lot of controversy around these issues. If you see, you will follow the path, all the documents, the person who should really be interested in this project is Minister Kaminski, who presented the bill on the transparency of public life a few days ago. It should start with the fact that the process of drafting this law should also be public, so that not only parliamentarians, but also the social side, have the opportunity to look into this document, including how this process was carried out in its entirety. The project adopted by the Council of Ministers is quite different from the project which was sent for consultation and inter-ministerial arrangements. There's no public consultation report anywhere. It is not enough, I would add, that the deadline for the submission of comments for part of the organisation has passed only a few days ago, i.e. 10 days after the deadline for adoption by the Council of Ministers. The law, on which the Ministry of Finance submitted serious comments, was not assessed by the joint committee of government and local government; it was adopted in practically no way, I will say more, not even to the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers. What government documents, what government projects are to be sent to the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers like the one that affects everyone, concerns every citizen, the whole economy? It's obviously a key project. Another point I'd like to say is the access of the social side. Today's behavior, I must say, Mr. Rozonca, was awful. Shame, Mr. Rozonec, to behave like this, to hold a committee meeting. I'm skipping the aspect... It is always possible to exercise the right of the majority, not to accept requests for public hearing, but to prevent the social side from having a general debate, so that those persons, those representatives, who did not have the right to express themselves earlier... Because it was not addressed to the joint committee before, during the process by the government of this law. There is no opinion of the Joint Government and Government Committee. Then why didn't these people, these representatives, have the right to speak at the committee meeting? Limiting Members' speeches, including in no way, only to complete the work on this document as soon as possible. If that was the plan - the forceful force of this law - then it was necessary to proceed to second reading immediately, just as you did 3 months ago with the Supreme Court Act. On behalf of the Poselski Club I am making a proposal to reject the draft law, and if this proposal is not taken into account, I also make nine amendments which, in our view, will reduce the negative effects of the provisions of the Government's submission. These amendments, which we make, concern the issue of the term of the tariff - we want this term to be up to 3 years and not for rigidly 3 years, possibly a period of 2 years - and the question of the rules mentioned here. This is a completely unnecessary record in this bill. The biasing of Polish Vodka by agreeing, the opinion of the regulations is absolutely unnecessary. Two and a half thousand. municipalities. After all, it will be in the municipalities that decide what the rights are, what is the burden on water suppliers, on the recipient of waste water and on the rights of the resident. If you are convinced that you know better on these 11 regional boards [[♪ The bell ♪]] I want to tell you that no, they don't. They still don't know what's gonna happen to them on January 1. The organization of Polish Waters is in its infancy, Minister. The truth is, you don't have a budget for this unit next year, people don't know what's going to happen to them, and there's no staff to approve tariffs at all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u412	Thank you, thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u413	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we are back to the debate on the government bill amending the Act on collective supply of water, prints No. 1905 and 1960. In yesterday's debate, the Minister, as an applicant and rapporteur - just as the rapporteur today - convinced us that we should take these measures. It's normal, but is it normal that in this mode we solve such important problems? For applicants and parts of parliament, this may seem normal, probably not for some, and for the social side, for local governments that do not lose their responsibilities, they will not be rid of the financial burden associated with the operation of these devices, that is quite incomprehensible. For, according to the applicants, will the appointment of a regulator cure the whole situation that the Minister referred to, referring to the quotations from the Supreme Audit Chamber report, where - and yesterday in the statements - the competence and level of preparation of councillors in local governments for their duties and activities was assessed? These councillors have been elected by the sovereign, these councillors have a mandate. What, here in the House, in the Seym, is everyone so super-prepared for their duties again? Such are the Members, such are the Councillors who have been chosen. Today, the rapporteur told us with triumph that requests for a public hearing had been rejected by a large majority. Well, that's the mathematical layout. If there were five of these committees and not three of them, that difference would be even bigger. I'm gonna keep saying what I said yesterday. We're skipping the local government. There is no joint committee position, no public debate. In fact, we don't know which project was evaluated, whether the one on September 22 or the other one. The comments sent by the Polish Chamber of Commerce to the first project were not taken into account at all. How do we want to help these self-governments? By stating that we care about the citizen, the citizen? What are we trying to do to help him like that? And who's gonna pay for it? Who will compensate for the losses if it turns out that the agreed tariffs did not take into account the investment, and after a year, 2 or 3 years will prove to have to be added to water supply and waste water collection? Average prices fixed for voivodship or district will not fulfil the role, because other will be price, financial relations, costs and income in urban clusters, in cities, and others will be in villages where the network is long, farms are scattered and costs are completely different. Who will provide further investments? Who's gonna find the money for them? Or he can do something else: I don't know, the government, the Treasury will take over, buy out these installations from local governments - values are known because the expenditures have been in recent years - and then he will manage. Maybe, in quotes, it will be better that way, maybe then we can show how we can from Warsaw, from Kielce, from Lublin, from Olsztyn to direct and heal, and indicate how to live, how much to pay, how much to consume water. We cannot support the work on finalising [[♪ The bell ♪]] this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u414	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you like to join the list of people who want to ask a question at this point? I can't hear you, which is why I'm closing the list. Question time - 1 minute. And Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club begins. You're welcome. [[One minute is very little.]] Madam President, it has not yet happened that I have spoken to you, and you are already complaining. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u415	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! This bill and its procedure are an absolute denial of good legislation, the creation of good law - without public consultation, excluding the local authorities directly concerned, on the knee, without vacatio legis, but only quickly. The interference of the regulator in the powers of local authorities with regard to their own tasks is incompatible with the Constitution. There is no doubt that it is the centralization of powers, the submission of independent governments of the governing party. It is expected that the draft rules for water supply and waste water discharge require the opinion of the regulator, i.e. the Polish Water Company. Is that an opinion or a decision? And to what extent is it binding on the council of the municipality when adopting its rules of procedure? Next question: Who will be responsible for fixing tariffs by the Polish Water Company? I mean, this company isn't here yet. [[♪ The bell ♪]] is not prepared to give an opinion on tariffs. If there are negative effects of these tariffs, who will cover their costs? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u416	Thank you. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u417	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm going to continue with the same topic because he's the main, biggest critic in this room. The way in which this law is dealt with is particularly clearly illustrated by the PiS legislative model. First of all, PiS doesn't listen to citizens. Not only citizens, but also Members. He doesn't have to listen, because he simply doesn't allow them to speak, nor does he allow them to be consulted, but he also has illegal speeches, limiting them even at committee meetings, where it is customary to discuss during the procedure. PiS lies cynically and impudently, and every step of the way - examples were given by my previous speakers. And I don't even know how the rapporteur's enthusiastic melodrama simply doesn't make a lie out of the truth. PiS creates law inefficiently and incompetently. He's making his own adjustments today. We know from experience that other amendments... Because you can't even create tools for yourselves. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And revolutionary enthusiasm makes you want to take everything to the PiS... [[Time's up, and you haven't asked a question.]] ...forgetting that the revolution devours its own children first. You've had such a coincidence in your own history that it was your CBA boss who locked your man in the spotlight. Here I refer to the words and warnings of the PSL Member. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[But the question wasn't.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u418	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club. I don't see a Member. In this connection, Mr Marek Sowa, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u419	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a few questions for the Minister. Minister, first of all, I would like to ask you where you are going to get funding to finance jobs, maintain jobs and pay for 110 people to be employed, 10 on each regional water management board, not including, of course, those to be employed in the Ministry of the Environment. Has the recruitment of these people started yet? Because, as I understand it, to accept it by January 1st, you should start the recruitment a little earlier. That's another line. I have a question for you right now, and I'm not asking what you think about it. Can Members receive the Protocol of the Standing Committee of the Council of Ministers on when this document was adopted and, I think, when all these profound changes were made when the project was turned upside down? Can we also receive the minutes of the Council of Ministers so that we can also read the discussion? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because I don't believe that there are negative positions of individual ministries during interministerial arrangements, and then silence, no one gets anything. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u420	Thank you, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u421	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! What's the rush to proceed with this bill? What's your hurry? Couldn't you do a proper consultation, a longer vacathio legis, to get ready for this project? Isn't it just that you thought that if it came into force in the middle of next year, you couldn't really figure it out before the municipal elections, and so you always have an extra instrument to make things better when it comes to your election results? Because what guarantees do we have that this will simply not be an instrument that serves to make water cheaper where the PiS rules, and where the opposition rules more expensive? You have an instrument that allows you to do this. And then what? You will go to society and say: Look, PiS rules elegantly, cheap water, cheap sewage, etc., and here Platform or PSL unfortunately cannot manage resources. What guarantee do we have that this is not an instrument that will be used for political action? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Fantasmagoria.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u422	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Club Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u423	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You claim that there are problems with the inadequate functioning of the market for water supply and collective waste water disposal services. Give me an argument on what these problems are. You want the regulator to ensure verification and approve tariffs for collective water supply and waste water discharge for their legality. In addition, the water and sewage company will set a tariff for a period of 3 years. Why are you interfering with the financial stability of water and sewage companies? The economic risks of water and sewage companies are affected. The regulator will not assume any responsibility by taking decisions of high economic importance and having a significant impact on the residents. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The units of the local government are perfectly capable of supplying the inhabitants with water and waste water, so it is really your futile effort to further centralize our country. Mrs Paluch, you have a beautiful smile, but I do not know if it is worth laughing at this moment. Why was there no public consultation or public hearing? It's very funny, isn't it? What's the rush to proceed with this bill? [[Applause]] Lady, laugh more. Stop spoiling what's good. Shame on you, shame on you! That smile is shocking. [[Time's up.]] It's shocking. [[Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u424	Mr Richard Galla, not associated. Here's another question, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u425	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today, during the day, I received several calls from the mayors of my constituency with such a disturbing question: Is it true that at this session of the Sejm we will still adopt a draft amendment to the Act on collective water supply and collective sewage disposal? I had to say with regret that this would probably be the case, although I did not believe it for a long time personally, I thought that there would be honesty, especially on the part of the Minister, so that we would be able to proceed calmly on this project. Turns out it's not. I would therefore like to ask, Minister, what really is the reason that we have such acceleration, and in addition this bill will not have vacathio legis yet? Please feel in the role of local governments and companies responsible for the correct determination of the price of water. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the basis of what do they calculate this tariff for the next three years? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u426	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Golińska, club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u427	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Any practically my meeting in the district: in the Thundering, in the municipality of White Bór, in Borne Sulinów, in Barwice - I could mention it further - it starts with a question about whether we will help and create a water price regulator, an external regulator. There people struggle with very high rates of water and sewage charges, and actually over the last few years they have heard that it is impossible. Maybe that's why I'm looking at this project a little differently. I look at him with hope, although I am aware that there is a great deal of responsibility on the part of the workers who will function within this regulator and also take on the great responsibility associated with the hope of these residents, Minister, who are looking for help. I have a question because companies [[♪ The bell ♪]] they also include depreciation in the case of measures for which loans, grants or Union funds have previously been granted, and should not add such depreciation to the costs according to the judgment of the NSA. Is it possible for the new proposed law to include the judgment of the court in the regulation? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u428	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski from the Law and Justice Club submitted a question in writing, so it will be forwarded to the ministers. [[It was written by the Minister of Construction.]] [[That's why I'm asking the minister.]] Mr... And now I ask you to ask Mrs Krystyna Skowronska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u429	Thanks to the marshal because there was a meeting of the Public Finance Committee. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, The first question: Can we divide the regulator's action in this way - let me remind you that this regulator is an additional cost, maybe not in the local government, but in the budget, certainly the costs associated with the regulator will be - in order for projects implemented with European funds to be able to talk about the sustainability of the project and the share of own resources? In this respect, therefore, this cost should be added up. So what if the regulator lowers the fixed rate? I think the discussion in the local government about this is very long and turbulent. What if he had reduced the calculated rate and for this reason [[♪ The bell ♪]] would the self-government suffer a loss of economic activity in terms of water supply and waste water collection? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u430	Thank you very much. With this question, we have exhausted the list of people who have signed up for the question at this point. So I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment of Mr Mariusz Gajda for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u431	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, my general reflection. I have the impression that Members of the opposition do not want people to have cheap and good water and to have as cheap waste water as possible. [[Do you drive around Poland?]] Mr Owl at today's committee meeting said that the price of water 10 PLN is not shocking... [[Water and sewage.]] ...well, it's water and sewage, but it's not shocking, while the NIK report says otherwise. I would like to say that, in fact, this draft law was also created on the initiative of the Supreme Audit Chamber, and this is the 2015 report. And let me remind you that Mr Krzysztof Kwiatkowski is the President of the Supreme Audit Iza. It's hard to accuse him of any partiality. There are a number of proposals in this area, including, for example, the establishment of an external market regulator function at central or regional level, whose tasks would be, for example, Econometric analysis based on data obtained from water and sewage undertakings. It would aim to set multiannual tariff limits in the regional agreement, taking into account the categorisation of municipalities. There are many other recommendations here, I won't read it, you can always check it out. I would like to address in more detail both the questions of your Members and the club positions. [[Correct, Marshal.]] And so I would like to say that Mrs Sibińska is wrong, saying that it would be centrally controlled. There won't be a single fare. Each municipality will have a different tariff. I also wanted to say that... You're accusing me of lying. I didn't say that we weren't interested or wanted to talk to the Chamber of Commerce, only that we talked to this Chamber and that what we could have done in the first phase of the project we took into account. I also wanted to say that yes, opinions... Any opinion can be agreed or disagreed with. If someone sends opinions, comments to the project, it doesn't mean that everything needs to be taken into account. I am surprised that the Member has not tabled those amendments which the Chamber of Commerce tried to submit in the second part of the session of the Joint Committees. The President proposed that this be addressed to one of the Members. It is simply that the Member was not on the second part, and that is probably why you have not submitted it. [[I'm not going to legitimize this kind of work.]] Mr Marek Owa... [[And the Minister would take that?]] As usual, we would start to consider if there were amendments. Just like the Water Law. Let me remind you that there have been amendments... [[They'll be in the Senate.]] ... The Chamber of Commerce and some of these amendments were accepted. But if these amendments are not, it is difficult to accept these amendments. [[We're counting on it.]] This is a discussion that is currently unobtrusive. Mr Marek Owa speaks about the procedure of proceding, both in the first statement and in the second statement, he requests from me the minutes of the permanent committee, the minutes of the Council of Ministers meetings. I'm not a host, it's up to the Council of Ministers to file your application there. Minutes of the Council of Ministers meetings, as far as I know, maybe not immediately, but are published on the website - it is about accepting certain things. But he doesn't know what was going on, and he knows what the finance minister's remarks were, and that's a weird thing. Just as the Member knows where he said what he said. [[Were they?]] If they were... Ladies and gentlemen, always, you know perfectly well... You are not the first time in the Sejm or in politics at all, and you know very well that during legislative work there are always a lot of amendments to the various ministries and the permanent committee decides which of these amendments are to be adopted by the Council of Ministers, which amendments are not to be accepted. Now I will refer to the Commission of the Joint Government and the Territorial Government, and also to what you are saying, Mrs Sibińska, Mr Owl - which is the version. It's one and the same version, but it's changed. During the work of the Council of Ministers, the form of the bill has changed because part of the amendments of the various ministries have been taken into account. This draft law was sent to the Commission of the Joint Government and the Territorial Self-Government on 22 September 2017 and, following the changes which were introduced at the Council of Ministers, the committee was informed of this fact. Nevertheless, she has not taken a position, and now she says that it has not been reported. At the last meeting of the Joint Government and Local Government Commission, which took place yesterday - I am a member, but because I was here, I could not participate - the local government said that she would not deal with this project, that she would ask Members of the opposition to reject it and, if this law were adopted, she would report it to the Constitutional Court. Mr Kotowski said that councillors are not professionals. He's right, councillors don't have to be professionals, which is why he's calling this regulator to see if these tariffs are drawn up properly. Here, too, there are a number of different types of mechanisms, which are indicated by the Supreme Audit Chamber. There are unintended cases, cases of lack of knowledge of regulations, perhaps lack of knowledge of accounting, control. These are certainly unintended cases, but there are also many pre-intended cases, such as integration into the costs of road reconstruction or financing from profits of various types of events, dividends. The profits of the companies which were examined in 2013 and 2014 amounted to almost PLN 250 million, of which 35 600 000 were allocated to dividends. zł, i.e. 11.7%. A certain amount was also supported by the Sports Development Foundation. There's a lot of stuff like that. The purpose of this law is to check whether these tariffs are properly calculated and whether they are reliable. I would like to say to you that there is nothing to fear from the municipality which will draw up the tariff proposal honestly and honestly. I suppose there's a majority of them, but not all of them. There was also a question about this matter of the Rules of Procedure, for an opinion. That, of course, is an opinion. Because it is an opinion, Mr Owl has tabled an amendment so that it does not exist at all. The opinion may not be taken into account, but the opinion gives some indication as to whether the rules are legal, whether they are good for users, also for the Water and Sewerage Company, because this is what Mrs Zofia Czernow asked. And now it's next. Mrs Czernow's question is that this is an interference incompatible with the Constitution. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it is in line with the constitution, which is why this regulation will be assessed and not agreed because the agreement would be an interference in the powers of the local government, and the approval of the tariff is not an interference. I would like to stress once again that everyone should understand this well, because perhaps they do not understand it well. The regulator will not calculate and impose tariffs. The regulator will only control these tariffs. This remains within the competence of the municipality. Everything's going to be the way it's going to be. The regulator will only check whether these calculations are reliable, whether they reflect the actual costs of water and sewage undertakings, all costs ranging from the costs of water resources, energy costs, local taxes, general taxes, employment, energy, etc., to investments, future investments. And here, too, there will be a mechanism whereby a certain profit margin will be established, which will then be verified whether this profit margin was actually realised in an excessive manner or not. This is also one of the conclusions of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Who will cover the financial consequences of this bill? Not self-government. Self-governments outside an administrative fee of PLN 500 for the approval of the tariff will not bear any additional costs. It must be made clear here that the task of this law is not to finance Polish Waters. This law is aimed at the well-being of citizens, Poles and Poles, so that there is no excessive increase in water costs, which are already high, often at the border, can be said, the financial possibilities of citizens. Law and Justice listen to citizens, Mrs Lenartowicz. It is precisely because he listens to these citizens that he introduces this law. There is no Mrs Lenartowicz at the moment, but Mrs Lenartowicz knows very well that there are some calculations that can be good and legal or bad. Mr Marek Sowa asked where the money for employment came from. Well, Polish waters take on the role of the regulator of water prices. We'll be conducting training soon. For training we have ordered consultants from the World Bank, so that we can say that at world level there will be these trainings. It will be objective training. Mr Meysztowicz, this really is not a political instrument. What is the political purpose of such a regulator? The goal is not to increase people's prices for water and sewage in an unjustified way. Why, for three years, you ask Margaret Navel. Well, for three years, that's why... One of the conclusions of the Supreme Audit Chamber is that tariffs should be stable and municipalities should be able to predict their costs. But I wanted to say that in a legitimate case this tariff can be changed within 3 years. That's what Art says. 24j, Mr Kotowski asked that too. This is an exceptional procedure that, if costs or investments are justified, this tariff could of course be changed if this were to result, for example. to the bankruptcy of a water and sewage company. Now, at the same time, I would like to comment on the voices of Mrs Golińska and Mrs Skowrońska. The fact is that water and sewage companies benefit from grants, whether from European grants, whether from national grants of the fund, environmental funds. [[It's not a donation.]] I believe, and that is also the conclusion and judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court, that these costs should not be amortized. [[And what about Minister Smolinski...]] Why... Sorry, it is my opinion that they should not be amortized, because, as you know perfectly well, you are very fluent in accounting matters, if this subsidy were taxed as a donation, then at this point a subsidy could be depreciated, but if it is an EU subsidy which is not charged with income tax, this amount should not be depreciated and, of course, the costs associated with the operation of these equipment should be added to the tariff. Because it's normal that it has to be a shelf life and it has to be calculated as reasonable costs. [[Corrigendum.]] Indeed, there is also one of these mechanisms that the Supreme Audit Chamber points out. Imagine that if the municipality receives a grant, e.g. 10 million PLN, and these are generally even higher subsidies, at this point according to the depreciation classification some percentage is at the expense of business. And if it's a grant, it shouldn't be at that expense. And so, and so it always increases, even from subsidies, the cost of operations, because new operating costs are being incurred, as well as the local tax on buildings and equipment. And here I have some advice for the municipality: if the municipality wants to reduce the cost of water, then maybe this tax, it does not necessarily have to be 2%, to reduce it. So it's kind of like a self-winding mechanism. In conclusion, I would like to say, once again, that I have the impression that, on the one hand, Members of the opposition do not want the price of water to increase, and on the other hand, perhaps they say in such a way that they will then blame the government, that if this law were not, it is clear that the price of water would increase, and then there would be a charge that the price of water would have increased. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u432	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee, Ms Anna Paluch. [[Your marshal, correct.]] [[Can you make it right?]] I have seen, Madame, that you have come to an adjustment. Sit down, I'll announce the decision. And now Mrs Anna Paluch. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u433	Thank you. High Izbo! There were conclusions and comments in the club debate that I would like to address. It is a little disappointing that the biggest opposition club managed only on request to reject the project at second reading, when, in colloquially speaking, the Chamber of Commerce prepared for you a prepared cook, which you did not benefit from. Now, with regard to the comments made by the Kukiz club15, it is not true that we are taking competence from local governments. I said, when presenting the bill, that because in most cases companies providing services in this area are either in the majority arrangement, or they are 100% the property of municipal authorities is an obvious conflict of interest to which a regulator is required so that, to the detriment of citizens, prices are not unduly overestimated. We don't take any powers from local governments. As regards the comments on the unnecessary rules, once again with all responsibility it must be said that this is the protection of the rights of recipients of services. As for the doubts expressed by your Member, the representative of PSL, what will happen if we have to add to the waste water - Mr President, the possibility of subsidies from the municipality is preserved. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 24 Act on collective supply of paragraph. 6 stays, as is the case with amendment 6 in Article. 1. Nobody's stopping anybody from making these payments. As regards the comments relating to the procedure, I remind you - the Minister spoke about government issues, so I will not repeat this - that on 11 October the project was directed to first reading and the first reading took place after 14 days, namely yesterday. What's extraordinary here, I really don't know. As regards Mr Galla's doubts that the law will not have a vacathio legis, I would remind you, Mr Gala, that in the club debate, a representative of the club Law and Justice informed about an amendment that will certainly be adopted by the majority of the parliament and is going to introduce a 14-day vacathio legis. This vacathio legis will, don't worry, you must take it easy. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by thanking the Minister and colleagues of the Minister, the Legislative Office and the representatives of the clubs who spoke in the debate. However, I hope that one day we will achieve that the debate will simply be substantive, emotionless and conducted in the care of quality standards of services used by Poles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u434	Thank you, Member. Two Members have tabled a corrigendum: Mr Marek Sowa and Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska. And in that order, I invite you. Time - 1 minute. Please observe this time. [[That's not how we volunteered.]] No, Mr Marek Owa was the first to come forward.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u435	Mrs. Marshal! The Minister has referred to me many times and there should be more corrections. Minister, I pay almost PLN 15 in my community. I'm not the lucky guy who could pay 10 zlotys for 1 m3. I draw my knowledge from the report, which was unfortunately prepared not by the Ministry of the Environment, about the amount of the fees. Only in four voivodships the average is less than 10 PLN, and the cheapest water in voivodship cities is in Białystok. That's where Mr. Truskolas is president. That's where I get my knowledge. If you look, you'll notice that there's no way, especially where there's new infrastructure, to go down below. And as for your final statement, I must say, as to what you are saying, there was no need to change the bill. The August Regulation should have been amended. Signed by Minister Smolinski, who has committed all entities, water and sewage companies, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to include 100% for depreciation of all inputs. And I agree with you. If you have to rebuild the road after building a sewer, you can't deduct depreciation, it's obvious. It's gonna be expensive, not a channel, it's obvious to me. But you didn't have to put that stupidity in the regulation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u436	Thank you, sir. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u437	Dear Marshal! Continuing with Mr Mark Owa's statement on the depreciation of investments with the participation of European funds, I would ask, however, that you resolve this in the Ministry of Infrastructure, because the regulation that Minister Smolinski signed is a completely different interpretation of the provisions, as you mentioned here. And the one that was referred to in the judgment of the provincial administrative court is different. So in this case, we really want to do this. This discussion is fair and factual, even though the rapporteur is trying to discredit it by talking about the way in which this debate is conducted. We'll stick to our arguments. However, in this case, we ask the Minister to agree with Minister Smolinski on how to calculate. And there was no need for administrative judgments in this case. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It will then be known, and this will also be the interpretation that the European funds used in case of poor depreciation of investments will not be reimbursed due to the sustainability of the project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u438	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u439	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The genesis of the amendment of the Act on collective supply of water and collection of waste water and certain other laws, print No. 1866, is the possibility of conflict of interest between local government, water and sewage company and water recipient in the current legal state. It is therefore important to put in place effective regulatory mechanisms for establishing prices and charges. Therefore, an independent, specialised regulatory body will be set up, giving an opinion on the rules governing the supply of water and the discharge of waste water and approving tariffs. The current system allows unjustified price increases. New solutions are designed to prevent this. This governing body will be the director of the Regional Water Management Board of the State Water Farm of Poland. Fares will be made not every year, but every three years. I think that the municipalities will be relieved to accept such solutions, because so far, the odium of price increases and tariffs has been falling on the councillors. My question: Are not future plans for similar solutions for the garbage economy, where similar relationships, conflicts of interest and problems can be seen?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u440	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Infrastructure, the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the government draft law on tourism events and related tourism services. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism on the Government's draft Act on Tourism Events and Related Tourism Services (Prints No. 1784 and 1956). I ask Mr Grzegorz Janik to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u441	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism on the Government's draft Act on Tourism Events and Related Tourism Services, print No. 1784. Sejm at its 47th meeting on 12 September 2017 pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism for consideration. The Commission has set up a subcommittee to work on a draft law. The subcommittee has met four times. Members, representatives of the Ministry of Sport and Tourism and representatives of the tourism industry participated in the meetings of the committee. The Commission for Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism considered the above draft law at its meetings on 14 September and 26 October 2017. Legislative amendments and seven substantive amendments were tabled during the committee's work. Four amendments were rejected and three were positive. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I move that the draft law contained in the committee's report be adopted in print 1956. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u442	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask once again Mr Grzegorz Janik, this time on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u443	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government draft law on tourist events and related tourist services, print No. 1956. High Izbo! Tourism plays a very important role in the economy of all countries of the European Union, in Poland it is almost 6% GDP is 17 million tourists visiting our country. The tourism market is changing rapidly, new distribution channels are emerging. Therefore, in order to ensure the certainty of tourism services in the event of their failure, we are introducing Directive 2015/2302 of the European Parliament and of the Council on tourism events and related tourism services. The above draft law pursues two main objectives. The first objective is to transpose Directive 2015/2302 into legal order, and the second objective is to improve existing legal solutions, in particular as regards protecting travellers from the consequences of the insolvency of tourism organisers. The organizer or tourist agent prior to conclusion of the contract shall be obliged to provide the traveller with the following information: location, route, duration, type, class, category of means of transport, location, category, type of accommodation, number and type of meals, detailed programme of sightseeing, excursions, price of the tourist event including tax, information on compulsory insurances. Any changes to the contract must be presented in a clear and comprehensible manner to the consumer. It also introduces exemptions from the law according to two essential criteria. Firstly, it is a criterion of duration and accommodation. Events less than 24 hours are excluded unless they include accommodation. Secondly, it's about the nature of the journey. The Act does not apply to occasional, non-profit-making trips and offers only to a limited group of travellers. Of course, business travel is also excluded. The Law and Justice Club has tabled three amendments to this law. The first shall apply to the paragraph. 17. It is about identifying a bank account or an account in a cooperative savings bank. We are extending this provision so that payments can be made not only to the bank account but also to the savings bank. The second amendment concerns § 47, which was very heatedly discussed, so I will quote it: a consumer who has entered into an agreement to participate in a tourist event outside the premises of an undertaking within the meaning of Article. Point 2 of the Consumer Rights Act of 30 May 2014 may, within 14 days of its conclusion, withdraw from it without giving reasons and bearing the costs, unless oral negotiations on the basis of which the contract was concluded have been conducted on the basis of an earlier contract submitted by the consumer. We care about business interests here, but we also care about travelers' interests. The third amendment concerns Article. 62 (2) (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) b. The provision shall be replaced by the following: In the case of the holiday organiser referred to in Article. 92c paragraph. 1 point 3, a statement by the holiday organiser that he organises a holiday for a reasonably non-profit-making or profitable purpose shall not be required to be entered in the register of tourism organisers and traders facilitating the acquisition of the related tourist services referred to in Article. 22 Act on tourist events and related tourist services. High Izbo! In view of all these regulations, with a view to the safety and satisfaction of our tourists and the development of tour operators, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the draft print law No 1956 submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u444	Thank you very much. I would ask Mr Tomasz Kucharski to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u445	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I am pleased to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club vis-à-vis the government's draft law on tourism events and related tourist services, print No. 1956. The importance of the bill and the time of its announcement have actually been determined very strongly in recent times by the work of the subcommittee and later by the committee. The implementation of the provisions of the EU directive adopted by the Ministry has resulted in a lot of unclear provisions today. I will only mention here some of them: the occasional group, the limited group, which is not a significant part of it. These are very smooth terms, which give the possibility of a very broad interpretation of these records, even during subsequent inspections not carried out by the Ministry, but by the Marshal's offices within the framework of their duties. Is there a question here - also to the Minister - the Ministry provides for the publication on its website of entries addressed to those who will participate in this and participants who will participate in tourism events and services so that they can be clear in the interpretation of certain provisions? Among other things, Minister Lipiński - that is the Minister for Equal Treatment and Civil Society - pointed out that these records are very fluid, but he also pointed out a provision that is equal to one of the provisions, Art. 4 point 7, tourist trader with paid activity, such as for example ZHP or PTTK, but it does not lead it in a commercial sense, but for its statutory purposes nor achieves any profit. There are also no time limits in the bill to lodge a complaint. This was lacking in haste during the process of this bill. However, I hope that we will be able to continue to work on the amendments tabled by the Civic Platform, which have been tabled in committee in the course of further work on the Senate Act. We know that the date of entry into force or the publication of the law is laid down in the provisions of the European Parliament Directive. We know that we need this law very much, so we will support it, but with that in mind, we strongly hope that in further work some elements will remain, as they have been. in EU countries: Estonia, Austria or Germany, regulated and will be able to reduce this fluidity of interpretation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u446	Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u447	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My previous speakers have already said a lot about this bill. It is indeed the implementation of EU legislation and the implementation of EU law. We therefore have some limitations, which also appeared during the entire procession. It should be noted that this project has been consulted for a very long time and with the tourism industry and the insurance industry, and there has actually been a subcommittee, and in this subcommittee we have worked together with the government, with the Legislative Office, with the President. We were doing everything we could to work out some kind of compromise on a lot of records. I also confirm that the greatest controversy was raised by art. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 7 of this bill. We as Kukiz.15 have tabled an amendment that is far-reaching, simply going in this direction, in order to delete the paragraph of this article at all. The President of the Law and Justice proposed another amendment with his colleagues, which is an expression of a compromise, a good compromise. I will admit so objectively that I can judge that our joint work - and the Ministry - and Members, both from Law and Justice and from the Platform - was the work that should be done in every committee in this Sejm, the work of substance, without any form of aggression, serving to create the best possible law. I agree with the fact that this bill has a lot of imprecise records and it will probably come out, as it is commonly said, in laundry, that something needs to be clarified, but we have quite long vacathio legis. I've also spoken to the Sejm's lawyers here that maybe it'll allow some of these flaws to be fixed. I no longer have these works, which - as I stress once again - were really exemplary when it comes to cooperation, and are a really positive compromise for all parties... Someone has already said in this Chamber that a real compromise is when all parties come out unhappy from conversations or from some sort of arrangement. But I'm not going that far. I believe that this law is everything in Poland, customers, tourists, needs, strengthens the credibility of travel agencies, so it is also necessary to travel agencies, because the biggest threat to this industry is the lack of trust. This is an industry that I can boldly call the public trust industry. Therefore, in order not to prolong my speech, which is, say, a positive signal towards all those parties that participated in this project, Kukiz will support this bill without any doubt. So thank you for your cooperation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u448	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Elisabeth Stępień, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u449	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Modern Club vis-à-vis the government's draft law on tourist events and related tourist services. This is printing 1784 and the report is printing 1956. The draft submitted above all, as my previous speakers have said, is the implementation of the EU provisions, so it concerns Directive 2015/2302 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union of 25 November 2015 on tourism events and related tourist services. The new regulations will replace the 1990 directive, which today is completely out of line with market realities. I would like to stress that the new provisions set out a number of issues, which are long awaited by suppliers and by recipients of tourist services, because they introduce new solutions, therefore the position of the Modern Club regarding the draft resolution is as positive as before. However, we see the need for these regulations and we believe that the project has generally been well prepared, although there are, of course, questions that raise doubts. The committee meeting was just concluded, which introduced a number of amendments to the draft. The procedure itself leaves much to be desired, but nevertheless it is good that e.g. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 62 are deleted. 2. The entry in the Act of 7 September 1991 on the Education System, together with subsequent amendments, led to success, i.e. the elimination of the gray zone to a large extent, so why should we now return to solutions giving birth to pathologies, especially since in addition to regulating the grey zone the registration obligation allows for the control of tourism organisers? This improves the legal security of resting children and young people. The point is not to fire a baby with a bath. After all, the idea is to eliminate dishonest companies and people, not to have rest organized exclusively by travel agencies. I will now move on to the next question of doubt, namely the need to clarify what the term means: an occasional event, because the directive on this matter is not precise. What does it suggest to write a few times a year? What's everyone gonna think of: 5, 6, 12? The law is to be clear. The word "several" should be converted into a specific digit, e.g. an occasional event is one which is organized no more than four times a year or six times a year. This will prevent any speculation and bending of the law for the purposes of its interests, which will reduce the grey zone again. A strong opinion was expressed by a representative of the Government for Civil Society, who pointed out that the lack of sufficient precision of the provision of the Act is an essential basis for the ruling of its non-constitutionality when it is not possible to determine the content of such provision by interpretation. This is the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 28 June 2005, sygn. SK 56/04. Moreover, there is no exemption from the provisions of the Tourist Services Act in the context of a paid public benefit activity. The next point is complaints. The procedure for submitting and examining complaints was not defined during the committee's work. To conclude, Modern is pleased that Polish law will finally be adapted to contemporary realities. However, in addition to establishing a basic framework, it is also necessary to ensure that thoughts are accurately recorded. However, in the case of the project, there are doubts, and not only of an editorial nature. This can lead to different readings of the law, and this in turn may give rise to misunderstandings and even possible legal disputes. I don't have to convince anyone in this room that it's important that the law is clear and doesn't allow it to be interpreted in many ways. Since today a single rule can be understood differently by lawyers, it will be even more difficult for entrepreneurs to interpret it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u450	Thank you, Member. Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko presented his speech on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club in writing. Now I ask you to speak on behalf of Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan's Free and Solidarni Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u451	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law on tourism events and related tourist services. I would like to remind you that the purpose of the bill submitted is to implement Directive 2015/2302 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 into Polish law. The aim of the Directive is to improve the current legislation on the protection of travellers against the consequences of the insolvency of tourism organisers and businesses facilitating the acquisition of tourism services, inter alia. impose an information obligation on travellers. Member States are required to harmonise legislation, inter alia. ensure a uniform level of protection and protection. I must once again stress here how important tourism plays a role in the economy of the European Union's countries today. The dynamic changes in the tourism market force the introduction of current rules that will correspond to today's reality in this area. New developments are not covered by current legislation, which translates into uncertainty in the tourism market. The draft law includes, among others, the following: rules on how to provide travel information and the extent to which information is provided, the rules on liability for non-compliance or improper performance of the contract. In addition, in order to influence legitimate entities, the law introduces criminal sanctions in monetary form. I believe that the introduction of a new ICT system, the Central Register of Tourism Organizers and Entrepreneurs to facilitate the acquisition of Related Tourism Services, will contribute to a faster flow of information. Within the framework of the implementation of the provisions of the new Directive, business trips purchased under the general agreement and travel events and related tourist services will be excluded from the scope of the new directive for less than 24 hours unless they provide for accommodation. I consider it appropriate to separate the rules currently contained in one act concerning tourism organisers, tourist intermediaries and tourist agents from those concerning the provision of hotel services, tour pilots and tour guides. This solution is most appropriate because it concerns two very distant activities. A sub-committee to which this draft law is addressed has been set up for the purpose of considering this draft law. During the work of the subcommittee, the final version of the draft was debated for a very long time and a number of amendments to the bill were adopted. I believe that the new regulations will have a positive impact on the confidence of consumers of tourism services in the providers of these services. The increase in competitiveness should translate into an increase in business revenues. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u452	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to join the questions on this item on the agenda? I can't see. So I close the list. Mr Piotr Polak, Club Law and Justice. I'd like to ask you a question. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u453	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The law is needed because actually in recent times many people using the services of the tourism industry, from going abroad, have lost a lot of money and health. It's a good thing we're tidying up this market. However, I would like to ask you, Minister, because the Act organizes the situation on the tourism market, like other European countries, whether this law also guarantees us the safety of Polish tourists using companies that are not registered in Poland. We have a single European market for tourism services. Is it in this widely understood tourism industry on the European market, if Poles use the services of tourism companies in other countries, that they will be protected from dishonesty? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u454	I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Sport and Tourism of Mr Dariusz Rogowski to answer the question put.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u455	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the context of the allegations concerning the imprecise terms used in the draft law, I would like to draw attention to one important point, namely that the directive implemented is a so-called act. maximum harmonisation, which means that it is impossible to shape the provisions of the draft law in any way, as the aim of the directive was to create coherent and uniform legal solutions for all operators operating on the tourism market in the Member States. In answer to the first question that has been raised here, Mr Kucharski's question, I would like to inform you that an information campaign is being launched, which will be run by the European Commission, but regardless of this, the Ministry of Sport and Tourism will carry out an information campaign to raise awareness of entrepreneurs during the six-month vacathio legis. However, in answer to the second question, Mr Piotr Polak's question, I can even quote the first article of the draft Act on tourist events and related tourist services, which states that the Act sets out the conditions for offering the sale and implementation of tourist events and related tourist services in the territory of the Republic of Poland, as well as abroad, if agreements with travellers are concluded by tourist entrepreneurs established in the territory of the Republic of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u456	Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee by Mr Grzegorz Janik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u457	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank all the Members who worked in the subcommittee and in the committee very warmly for their fruitful cooperation, thank all the environments: and the tourism industry and the insurance industry, as well as thank the Minister for working so well together to implement this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u458	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u459	On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present my position on the government proposal for the Act on Tourism Events and Related Tourism Services, print No. 1784. Following the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on tourism events and related tourism services, EU Member States were required to update and extend existing legislation on tourism, i.e. By 1 January 2018, Member States are to adopt and publish the relevant provisions which should enter into force on 1 July 2018. The directive makes it impossible to shape the provisions of the draft law in any way, as its aim was to create coherent and uniform legal solutions for all operators operating in the tourism services market in the Member States of the European Union. The implementation of the Directive requires amendments to other laws. The main changes concern the Tourist Services Act. Part of the provisions of this Act will be repealed, in turn the regulations concerning the Tourist Guarantee Fund will be transferred to the new Act - the Act on Tourism Events and Related Tourism Services. The new law will also be moved to legislation on tourism organisers, tourist agents and tourist intermediaries as modified accordingly. The draft law sets out the conditions for offering, selling and implementing tourist events and related tourist services in Poland and abroad, if agreements with travellers are concluded by entrepreneurs established in our country, as well as the rules for the functioning of the Tourist Guarantee Fund. The provisions of the Act will not apply, inter alia, excursions offered, ordered and carried out occasionally, on non-profit terms, offered exclusively to a limited group of travellers, as well as business trips organised under a general agreement. The essential regulations contained in the draft law are largely due to the definition of the terms contained therein. A broad definition of the tourist operator has been proposed. The concept of tourist service has been redefined. It will contain four elements: 1) carriage of passengers (air, rail, coach, ferry, ship); 2) accommodation (e.g. at the hotel) for purposes other than residence purposes which are not an integral part of the carriage of passengers; 3. hire of motor vehicles or other motor vehicles; 4. any other service provided to travellers which is not an integral part of the services indicated above. The draft law also defines the concept of "Tourist Party' (a combination of at least two different types of tourist services for the same trip or holiday meeting the conditions set out in the Act) and more and more popular "Tourist Party' (a combination of at least two different types of tourist services purchased for the same journey or holiday covered by separate contracts with providers of these services, meeting the conditions set out in the Act). The draft law regulates the rules of operation of tourism organisers and entrepreneurs facilitating the acquisition of related tourist services and tourist agents. The requirements to be met by these operators in order to legally operate in the tourist services market are indicated. It was decided that the Minister of Sport and Tourism would act as a central contact point to facilitate administrative cooperation and supervision of tourism organisers and entrepreneurs facilitating the acquisition of related tourism services operating in all countries that implemented the Directive. The Minister is also expected to ensure a smooth flow of information between Member States, which will concern business data entered in the Central Register of Tourism Organizers and Entrepreneurs facilitating the acquisition of Related Tourism Services and their financial security. The proposed law was transferred in its entirety, but with some modifications, the current rules on the Tourist Guarantee Fund. TFG serves as an additional financial security (repayment of travelers' contributions and compensation for the costs of bringing them back to the country or covering the costs of continuing the tourist event, so-called. The second pillar). About the so-called. And the pillar of the existing financial security system in the event of the insolvency of the organisers of the tourism, this was left to date, making only the necessary modifications. In addition, it will include entrepreneurs facilitating the acquisition of related tourism services. The draft law also sets out the design and content of the package travel contract, including the scope of the information obligations, the principles and grounds for amending the contract, as well as the question of its implementation and the principles of liability for non-compliance or improper implementation. The draft law also provides for penalties for infringements of the law. They are to be measured, among others. for underpayment of TFG contributions or operating an economic activity involving the provision of tourism services without financial collateral in the event of insolvency. There's been a penalty for these violations. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The new provisions of the draft Act on Tourism Events and Related Tourism Services will protect the consumer from the imbalance between the parties to the Agreement for Participation in the Tourist Event. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is in favour of further work on this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u460	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the consideration of items 25 and 26 of the agenda: 25. First reading of the government draft law amending the budget law for 2017 (print No 1946). 26. First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Act for 2017 (Print No. 1944). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mrs Teresa Czerwinska, to present the reasons for both projects.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u461	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present a draft amendment to the Budget Act for 2017. The material was presented in a nutshell. At the outset, I would like to point out that the amendment of the budget law for the current year is strictly limited in nature, with a view to making a partial change in the structure of state budget expenditure. In contrast to the recent amendments: in 2013 or 2015, when the need for an amendment was either due to a weaker economic situation and assumptions in the structure of the state budget higher than their implementation, or due to significant shortfalls in the revenue side of the state budget, especially as regards tax revenue, this amendment does not involve a revision of the state budget's income side and therefore does not require an increase in the maximum deficit level. I would like to stress that the basic size of the state budget remains unchanged, i.e. at the level resulting from the Budget Act for 2017 of 16 December 2016 and are as follows. State budget revenue of 325 428 002 000 zł. State budget expenditure - 384 773 502 000 zł. And the government budget deficit is also unchanged - 59 345 500 000. zł. However, as I said just now, the structure of state budget expenditure is changing. As regards the expenditure side, it is clear that the amounts included in the Budget Act constitute an absolute limit and thus set a ceiling on their expenditure possibilities for the beneficiaries of the budgetary parts. At the same time, when the state budget is implemented, there are some natural savings every year that result from lower implementation compared to the plan established in the state budget and, of course, have different reasons. This year, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with a special situation, because it is already at the end of September this year. we were faced with a blockade imposed on more than PLN 6 billion in the state budget. This blockade was based on objective factors. This was above all a very good situation on the labour market, which resulted in an increase in social security contributions. It is enough to mention that during the three quarters of this year the proceeds of contributions to the Social Insurance Fund amounted to nearly PLN 124 billion, which means an increase of more than 8% calculated year by year. All of this translates into less demand for subsidies from the state budget for the Social Insurance Fund. I'd like to quote the amount of the blockage. As far as part 73 is concerned, i.e. the reduction of expenditure reported by the Social Insurance Institution, this is the amount of PLN 4050 million at the end of September. The second element that has contributed to these record blockades, the record savings I have just mentioned, is the lower implementation of the European Union budget in 2016 and the associated reduction in the contributions of all the Member States of the European Union, including Poland, which have been calculated as due for 2017. So if we add up only these two savings titles mentioned above, on the expenditure side of the state budget they give the amount of PLN 6.4 billion. Moreover, as I mentioned earlier, in the course of the implementation of the budget of the authorising officers, the principles of the financial economy laid down in the Public Finance Act, including the principle of rational, cost-effective public spending in a targeted, cost-effective manner, with the condition that the best results from the expenditure concerned are achieved. Therefore, as I mentioned, this could also be called natural savings, which we also notice every year. In the revision of the Budget Act for 2017, the limit on state budget expenditure, as I mentioned, has been fixed in relation to the Budget Act for 2017, while the following changes have been made in the structure. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in terms of increases, where we have increased the planned expenditure, first of all, the amount of PLN 3.2 billion needs to be mentioned. In this way, the expenditure limit will be increased in the part concerning the economy of fossil deposits, which aims to secure funds for the implementation of the act signed by the President of the Republic of Poland on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal. This payment will be provided by the end of this year, the one-off benefit for the loss of the right to free coal. The draft law also provides for a total of PLN 1.9 billion for the purchase and entry of shares in the increased share capital of companies governed by commercial law, in which ownership powers are exercised by the minister responsible for economic affairs. These expenses concern companies: the Polish Development Fund SA and the Polish Investment and Trade Agency - to carry out the tasks set out in the "Strategy for Responsible Development" in the field of investment and promotion of Polish economy abroad and internationalization of Polish enterprises. In addition, PLN 1.5 billion was planned for Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. Given the current development of the bank's activities, the potential new initiatives notified by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego in the area of infrastructure development, as well as research, are included in the proposed amendment to the Budget Act. Moreover, there has been an increase in expenditure on culture by nearly PLN 1.2 billion. This is where compensation for the loss of licence revenue for the fee waivers for 2010 and 2017 was provided for public service missions by public radio and television units. Moreover, this amount also includes the financing of audiovisual production, as well as the creation of a new research centre, which will deal with historical research, the dissemination of knowledge about Poland's history, with particular emphasis on the European and global context, as well as the purchase of ownership rights to the catalogue of Polish Recordings from Warner Music Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! In this amendment we also secure a higher limit of expenditure, in total by more than PLN 1.2 billion, for educational benefits granted under the provisions of the Law on State aid in raising children. This increase was calculated on the basis of the current number of recipients per month of this year. There are also measures to equip health prevention offices with special solutions for improving the quality and availability of health care services - i.e. the amount of more than 88 million PLN - as a complement to the existing special provisions for this purpose this year. Due to the need to pay increased contributions to international organisations, expenditure limits have also been increased in parts: Foreign Affairs and Agriculture by a total amount of more than PLN 211 million. Founded in Part 15: General Courts natural savings, which arose this year in terms of the costs of legal proceedings in the amount of approx. 47 million PLN, allowed to increase expenditure in the area of the prosecutor's office for increased costs of prosecution proceedings and to increase property expenses for the payment of liabilities related to the purchase of buildings for prosecutors in Cracow, Chorzów and Łódź. In the framework of the amendment, the aid funds for foreigners, among others, were also secured by PLN 3.6 million higher. for payment of cash benefits, provision of medical care, accommodation, board in rented by the Office for Foreigners of the Centres. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, given the responsibility for public finances, all the basic dimensions, including the deficit amount, as I said, laid down in the Budget Act for 2017, remain unchanged. The changes, as I said, are taking place in the structure of the expenditure that I have briefly discussed. Mrs. Marshal! I ask the High House and ask for the proposed amendment to be adopted, as the proposed revision of the budget will ensure both the payment of compensation for the loss of the right to free coal and the financing of other public tasks and actions that are accepted by the government under the Responsible Development Strategy. Using the fact that your marshal said that at the same time I should discuss the second draft around the budget bill, I will also try to briefly present the assumptions of the draft law on amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Act for 2017. Here I would like to focus on the basic elements that are included in the project. First of all, in the article. 1 is included solutions which provide for the transfer of compensation of PLN 980 million to the National Radio and Television Council mentioned by me for the proceeds of subscription fees for the exemptions referred to in Article. 4 of the Act of 21 April 2005 on subscription fees. I do not need to develop this statement, but to mention that one of the reasons for the growing shortage of public media funding, apart, of course, from not fulfilling the obligation to pay subscription fees by a significant part of the citizens, is a significant extension of the circle of persons exempt from payment of these fees under the Act of 13 June 2008 amending the Act on subscription fees, which entered into force on 1 March 2010. The second element, which is contained in the draft around budget law, is the element which aims to make the financial economy of the Minister of Energy more flexible and to ensure effective implementation in 2017 of the tasks in the coal mining sector, but also what I have already mentioned here, namely to secure the funds for the one-off payment of compensation for permanent loss of supply, the right to free coal in connection with the adopted and signed by the President of the Republic of Poland on 23 October. Another element concerns the government's assumptions of creating health prevention offices. Also in this draft around budget law we provide for the creation of a special reserve for the provision of health prevention offices. For this purpose, the amount of 88 217 thousand is set aside by me. zł. I would just like to remind you that the moment of the start of this project and the dates which were given in the Act imposed a relatively fast pace, and therefore so far it has been launched on these offices of health prevention of the amount of PLN 45,782,086. The provisions contained in the draft around budget law aim primarily to ensure that these funds are transferred and that these entities have more time to apply for them and spend these funds on health prevention offices. Another element that appears in the bill is the creation of a special reserve for the implementation of the Law of 11 February 2016 on State aid to raise children, the implementation of the educational allowance and the addition to the flat-rate amount referred to in the Law of 9 June 2011 on support for family and foster care, and the implementation of the Law of 5 December 2014 on the Charter of the Large Family, which lays down rules for the mobilisation of funds. Appropriations of a new special-purpose reserve item of 316 992 000 PLN will include the higher amount that should be secured for the implementation of the State Aid Act in the raising of children, for the implementation of the educational allowance and the addition to the flat-rate amount that I have already mentioned, but there is also a 500 000 security. PLN for the Minister responsible for family affairs for personalization of the Large Family Charter, as well as an amount of 4100 thousand. PLN for the Minister responsible for transport for the allowance of reduced journeys by public collective transport for parents and spouses of parents holding an important Large Family Card. We are amending the Large Family Charter Act simply by increasing the maximum expenditure limits. These changes I am talking about are linked to the growing demand for the Large Family Charter and the growing demand for rail passenger services under this Large Family Charter. Another element is the mandate in the draft law of the Minister responsible for the economy to allocate additional funds, PLN 100 million, and to take up shares in the increased share capital, which I said today, the Polish Investment and Trade Agency in connection with the implementation of tasks resulting from the Act of 7 July 2017. Here the maximum limit for expenditure on tasks set out in this Act will be increased to PLN 135 million. The next item was created due to the need to employ specialists and experts in the field of real estate management in the National Property Resources and because of the need to speed up the start of tasks by the National Property Resources, even this year. The project extends the scope of expenditure for the implementation of tasks by the National Property Resources, for which this year we could allocate special and subjective grants just from the special reserve. This reserve will be divided by the Minister responsible for public finances at the request of the Minister responsible for construction and spatial planning. High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal! That's it. That's it. That's it. Please accept the proposed bill, which is complementary to the proposed amendment of the Budget Act for 2017 and contains instruments to implement the revised Budget Act. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u462	Thank you very much, Minister, for presenting the project. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would ask Mrs Gabriela Masłowska to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u463	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The proposal for a law amending the budget law for 2017 aims, in short, to implement the provisions of the budget law. The expenditure which was included in the budget law was greater than that which was implemented in the course of the implementation of the budget. In this respect, savings have emerged. As the Minister has submitted, the main source of these savings was the higher income from social security contributions as a result of the falling unemployment rate, which means lower expenditure of the state budget on subsidies to the FUS, as well as a reduction in Member States' contributions to the European Union in 2016 as a result of lower implementation of the European Union budget. Also - to be mentioned, what should be added - the source of these savings was the expenditure on the service of the Treasury debt in 2017 due to the strengthening of the Golden Course. Expenditure has also been blocked as regards subsidies from the state budget to targeted funds and others. The savings that so far resulted in the implementation of the budget, the budget planned for 2017, more than PLN 9 billion, nearly PLN 9.5 billion, thus allowing for the use of the saved funds for the implementation of such tasks and needs, which the Polish Parliament, the current government considered to be absolutely important, needed, urgent and which were expressed in recent laws. The Minister has set out precisely the objectives for which the budgetary resources will be saved, and I believe that there is no need to repeat what the Minister has submitted to us here in very detail, stating the objectives for which these funds and amounts will be allocated. I can only say, as in summary, that the conduct of such a financial policy indicates that it is rational. We work sparingly enough not to waste resources unnecessarily, we have led to some savings, and that is quite significant, almost PLN 9.5 billion, but at the same time they have been earmarked for such tasks and for such purposes, which are absolutely necessary and which have been signalled, often for years, by various social groups, by society. This shows that we are flexible when it comes to financial policy and that we are acting rationally and courageously here. Laws have been adopted accordingly, in which these needs have been recognised; for example, the creation of offices in schools or compensation for lost coal inputs, or the support of families, foster families, the Charter of the Large Family, the Polish Development Fund, i.e. investment objectives, promotion of the economy. This is what Prime Minister Morawiecki often talked about, and the opposition often asked where the money was. So these aren't empty words. As we note, they are specifically covered by the saved funds in the state budget. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I support this action, support the draft laws submitted and welcome the state policy pursued. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u464	Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowronska on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u465	Dear Marshal! Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! The position of the Civic Platform Club on amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Act for 2017 and on amending the Budget Act itself is negative. We are in favour of rejecting these projects. Firstly, I would like to point out the procedure in which the two projects have been amended. It's outrageous. It was only two days ago that this print received a number, so it was sent to Parliament. Agreed, this was accepted and voted out in the Sejm, but unfortunately the minimum time limit which indicates the Sejm's Rules of Procedure is 9 days. We do not propose to accept this project for various reasons. I would like to say first of all that the doctors of the residents have been protesting for 24 days, and the government has not spoken to them and does not propose any implementation of the demands. The only project, the idea is for 2025 and 6% GDP. So you don't talk about the most important thing for Poles. The second argument against the project is what we could expect: there is no deficit reduction. Since it is as great as Prime Minister Morawiecki says, we should expect a reduction in the deficit. This would significantly improve the rating given by the credit rating agency regarding Poland's credibility. This would definitely be an element of how we are perceived on the outside market. The consequence would be to reduce loan needs and the deficit would not increase. And now about the project itself. 980 million for public television and public radio. This compensation you are talking about, reimbursement for some of the recipients who do not pay, is exempt from the subscription fee, radio and television. You did not settle this and you did not tell the state - and it is worth telling Poles - how the loan that was granted to public television was settled or used, in the amount of PLN 800 million. The government signed a deal on July 21st, and the President's Office is responsible for that. So we ask how our public money from this loan is spent. The financial statements show 180 million losses on television itself at the end of 2016. Why, then, is there a new center? Payment of compensation benefits. We agreed in the High House to pay PLN 2353 million. We mark: for miners it is, for doctors there is no, for patients there is no. We point out that money is needed, and we increase the funding for medical prevention to 88 million. But the question is, how are we gonna use that money? Isn't that a shot at the tape? I am very pleased that Mrs Butterwska has said about a good solution, the Charter of the Big Family. It is worth remembering: it is in the last 8 years that you criticize, just then, that the Large Family Charter was introduced, which is definitely a good instrument for helping families of many children. Also increasing the limits for the Polish Investment and Trade Agency of the Company by PLN 100 million will significantly improve the standing of this company. For the company it is, for doctors it is not. Now the National Property Resources. You also made the so-called investment. I'm an employee. That's what we're used to. For additional experts there will be money, for doctors and for our health there is no. This does not prove so well the preparation of the 2017 budget, because it should be cost-effective planning and reduction of the deficit, and that is what we would expect. Once again: as I pointed out at the outset, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club is against [[♪ The bell ♪]] draft amendments to the Around Budget Act for 2017 and the Budget Act for 2017. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u466	Thank you very much. Mr Blazej Pard, Kukiz Club15, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u467	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the process of proceding itself is very strange. We had less than two days to get to know this document, and now we have five minutes to talk about it. Therefore, I will be very brief in my speech. We, as we submit draft laws, often wait months and sometimes even a year for them to enter the proceedings, but I understand that within a few hours the state can cause it to put in its law. Ladies and gentlemen! From what I am reading here, we learn that the state deficit is planned for the same amount as it was, i.e. not even 51 billion, but 59 billion PLN, so almost 60 billion PLN. In this matter nothing changes, all these different myths about surpluses suddenly seem to be untrue, because if you have written it in your own bill, it means it will be PLN 60 billion backwards. Now, yes, you managed to not spend PLN 9.5 billion, because that's what it is, and that's why we have so many vice-ministers today - I warmly greet them - there are more of them in the room than Members, but I understand that when it comes to taking money, interested people appear. [[Joy in the Chamber]] It raises some controversy by increasing the amount to PLN 1 billion for public television. If it was really public media, we'd probably agree. [[Applause]] The problem is that these media are political, they're very dependent. We would wish for independent media, then we could finance them, but we have no influence on what is in these media, only the ruling party - Law and Justice influences it. We would also like the President to be elected in the general election, because if it is to be an independent body, it is the fourth power, so let the citizens also say who they want in this position. So... PLN 1 billion for Polish Television. But where did that 1 billion come from? Among other things. from the Social Insurance Fund, as there is a forecast of lower expenditure on pension benefits and a higher number of deaths. So we have 1 billion, because more people have died and we haven't spent on pensions, so now we can put it on TV. I don't think there's anything going on here, 'cause these deaths are all about the fact that we have terrible health care. [[Applause]] And we're short of doctors and good medicine, but we're putting that money on TV. Turns out I don't know, the sick one on the bed. He can watch some Turkish soap operas and it will make up for two years or ten years waiting in line for a doctor because there are different situations. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let's get down on the ground and try to sort it out so it's better for people, for citizens. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: No, for ours.]] I'm not talking about residents or other social groups anymore, which are really important, but with this money -- 1 billion -- there's really a lot to be done. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Exactly.]] Therefore, we have also prepared an amendment that directs this PLN 1 billion to the National Health Fund and we will also deposit it at the committee meeting. I hope that it will also find support in government benches. From what I can see, you've found less than 90 million in health care, I don't know if it's even 1%. But, well, apparently everyone has a hierarchy of importance - more important and less important things. It seems to you that propaganda is the most important thing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u468	Now you have the floor of Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u469	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It was supposed to be as beautiful as it always was. There was supposed to be a surplus, and there will be a deficit - 51 billion PLN - even those small savings you have taken out of different pockets, you decided to put in other pockets... [[Yours.]] ...of course your constituents: future or present. At the end of the year we will actually record a horrendously high deficit and even Prime Minister Morawiecki has recently stopped lying to Poles, and he has done so for 10 months, saying that public finances have been healed. Then why do we not today have an amendment to the budget, in which we show instead of 59 billion deficits, 5 billion surpluses? Because it fell from Prime Minister Morawiecki's mouth for 10 months that there will be a surplus that public finances are healthy. It turned out that Prime Minister Morawiecki bragged about the surplus, but before paying the bills. At the end of the year the bills have to be paid, and out of PLN 5 billion the deficit will suddenly be 51 billion, so it turns out that for 3 years you will spend more than you should, amounting to PLN 180 billion, because this is a 100 billion increase in public debt last year, 50 billion of this and 40 billion that you are planning for the next year. You're running the country with money from the right to the left. You're so indecent that our debts will have to pay off our children and even our grandchildren. It's worth looking at what you spend your money on. In today's budget change, we have at least a few absurdities in the amendment that prove clearly that you don't care at all about the citizens, and you really don't care how hard they have to work to fund the state's budget with taxes. The best example is to throw money in the mud, i.e. to transfer PLN 980 million to public radio and TVPiS. Suddenly, it turned out that it was necessary to compensate for the loss of subscription revenue, although, as the Minister herself said, the rules have not changed since 2008. What happened that the public media Suddenly they've become completely inept, endless without giving up money from the state budget? If President Kurski doesn't know how to run TV money, he'll just resign. This bottomless well is too expensive. To Misiewicz, such as President Kurski, we say 'no', the transfer of money for propaganda - also. Only now the budget of TVPiS has been powered by money in the form of a non-refundable loan of PLN 800 million, now another billion of Poles' money you give Kursk so that the propaganda tube of the government has something to live for. Is this money for the Law and Justice campaign in the future? Because I don't understand why we suddenly need public television and Polish Radio nearly 2 billion PLN - as if to count these two sources, that's exactly what it looks like. It's outrageous. Especially since, on the other hand, you tell starving residents that you don't have money to raise them to leave the country if they don't like it. I have another suggestion: let President Kurski go. I'm sure the Poles will support that. [[We'll even pay.]] If this PLN 980 million were divided into resident doctors, each of them could get a really large increase of PLN 4855.90 per month. That's what we're giving President Kursk. But if you don't want to give it to the residents, even though you promised them a raise in the election campaign, you can give it to them, for example. for benefits for carers of adults with disabilities. The Court's judgment in this case has not yet been reached. This was done and you also promised them in the election campaign. But it is always worth comparing this money with another budget, e.g. the oncology budget. There's no money for health care. The oncology budget in our country is PLN 6200 million. What you're going to give President Kursk today is nearly 1/6 of the cancer budget. There's no money for health care, but propaganda is. Of course. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's nothing else we can do...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u470	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u471	...how to file a motion to reject this law at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u472	Now Mrs Genowef Tokarska, a club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u473	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! And I have a few words about these two print projects, 1946 and 1944. As has been said, the basic size remains unchanged. The record deficit remains - almost 60 billion. We managed to find the amount of PLN 9446 million from the blockade and from the savings. In common courts - 46 million, the KRUS is deducted from 0.5 billion, from the Social Insurance Institution - 4050 million, special reserves also, own resources of the European Union - 2370 million, due to a reduction in the level of implementation of the European Union budget in 2016. What would these savings be redirected to? At Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego - an amount of PLN 1.5 billion. For the economy, for these agencies, it has already been said - 1900 million. Our membership contributions to international organisations. Of course, culture and the protection of national heritage - here is a total of 1195 million, even for the creation of some new research center for Polish history, probably writing a new history, because there is an IPN, there is a Polish Academy of Sciences, there are universities with humanities departments, so I do not know what history you want to write yet. Foreign affairs are contributions. And the economy of fossil deposits - 3233 million PLN. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! In principle, the Around Budget Act of print 1944 merely clarifies the implementation of all the expenditure planned in the Budgetary Act. When analyzing the proposed changes on the savings side, blocking unnecessary measures and, at the same time, indicating their use, unfortunately, this raises a lot of concerns and concerns. Firstly, I cannot understand at all that the government, bearing in mind those who have been protesting doctors for many days, shows no changes in health care. This is an anesthetic that leads, I think, in a very bad direction. Once again, it is visible to the rulers only the desire to buy future voters. Once again, the proposed allocation of funds is simply unfair. Health care should be a priority for this time. Planning the resources for these tasks should begin here and now. But unfortunately according to the government, the propaganda tube of public media is more important - over PLN 1 billion, another centre for creating a new history is equally important - 75 million. And mining, of course, can no longer wait a moment, although during the two years of the current government a few billion zlotys have been transferred there, and today another tranche - 3230 million. I just want to point out how the government is pursuing senior policy. Today's project takes out 0.5 billion from the CRUS, 4 billion from the CSO, 1 million PLN from the programme for the social activity of older people, and 1 million from the program is also taken off. And please do not repeat that there are free medicines for seniors, because here almost 50 million PLN was saved. And in fact, a free drug program for seniors hardly exists. You rejected the PSL project at first reading to strengthen seniors. Unfortunately, there was no money for it. High Seym! According to the projects presented, this year's budget has managed to block, save an amount of 9.5 billion. Let us do our best to give a good start to changes in health care and safety in this area. It's just as important as everything else, or maybe even the most important. I'm asking the majority of the Seym to verify your position. In this version [[♪ The bell ♪]] neither the project nor the other project is acceptable. On behalf of the club, I request that they be rejected at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u474	Thank you very much, Member. Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarnia, has the floor now. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u475	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Izbo! The state budget is a very complex subject. 5 minutes to express an opinion on it is a time when only some aspects of it can be said or a general assessment of the proposals put forward. On behalf of the Circle of the Members of the Free and Solidarnia, I would therefore like to draw attention to the fact that we are dealing with a new model of concern for state finances in our country in terms of budget planning for the current term of the Sejm, with a new philosophy of having state money. The essence of this novelty is simply logic, honesty, competence and normality. Unfortunately, the truth is that after the previous eight years, during which a year of impunity from the state's money was stolen several dozen billion zlotys... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[What are you saying?]] ...the emergence in financial policy of values such as logic, honesty, competence and normality must be noted as the existence of phenomena in Polish finances long absent. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u476	Do not disturb the Member. [[But you have to make sense.]] Madam, you are disturbing the present lady. You're in the way.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u477	Normality, integrity, integrity for many years in Polish finance were rare. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] The Free and Solidarnia Circle welcomes further evidence that these values have returned to the management of Polish finances... [[On four hands, Member.]] ...and it returned not as an episodeal, rare good, but as a foundation, as the constantly present essence of thinking about state finances. In the case of the draft budget drawn up by the team led by the current finance minister, it cannot be doubted that this project is the fruit of a truly formic, hard work of honest and competent people. This sentence may sound like a cliché, yet it speaks of a momentous fact. We have a breakthrough in Poland, which must be noticed, because without noticeing this breakthrough any kind of imbalance over the budget will not be worth much. After eight years of running public finances by blind people who aren't familiar with what they have, blind people who haven't been able to spot systematic stealing for eight more years... [[Jesus Christ.]] ...in front of hundreds of billions of zlotys, it is with great satisfaction to note the fundamental change that has taken place in the matter of the most important for Poland and Poles, because in temporal life, especially in this place of Europe where our homeland lies, it is difficult to make a matter more important than the material foundations of human existence. Let us note and appreciate that we owe to no one other than the current finance minister such a significant strengthening of the basis of the material existence of Poland and Poles. As with every budget, we should also look with care and care, and even critically, but the Minister of Finance, who has been able to stop permanent, for years on a colossal scale stealing the budget, deserves such respect and trust as none of his predecessors deserved. This great breakthrough in Polish budgetary policy must be properly recognised and appreciated in the High House. The Free and Solidarnia Circle welcomes the fact that people so well serving the Polish state direct Polish finances. In the next budget proposals we see a consistent and far-reaching policy of social solidarity. We regard budget proposals as fair, fair, for the good of Polish families, for the development of the Polish economy and other areas of life in our homeland. Each budget, as well as any budgetary adjustment, which effectively serves such objectives, will have the full support of the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Member Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Korean style.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u478	Thank you very much, Member. 11 ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting time for a question for one minute. As the first Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome. Please kindly observe the discipline of time. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u479	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The revision of the budget, which we are currently looking at, is due to the European labour market hossy, is about PLN 9.4 billion. The current government, instead of allocating it to starving doctors, allocates it to the increase in subsidies to health care. for TV, for the National Council of Radio and Television 1 billion PLN. Let's remember that $800 million has recently been spent, that's a bottomless bag. We don't mind spending money on public television, but not on a propaganda government tube. Prime Minister Morawiecki, if we have been able to save so much money, why not allocate this amount to health care funding, especially in the light of the hunger strike of young doctors? Currently Poland [[♪ The bell ♪]] spends 4.7% on health care GDP. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u480	Thank you, Member. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u481	Thanks to this 9 billion PLN we could already this year...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u482	Thank you, ma'am. You've run out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u483	Can I finish? Can't I finish one sentence? Don't overreact. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u484	No, ma'am, just stay in time. That's why there's a minute left to stick to that time. Be kind to stick to the time. [[Why didn't you hang in there when you were just an envoy?]] I don't remember not hanging in there. Please don't interrupt. Now you're interrupting the hearing. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u485	Minister! As far as you're concerned about reality, I don't think anybody in this country knows. In these days, to invent such words that you finance the culture with $1,200 million, of which you spend 1 billion once again on an institution that has less and less to do with culture... This institution smacks Poles in the head every day, divides them more than connects them. [[Applause]] It's just a lot of arrogance, ladies and gentlemen, power. The funding of television is a huge scandal. How can you look into the eyes of Poles today who simply gnash their teeth out of anger? What happened to you guys? Young people who fight for health care systematically are starving. You guys don't see it at all, and you're spending another billion, because I'm reminding you that there's recently been 800 zlotys, another billion... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u486	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u487	...on poorly managed television. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u488	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u489	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The draft amending of the 2017 budget in the light of recent statements by Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki surprises, surprises. The situation is great, there is a budget surplus, possibly a low deficit. So why is the government taking money out of the special reserve for drugs for people who are 75 years old? Why is it that the government does not secure the means for helping to eliminate the effects of natural disasters, the storms that people are terrified of in winter? [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Why does the government transfer nearly PLN 1 billion to the Polish Television for the execution of a public mission when most Poles know very well that television does not carry out a public mission, possibly a government mission? Isn't this public aid hidden under the coat of lost proceeds from the subscription? Thank you. [[The bell, the applause.]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u490	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u491	At the beginning there will be no polite phrases, because it limits time. So let me get to the questions. Isn't that a deal? 800 million loans to TV and 180 million losses from the previous year are 980 million, write out. It's a match. The President of Kurski will not pay any loan, you will give it to him in this way. [[Applause]] This is outrageous. Question: "How much money have you spent this year on restructuring mining?" Tell me why you're not giving doctors. And one last thing. Once again this year we changed reserves of PLN 3 billion, moved to different directions, 37 opinions. It shows that you can't plan, you can't talk about budget savings. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u492	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u493	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! After reading this bill, it is clear that you are giving away this money with a light hand. Ladies and gentlemen, PLN 1 billion for propaganda in public media. You really have to try to come up with something like this, write it down in the bill. Since it's so good, Minister, I'd like to ask you why you don't spend it on health. You say there's no health funds, there's 1 billion for public television propaganda. Why don't you give parents who raise their children alone some support? They don't get 500+. You say there's no money for that, and there's 1 billion for propaganda in public media. If it's so good, why don't we cut VAT to 22%? You charge 1 billion for propaganda in public media. What is this justice, what is this budget, what is this law and justice? [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u494	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Owa, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u495	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You promised to listen to Poles, today you listen to Jack Kurski. How much it takes to be unrealized so that at the same time that there has been a hunger strike in all of Poland for 3 weeks, doctors who have to work for 3,000. gross monthly, further deepen your education, transfer PLN 1 billion to party propaganda? After all, you are really funding yourself an election campaign so that the speech that was made here just moments ago goes on the TVP Info bar. It's unthinkable. No one's ever had an idea like that. Until 2014 Polish Television had a positive financial result. You could have ruined it in two years. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u496	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u497	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you two questions. Firstly, as far as the issue of public television money is concerned, I would like to ask whether this gesture of solidarity with Jack Kurski was the result of the spontaneous decision of the Ministry of Finance, or whether a request from public television had been received in this case. If so, was there any justification in this proposal for what Mr. Jacek Kurski or the public radio are planning to do, and how will this money be settled? Were they really meant to carry out missions, specific programmes, or were they simply lost in an uneconomic way, as previously managed by public television president Jacek Kurski? I would also like to ask about the second item in this budget, about the amount of PLN 900 million, which is intended to continue to save unprofitable mines. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What exactly is this money going to be used for? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u498	Thank you very much. And the question is asked by Mr Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u499	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! I would like to ask you about your trust in you. As it is that for a few months we are hearing about a huge budget surplus - not at all about a budget surplus - and today it turns out that there will be no deficit surplus, that debt will be the same as it was supposed to be before, in the amount of approx. 2,5% GDP. Of course, the opposition is sheding tears at the moment, regretting the tragic fact that there will be debt and a deficit. Let me remind you what debt was before: in 2009 - 7.5% GDP in 2010 - 2.8 GDP. So what is happening in this House is a tragedy. And second question. Why aren't we moving this money to health care if there's any free money? Poles die too soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u500	Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u501	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! The question is addressed to the Minister of Environment. It's about the content of the article. 35 Print Act 1945, namely the extension of the date of entry into force of amendments to the Hunting Law Act. I'll remind you, it was a parliamentary project. The Act adopted in June 2016 was originally intended to enter into force on 1 January 2017. A year ago the vacatio legis was also extended in the Around Budget Act. What are the reasons why, for a further period of 2,5 years, this law is postponed and justified in one sentence by the fact that there is no liquidity as regards financial matters relating to the funds for the Compensation Fund? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u502	Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz.15. I don't see your MP. Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u503	High Izbo! In my previous speech, I asked how to save on medicines for seniors PLN 50 million. But there are more flowers like that in this project. Namely, almost 35 million PLN was also saved for state aid in the area of nutrition. Similar savings, although perhaps slightly different, concern the Civil Initiative Fund. After all, we know very well how big the activity of various kinds of associations and foundations is. Why didn't these resources just be used? I'm surprised at this kind of savings. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u504	Thank you very much. Is there an answer from the government? It's, uh, well, you're welcome. Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski, State Secretary at the Ministry of Energy. You're welcome. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] There's no minister? [[The minister escaped, out of shame.]] Minister Lewandowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. [[And you are an envoy? The Minister is an MP?]] Oh, there's Minister Tobiszowski. Have you decided who answers the questions? You're welcome, Minister. [[The Minister wanted to be an MEP.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u505	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I'm not an MP. Just today the whole government came to answer your questions and I had to sit somewhere. [[Then sit in government benches, not MPs. That's the rule.]] Okay, thank you for your instruction. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! One of the reasons for the gross lack of public funding of public media in Poland, apart from the non-performance of the obligation to pay subscription fees by a large number of citizens, is the substantial extension of the circle of persons exempt from the obligation to pay subscription fees under the Act of 13 June 2008 amending the Act on subscription fees, which entered into force on 1 March 2010. Since the entry into force of this law, the scope of public media tasks has not decreased and the loss of resources for their implementation linked to this extension of the group of exempt persons has not been compensated in any way. The proposed rules aim at fulfilling this obligation by the State and removing the identified gap. On the basis of the law, it is envisaged to determine directly the total amount of compensation for the loss of revenues from subscription fees resulting from the increase of the exemptions from those charges in 2010 and 2017 in relation to the state before 1 March 2010. The compensation will be transferred from the State budget to the separate account of the National Radio and Television Council, which is affected by the subscription fees, which remain under the supervision of the national board, intended exclusively for the execution by public broadcasting units of a public service mission, up to an amount not exceeding the expenditure incurred in carrying out that mission. [[Is this your idea?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u506	Minister, don't argue with the Members of the jury. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: Current and future guarantees for the proportionality of public funding of public media missions, which aim to prevent overcompensation, which concerns subscription fees and other public sources of public media funding, will be applied. To this end, public broadcasters will be obliged to change their financial and programme plans and the National Radio and Television Council to determine, by resolution, how the compensation amount will be allocated between the public radio and television units. I would like to remind you that public radio and television is a mission, among others. informing citizens about what is happening in Poland... [[Do you believe what you're saying?]] ...and at the same time providing entertainment, presenting sporting events and high-end cultural events and broadcasting events that are not broadcast by commercial media because they do not bring profit. For this will be allocated in full the money guaranteed in the state budget. Thank you very much. [[A billion.]] [[Minister, do you believe the words you say?]] [[The Minister must believe.]] Thank you very much, Minister. But you're the Minister? Minister Tobiszowski?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u507	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u508	Excuse me. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski. You're welcome. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: As far as restructuring expenditure is concerned this year, this is 1003 million. This applies to mines decommissioned before 2007, so-called. old decommissioning - these are the parts of mines and mines that have been transferred to the SRK, as well as those parts of mines that in the current process - e.g. part of the mine Room or Jas-Mos - have been transferred to SRK. This year's expenditure falls within this amount. Also issues related to the Social Security Office, i.e. carbon deposits, employee claims that we have... [[How much?]] Within this 1003 million. This is the amount we spent in 2017. However, 900 million is this additional amount. What does it say? Unfortunately, our predecessors did not notice that mining damage was in the mines which were transferred from the Coal Company, the old mines. This caused us to have a problem when the Polish Górnicza Group was formed and it was a matter of leaving the estate in the Coal Company. Well, there was a matter of regulation of old mining damage. This is more than 600 million and there are consequences for repairing, for example, the technical parts that have been transferred to the SRK. Hence this increase of 900 million this year so that we can settle outstanding issues, among others. for legal proceedings, that is almost 600 million, and secure funds to cover mining damages in the future related to old mines transferred to the SRK. So that this is not a process related to the new restructuring period, but even to the negligence and unpredictability by the predecessors of the fact that the operation of the mine involves the cost of covering mining damage. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. Ms Teresa Czerwińska will now perform undersecretary of state at the Ministry of Finance. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u509	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I just want to address those issues that have not been raised in a way so far, I would say more general. As far as the issue raised by Mrs Czernow is concerned, the 4th reserve for the eradication of natural disasters is concerned, I would like to stress that there were resources for this, additional resources of PLN 50 million were accepted by the Committee on Public Finance and directed. There has been an increase in this reserve precisely in order to allocate funds to the eradication of disasters and natural disasters this year. This reserve was launched at the moment, if I remember correctly, on 12 or 13 October, we distributed these additional funds. So that here we see as much as possible this need and there were these additional funds in connection with, for example, the events of this year. On the other hand, when it comes to the issues that have been raised, about the deficit, about the savings, I would just like to say that we are reporting the implementation of the state budget after each month. Indeed, this implementation of the State budget showed surpluses. As far as the end of the year is concerned, there is, of course, a deficit in the course of the implementation of the state budget before the end of the year, when the months are coming. And it's indisputable, it doesn't result from bad performance or from any other factors. It's just that spending by the end of the year is speeding up. Therefore, if we examine every implementation of the state budget year by year, we will see that always at the end of the year, when we already have the final knowledge of all expenditure, when we have the final knowledge of all revenue, of course this result will be in deficit. So that here I see no contradiction between what Prime Minister Morawiecki gave and what was given today. And the second point about budget revenue. I just want to point out that we have left the issue of income, expenditure and deficit unchanged in the revision, but that is what I would call responsibility for public finances. Surely you are familiar with the dynamics of tax revenues this year, so of course it would be possible to take advantage of the economic situation and take advantage of what some of the ladies and gentlemen have raised, i.e. very good results in the labour market, very good economics, to think about changing incomes at all. On the other hand, we are very careful, we are moving only and only in relation to these issues within the limits set, without even looking at the optimistic forecasts that relate to the performance of the gross domestic product, etc. So I'm gonna let myself have a completely different opinion here. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u510	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft laws contained in prints 1944 and 1946 at first reading. We will vote on these proposals in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on specific arrangements for implementing the budget law for 2018 (print No. 1945). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Ms Teresa Czerwińska, to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u511	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present in a synthetic manner a draft law on specific arrangements for implementing the 2018 budget law, while stressing that this project is complementary to the submitted draft budget law for 2018. I would like to focus on a few key elements that are included in this draft around budget law. Firstly, with regard to 2018, social funds are expected to be maintained at the same level as in 2017. These solutions will apply to teachers for whom it is proposed that in 2018, as in 2017, a write-down to an occupational social benefit fund should be made at the level of the basic amount of 1 January 2012. For university staff, a write-down to an occupational social benefit fund of 6,5% shall be created the annual personal salaries planned by the university. The project envisages that this write-down will continue at 2013 level, with less write-downs being made at universities where the wage fund will decrease due to employment constraints. In the case of pensioners and former soldiers and police officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, Government Protection Office, State Fire and Prison Service, the bill proposes to maintain the basis for establishing the write-off to the Social Fund in 2018. As regards the occupational benefit fund of other occupational groups, in this case the basis for calculating the write-down will be PLN 3161.77 from 2012. In the 20,000th year of the 18th... [[Two thousand eighteen. In Polish.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u512	Please don't disturb me. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Teresa Czerwińska: Two thousand eighteen. ...in terms of remuneration, the bill provides for the maintenance of the current remuneration at year level in the entities and legal entities of the public finance sector. Here we are talking about the fact that these salaries will result from the financial plans for 2017 in the public finance sector, where they are not included in the budget law, and at the level of the financial plans in certain units of the public finance sector for 2018 included in the draft budget law submitted to the Sejm. In view of the principle of social justice, we propose the so-called. freezing of the maximum remuneration of the persons referred to in Article. 2 of the Law of 3 March 2000 on the remuneration of persons managing certain legal entities. This provision concerns managers, deputy managers and other managers in organisational units such as state-owned enterprises, state agencies, research institutes, state budget units, self-government organisational units with legal personality, independent public health care establishments. We also propose the so-called. freezing at the level of 2017 the basis for determining the remuneration of persons employed in entities subject to the provisions of the Act of 9 June 2016 on the rules for determining the remuneration of persons managing certain companies. The introduction of regulation is expected to allow individuals in the public finance sector to increase their personal remuneration for their business activities next year while complying with the conditions set out in the Act. In the case of teachers, provision has been made for increasing teachers' salaries from 1 April next year on the deadline for making these increases. Here we have also indicated the date of compensation: 1 April 2018. In view of the planned increase in teachers' salaries, it is proposed to amend the way in which the expenditure on the prize fund is determined in the voivod's budgets and in the budget of the Minister responsible for Education and Education. The next point concerns changes to the Labour Fund, which aim primarily at rational spending of funds from this Fund in 2018. The situation on the labour market is very good, as has also been mentioned many times here. The year 2017 is the fourth year in which we report a systematic decrease in the number of registered unemployed and registered unemployment rates. The important issue proposed in the Around Budget Act is the financing of post-graduate traineeships and specialist training of doctors and dentists, as well as the specialization of nurses and midwives from the Labour Fund in 2018. These measures, as in the current year, will also cover the costs of handling this task. Ladies and gentlemen! We are introducing a regulation that introduces a pro-efficiencies mechanism in 2018 in the system to support the remuneration of employees of district labour offices by means of the Labour Fund. The proposed provisions contain modifications aimed at, among others, the creation of an incentive mechanism for the implementation of central programmes financed by the reserve of the Minister responsible for Labour, which also means an incentive to activate more unemployed people and to carry out tasks directly related to the current government policy. Another issue concerns funding from excess funds of the Guaranteed Fund for Occupational Benefits and Pre-retirement Benefits and funeral allowances, together with the cost of handling them. In the project we also introduce a number of solutions that allow the financing of specific tasks from the State budget under the resources available to state-owned special-purpose funds. This concerns financing the preparation of national team players to participate in international competition in Olympic sports through the Fund for the Development of Physical Culture and financing part of the public health tasks included in the National Health Programme for 2016 and 2020 from the Fund for the Solution of Gambling Problems. The draft law also provides for the possibility of redemption of the State Treasury's debt on loans granted from the State budget to the Social Insurance Fund for the financing of benefits guaranteed by the State which are due on 31 March 2019. Furthermore, as regards such important points, I would also like to point out that the Around Budget Act contains a regulation on the non-compliance of the article. 37a Act on Liquid Biocomponents and biofuels, which provides that specific actions and promotion and assistance in matters relating to liquid biocomponents and biofuels and the promotion of green transport can be co-financed by the Minister responsible for Energy of 1,5% planned in the previous year for excise duties on motor fuels. Another thing that has been included in the Around Budget Act is the provision which provides a material basis for the allocation of part of the resources available to the Minister of National Defence to finance expenditure in 2018 relating to the modernisation of the equipment of the services under the Ministry of Interior and Administration in the field of transport equipment, arms, special technology, IT, communications and personal protective equipment of officers. A similar provision concerns expenditure related to the prevention of the negative effects of pilots deficit in the helicopter medical rescue service and the modernisation of the Aircraft Transport Team in the Air Rescue Emergency Service in Warsaw. There are also provisions which, as I said in the same way, allow the financing of this task from the resources at the disposal of the Minister for National Defence. Another, actually the penultimate, concerns a solution aimed at covering part of the cost of contributions paid to international organisations from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. The coverage of these contributions results from Poland's membership of international organisations and the direct connection with the implementation of environmental and water management tasks by the Minister of the Environment, which results from international agreements and international cooperation in this area. In addition, it is envisaged to regulate the amendment of the entry into force of the Law of 22 June 2016 amending the Law on Hunting Law. The amendment of the date of entry into force of the Compensation Fund Act is necessary for the smooth, effective implementation of the Fund's arrangements and for ensuring the proper functioning of the Fund and the new system of compensation for hunting damages. A provision is also introduced which allows for increased funding and thus allows the creation and operation of voivodship social dialogue councils. Next year, according to the project, the creation and functioning of each of the newly created voivodship councils is expected to be dedicated to 200,000. zł. Ladies and gentlemen! The bill submitted is reflected in a measurable correlation in the amounts included in the draft State budget for 2018. The provisions of the Around Budget Act are closely related to this project. The legal solutions that are contained in this Act complement the budget next year, allow it to be properly implemented, and therefore I ask the High Sejm to accept it. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Maria Zuba will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u513	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Government has submitted to the High House a draft law on specific arrangements for the implementation of the 2018 Budget Act. The legal solutions contained in the draft introduce rules conducive to the smooth implementation of the state budget in 2018 and allow for rational use of the funds planned in the State budget. Among other things, the government proposes to introduce a provision in the Teacher's Charter for the rational use of the amounts allocated to the teacher's professional improvement budget, which gives delegates the opportunity to use unused funds for other purposes in the area of education. The practice of self-government staff so far shows that disponners obtain EU funding for the professional improvement of teachers, and only when they are lacking do they apply measures secured by the State budget, and it is therefore justified that the principle of allowing the authorising officer to use the saved funds for this purpose for the purpose of education applied in 2017 should also be applied in 2018. The government proposes that in 2018 a write-down of the share benefit fund should be made on the basis of the base amount of 1 January 2012 and that for the staff of public institutions the write-down of the share benefit fund should be combined with the annual personal salaries planned by the university. The project also proposes changes in the way in which the expenditure on the prize fund is determined in the voivodeships' and ministers' budgets. In addition, the provisions of the project introduce changes related to benefits and remunerations in the field of public finances. The wage changes relate to, like, four areas in public finance units and entities. The government proposes to freeze remuneration at 2017 level in the public finance sector's legal entities and entities, as well as in the remuneration of management members and supervisory authorities supervising companies, including Treasury companies, and at the level of financial plans for 2018 - in public finance units. In addition, the following provisions of this draft law allow next year, while maintaining statutory criteria, to increase the remuneration of public finance units for their business activities. These increases will only apply in 2018 and will have no impact on the budgets of the following years. One-year wage increases would be financed [[♪ The bell ♪]] By these units...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u514	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u515	...made, not planned...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u516	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u517	...the revenue of these units. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u518	Now you have the floor of Izabela Leszczyn, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u519	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! If enthusiasm has not been expressed by Mrs Zuba, it means it is not good. [[Applause]] I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Club the position of my club in relation to a law that is the legal basis for the government's spending of taxpayers' money. My first question is this: Isn't the PiS government ashamed that the most important laws - the amendment of the law for 2017 and the around budget law - are proceeding at night? What are you ashamed of? After all, it should be the feast of the High House, it should be the feast of the Minister of Finance. There's such a great budget. Why are you doing this under the cover of the night, hoping that the Members will go to sleep and not ask you difficult questions? Well, there's nothing to brag about. You can do this propaganda on PiS TV, but not here in the Seym. What's in this budget bill? We have raises for teachers. They're supposed to be here from April. They'll be here from May. It was supposed to be 5%. It's 3.3%. 3% The teacher's raise is given by the Minister of Finance, who walks all over the television and tells about the budget surplus? 3%, my fellow Member? And you're not ashamed of that? The Civic Platform at the time of the crisis gave 50% Increases to teachers for 8 years, and you in 3 years 3%. That is the rule of law and justice. The PiS government freezes the base amounts for write-downs to an occupational welfare fund for teachers at level - note - 2012 [[Applause]] [[Shame.]] And it's so great. In 2012 there was a crisis, and in 2018 there will probably be a mountain of economics. You freeze the base amount for the same write-downs also for university staff. You're freezing your salary in the budget at all. How can you freeze pay in a budget when you really keep saying things that aren't true, about the success of tax collection, about sealing these taxes? So what are you gonna do with the money? In this bill, except... There's still $3,000. new jobs in courts. I understand that these jobs are the consequence of the assassination of the common courts you've done with President Andrzej Duda. Well, congratulations. In this bill we have two more things: the dismantling of the expenditure rule, that is, the ruining of the state's finances, and the fraud of Antoni Macierewicz, in which Minister Błaszczak is bravely supporting him. Let's start with the rules. From the Labour Fund you transfer pre-retirement benefits and funeral allowances to the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund. Why do you think? [[Voice from the room: Better fit.]] I'm sure the directors would say, 'cause this fund doesn't fall under the rules. And if you're not subject to the spending rule, then you're a lot cooler when it comes to spending money, because you guys, when it comes to spending, you're acting like gamblers, that means you have to spend everything you can on things that absolutely don't deserve it, like this miserable, lying, propaganda, disgusting PiS-ow TV. And the lies of Antoni Macierewicz. You're saying you're giving 2% to defend yourself. And what did Macierevich come up with recently? That you'll give more than 2%. But why if he can't spend it? I'm not talking about those advance payments on caracales that are never gonna happen, because you can't do that, I'm not talking about VIP planes that have little to do with national defenses. I'm talking about Minister Macierewicz giving Minister Błaszczak PLN 400 million to the Police in part: National Defense. It's not like the police are military. Aren't you really ashamed to just lie in an absolutely unprecedented way in the High House? There is no way, High Sejm, to support such a bill. Remember, this is the legal basis for spending money, not yours, but taxpayers' money. Therefore, the Civic Platform [[♪ The bell ♪]] submit an application to reject this law at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u520	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u521	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I am pleased to present my position towards the Government's draft law on special arrangements for the implementation of the 2018 Budget Act. The solutions proposed in this project could have been discussed many months earlier, as they have significant implications for the state budget. Unfortunately, the project, which was sent to the Sejm on Tuesday, is processed after only 2 days. I appeal to the government for seriousness and respect, if not for us, Members, for example for the citizens we represent. As a Member, who is here for the first term of office, maybe it is naive for some long-term Members, I still believe that the law should be made with care, rationally and thought out. One of the proposed changes is the financing of medical traineeships from the Labour Fund. This solution is right. It's hard to disagree with him. I still maintain that health care is underfunded and Poles live a few years less than the citizens of other countries of the European Union. As regards health expenditure, which is expected to represent only 4.68% in 2018 GDP, we're only ahead of Turkey, Latvia and Mexico. In recent years several thousand well-educated doctors, nurses, physiotherapists have left Poland. Others are planning to leave the country. And what does the government do with the PIS? He's leading a crusade against doctors. I must refer to the scandalous proposal made in this project. It's about the law on the Hunting Damage Compensation Fund. The Government shall postpone the entry into force of this Law once again on 22 June 2016. Its purpose was to set up a Compensation Fund, which would cover the enormous damage suffered by farmers and caused by wild animals which are owned by the State Treasury in their crops and agricultural fetuses. Already last year, the government postponed the entry into force of the Act for 2018. Now it proposes an identical solution by translating this term - note - for 2019. The justification for extending the vacathio legis was prepared on a copy-paste basis from last year's project. This shows that such justification is wrong and is not factual. It should arouse our laughter, but in this situation it causes cruel embarrassment. The justifications for both projects - last year's and current - are the same: the amendment of the date of entry into force of the Compensation Fund Act is necessary for the smooth and effective implementation of the fund's solutions and for ensuring the proper functioning of the fund and the new system of compensation for hunting damages. It's hard to believe that the government needs more than two years to create a fund, while multi-billion-dollar programs start to work after a few months. It must be said that farmers have been deceived. The government treats them like second-class citizens. Once again, a narrow group of people with hobbies is privileged at the expense of thousands of farmers, who have to cover huge losses from their own money caused by game preying on their fields, destroying their achievements, their work. I am aware that hunters have a strong lobby, also in the benches, but the influence of the government is evidence of its inability, above all of the failure of the Minister of Agriculture, who lost the battle with the Minister of the Environment, could not guarantee farmers the right to fair compensation. Let me repeat: rights, because compensation for hunting damages is not an act of grace. According to the law, free hunting animals are the property of the State Treasury, and after killing they miraculously become the property of a hunter. Compensation is, therefore, something that the farmer deserves. The government's proposal will be summarised briefly: shame, shame, and shame. I therefore request that the project be rejected at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u522	Mr Marek Ruciński, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u523	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Modern One, I have the honour to refer to the bill, print No. 1945, on specific arrangements for implementing the Budget Act for 2018. A short time of 5 minutes does not allow you to refer to all articles of this project. Therefore, I will be selective in referring mainly to the article. 12. The project regulates the payment of the Labour Fund for post-graduate traineeships, specialization training and specialisations. The bill provides for the financing in 2018 of post-graduate traineeships and specialization trainings for doctors and dentists, as well as the specialization of nurses and midwives from the Labour Fund. This kind of solution was suggested by the Civic Platform during the last parliamentary debate. But it's just an ad hoc solution to the problem. The solution proposed by the government is even worse because it eliminates funds from the Ministry of Health, i.e. it is de facto intended to make savings within one of the departments at the expense of the Labour Fund. It is difficult to give a positive opinion on the proposals in print 1945, which relate to the area of health protection. The financing of post-graduate internships and specialization training for doctors and dentists and the specialization of nurses and midwives from the Labour Fund is only an ad hoc solution. Once again, the government shows that there is no long-term health strategy. Moreover, the changes proposed in this printing are seen as an introduction to the introduction of a scholarly residency system, which was recently mentioned by Minister Konstanty Radziwiłł. Since the beginning of October, as a Modern, we have called on the Prime Minister and the Head of the Health Department to open themselves to a substantive dialogue with residents. The declarations that fall publicly from Minister Radziwiłł's mouth only escalate this conflict. Instead of discussing the postulates put forward by the Medical Profession Agreement, the Minister threatens young people with the need to work off their studies. Will non-medical education also take place in this form? Will Polish programmers, musicians and scientists who decide to leave the country also have to pay back the costs that the Polish state has incurred by training them in these specialties? I was also surprised to note that the amendment of the Budget Act for 2017 did not include provisions for the implementation of demands for which residents have been fighting since the beginning of October. The crisis of talks between young doctors and the Minister of Health continues and the government pretends not to see him. The announcement of an increase in health expenditure in 2025 to 6% is a distant perspective, and the problem is here and now. Two months left by the end of the year. Does the Minister want the protest to escalate and include more cities in Poland? Why have other ministers been able to provide additional funding for their tasks, and the Head of Health Department is unable to effectively fight out the urgent and necessary amounts in the area of healthcare and health care? A modern proposal to reject the bill at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u524	Thank you very much. Now Mrs Genowef Tokarska, a club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u525	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on print No. 1945. This bill, so-called. the around budget law, is closely linked to the Government's draft budget law for 2018, complementing and detailing the implementation of the specific tasks included in the budget. The project indicates, in accordance with the Teacher's Charter, the separation of funds for the professional improvement of teachers, which can also be used for other educational needs. It proposes that in 2018, as in this year, a write-down to the Employee Social Benefits Fund for teachers should be made on the basis of the base amount of 1 January 2012 and for staff of public universities at the level of 2013. In the public finance sector, it is proposed to freeze salaries in individuals and entities in the sector, to freeze the remuneration base in companies, and to freeze the maximum remuneration for managers. It envisages the creation of new jobs in common courts, a total increase in employment of 2 000. posts and 13 posts in the Supreme Administrative Court. The social benefit fund is also covered by the freezing and the pension provision of uniformed services and their family members is based on the 2012 deduction for pensions. In assessing the really good situation in the labour market, the project indicates the Labour Fund to finance post-graduate traineeships, specialized trainings, as well as specializations for doctors, dentists, nurses and midwives. On the other hand, the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund will finance benefits and pre-retirement benefits and funeral allowances. But according to the project, there will be lower money from the Labour Fund for programmes related to employment promotion, mitigation of the effects of unemployment and labour activation. The project also proposes the financing of membership contributions to the European Space Agency and the European Organisation for the Operation of Meteorological Satellites from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, and the Physical Culture Development Fund will finance tasks related to preparing national team players to participate in international competition. The project also regulates the financing of programmes for the modernisation of uniformed services, medical rescue, as well as programmes for victims and post-penitentiary assistance and social dialogue councils. It also refers to laws on biocomponents, on social security systems, on transport. In conclusion, it should be noted that the draft around budget law very clearly defines the situation of Polish public finances. The 2018 Budget Act has already shown the mess of investment and development, it has unimaginably deepened the further debt of our country, the debt of Poles. This debate today clearly shows what stage of development we are at. The basic return used in this project is freezing, and the second is basing - at 5 years old, from 2012 and 2013. Transferring tasks in turn to further years, beyond 2018. It all speaks for itself. Ladies and gentlemen, this reminds me of a period of deep financial crisis in the world, but we are living in a different reality. The project doesn't deserve support. I'm filing a motion to reject it at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u526	Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarni. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u527	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Izbo! A few dozen minutes ago, we discussed a similar law concerning specific arrangements for implementing the 2017 budget law. Just like the other one, I can't add much. The budget and the rules introducing it are a number of solutions operating on the basis of combined vessels. It is impossible to discuss whether or not to consider them separately. Just refer to the work of the current finance minister, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki... [[Long live!]] ...and a team of his associates. We are talking about people who have done something really great for Poland, for Poles, for all of us. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Are we sure we're realizing the merits of the Minister of Finance? It's his credit to save our country only from taxes this year... [[Even for the communes, my fellow Member, that was not the case.]] ...tens of billions of zlotys. Tens of billions... [[Voice from the room: Hundreds of billions!]] ...which, instead of going to Polish families, to Polish health services, to Polish schools, would go to the hands of thieves - thieves accustomed to the fact that year after year these tens of billions took themselves without risking any punishment. They took it as if it belonged to them, those billions worked out in great trouble... [[Are you talking about the SKOKs?]] ...billions of thousands of economic operators, billions of millions of honest Polish citizens' contributions, often of the most true widow's penny of poor people. This is more money than the sum of taxes resulting from many branches of the Polish economy. Note that watching the state money, although necessary in every country in the world, in Poland is of exceptional importance. Countries located on the outskirts of the continent, on safe antipodes, away from the powers of aggressive traditions, can afford a little budgetary carelessness. In the case of Poland there can be no place for it. Poland is poor Poland, Poland is weak, and all of our history of nearly 11 centuries is proof that Poland poor, Poland weak is Poland, which in its geopolitical environment has no chance of staying long. Perhaps we should address the criticisms directed at the authors of the budget proposals. However, how much criticism can be worth from people who have not found such critical words for those budget authors who for eight long years have not expressed a single word of concern about hundreds of billions of government money leaking through their fingers? I don't think there's any point in arguing. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports the draft law on specific arrangements for implementing the Budget Act for 2018. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u528	Thank you very much, Member. Six ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting time for a question for one minute. First Mrs. Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u529	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The draft Around Budget Act for 2018 assumes, among others, freezing, as a general rule, wages in public finance units at 2017 level. That's a shocking offer. I have a question about the impact of this provision on the expenditure associated with the increase in salaries in these units. When discussing the draft budget in the various parts that are now taking place, the issue of low wages is raised, for example. For employees of the prosecution, courts, conservation services. In these and many other units there is a high fluctuations of workers due to improvements in the labour market. Will the provisions of the Around Budget Act increase the remuneration of these entities? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u530	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u531	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! Today I understand why the 2018 budget was presented separately, and now there is a around budget law. Because the budget bill is a shame. So highly praised goods - the 2018 budget. A around budget bill is what? Freezing. If it is so good, why do you freeze the social fund, indicating the base amount of 2012 and at universities in 2013? Why? After all, freezing is an immanent feature of difficult situations. The budget of the Minister for National Defence. He's killing himself a little taller, and now he's a benefactor, giving 400 million to the Ministry of Home Affairs. It's kind of budgetary corruption. And if it's so good, then why are you here? [[♪ The bell ♪]] You don't pay...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u532	Mrs Genowefa Tokarska...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u533	...for the program "30 minus..." [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u534	...a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u535	...for 2017 at the expense of employers? [[Applause]] [[A sentence to allow you to finish, as culture dictates.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u536	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to get back to the subject that Mr Sachaika has already highlighted quite strongly today. I mean the Hunting Law adopted in June 2016, which introduces the Compensation Fund. It turns out, according to the presently debated law, that here we are moving the implementation of this fund until 15 June 2019. This is a really big problem for Polish farmers. There's really a lot, a lot of hunting damages. Farmers are waiting for this project. I don't understand what the government explains about this shift, about this big problem, about another year and a half. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u537	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u538	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! You probably expect me to ask about the Compensation Fund when it comes in, but it doesn't make sense to ask, because I am convinced that in the form proposed, you will put it down and put it down and put it down, and you do not want to adopt the new Hunting Law. That is why I will ask a much simpler question and also interesting citizens. It's about art. 25, provisions for the redemption of loans granted to the Social Insurance Fund. As if it could be developed and said to the citizens: Who gave them, and why, when they gave them and why were they loans rather than grants? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u539	Thank you. Mrs Barbara Zuba, Club Law and Justice. [[Mr. Marshal, Barbara's nice too, but my name is Maria.]] Maria Zuba, I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u540	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It turns out that Member of the Civic Platform expects enthusiasm in the Polish Parliament. Parliament is no place for enthusiasm. Enthusiasm may have a good place in the stadium, in the cabaret... somewhere in the theater show. And here, when we discuss the budget, we must respect and have a serious discussion. Minister, is it true that at the moment when the Civic Platform decided to raise teachers' salaries, then the local governments, in order to comply with the statutory record, with the implementation of these provisions, were indebted to their municipalities? Do we know to what extent they have been indebted [[♪ The bell ♪]] municipalities in our country? Thank you. [[The municipalities aren't in debt. What are you saying?]] [[The voice from the hall: Because the fact that you don't remember your previous speeches...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u541	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u542	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! However, I came here to work with enthusiasm, Commissioner, and I see nothing wrong with this. [[Just like us, bravo.]] On the other hand, when returning to the Act - the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2018, ladies and gentlemen, it should be called: on specific arrangements for the implementation of the Budget Law for 2018. [[Right.]] But I don't have much time, so only two details. First of all, Art. 20 and 21. Ladies and gentlemen, why are you cheating Poles, cheating allies, cheating Minister Macierewicz, who said that in 10 years' time Poland will be able to resist anyone? If that's the case, you're gonna count him in the 2%. To go to defense, all the budget expenses, in this army's life, we can't fix it, really. In this mode, in which you enter the modernization of the police in the limit of 2% You might as well enter roads, because there's military equipment on the roads. And the other thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's also planned...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u543	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u544	...a raise for teachers. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u545	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u546	Ladies and gentlemen! How much are you gonna save on the fact that she's gonna be here from April instead of January 1st? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u547	The Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Teresa Czerwińska, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u548	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address collectively the questions asked by the countries for which I thank you. The first question here was Hunting Law. This issue is in both the Members' speeches and the question asked later by the Member and concerns the date of entry into force of the Hunting Damage Compensation Fund. I would like to say that, indeed, while the legal act itself has been adopted, as of today, taking into account the analysis of various sources of funding, not just the budget - which are ongoing - of the cost of estimating compensation payments in hunting circuits, we are dealing with the development of a mechanism. Therefore, it was necessary to suspend payments from the Compensation Fund in the Around Budget Act. I just want to remind you that this suspension of payments takes place, among other things. in the context of the work on parliamentary printing, Seym No 1042. There's work going on, there's a team set up, and that's why it's suspended. Nevertheless, I understand all the arguments that you have raised. On the other hand, with regard to the question concerning loans granted to the Social Insurance Fund, I would just like to say that, as far as loans are concerned, we are actually dealing more with the issue of ordering this situation. That is to say, it is clear that as far as pension obligations are concerned, these are liabilities due to the Treasury. Therefore, if we are faced with a situation where contributions to the Social Insurance Fund are not or are not sufficient to cover these commitments, in addition, we are mobilising grants from budgetary resources. This loan and this debt status of the Social Insurance Fund vis-à-vis the State Treasury for loans granted from the budget appropriations are from 2014 to 2016 and the repayment date, as I said, is 31 March 2019. The total amount I was talking about is 7 174 145,000. zł. In short, because he asked where such a loan was coming from and what years it was going to be: of course, we would like to sort things out and talk about the fact that if there were no such funds from the contributions, then these funds would simply be from subsidies from the state budget. And we consistently pursue this policy. [[To hide the budget deficit.]] The question I have written is about the consequences of freezing an occupational social benefit fund, i.e. the financial implications for the State budget for this purpose. I can say that according to the calculations, the freezing alone is at least PLN 250 million. With regard to the freezing of an occupational social benefit fund, this is the result. The question about jobs and all the pay issues. I just want to remind you that in the Around Budget Act, we have proposed such a solution, according to which also in the public finance sector, pay may be increased if these funds come from European Union funds, i.e. co-financing of projects from EU funds. The second thing is that there are issues... The increase in salaries in agencies or other entities may be due to economic activity. It is therefore possible to increase remuneration unless it has implications for the following years. There was also a question about additional jobs. I can only briefly say that when it comes to the extra jobs themselves, e.g. In the courts, that's 2,000. new jobs - over 100 million, 104 924 thousand. zł - and increase in employment, for example in the service of monument conservators, in voivodships. Here, too, we are looking at an increase in the salary fund, which is over 40 additional jobs. So that I can answer the question that has been raised here about the implementation of the tasks imposed on the various actors and whether they can be carried out in the context of the freezing of wages, I can answer that these additional posts, where there are new tasks, are provided for in the Budget Act and this is indeed taken into account. One more thing. Namely, the amount in terms of defence expenditure fell here in the context of the possibility to finance also the tasks of the Minister of Administration and Home Affairs. She referred to the fact that this is from the MON budget for next year, which has increased significantly, because by nearly 4 billion, it is planned to finance precisely these tasks in the field of the Minister of Administration and Home Affairs. I just want to remind you that this is intended for the implementation of these projects, that is transport equipment or weapons, which can be used in a situation of war by the military as well. Therefore, here I would not see any discrepancies according to NATO methodology. Also those items that are proposed here are recognised by the NATO methodology as defensive expenditure. The same is true when it comes to financing this Helicopter Service of Medical Rescue. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u549	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Press Law (Prints 1935 and 1938). I will ask Mr Czabański to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u550	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate of the Republic of Poland introduced an amendment, actually two amendments. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 in point 9 and in Article. 49b in the mouth. 1 is replaced by the words "literally quoted' in paragraph 1. 2 the words "literally quoted' shall be replaced by "an expression identical to that given by the person providing the information'. It was about clarifying the provisions in the bill. The Committee on Culture and Media unanimously approved these amendments by the Senate. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u551	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. First Mrs Joanna Lichocka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u552	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Law and Justice support this proposal introduced by the Senate. We do not see this controversy, it is indeed a clarification of the definition of a literally quoted statement. She seems to be needed. So that Law and Justice support this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u553	Thank you very much, Member. Now Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u554	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the Senate introduced a purely legislative amendment, and even the senator present at the committee's meeting admitted that they were legislators... Precision in laws is desirable. I think it is very difficult for these amendments - with which, as the whole committee agreed unanimously, I think, the Sejm will agree - to spend as much time as three minutes, but it is a good opportunity to remind that we are trying to change the Press Law in small steps. This time the authors of this law, it is a government law, emphasizes that it is about clearing the texts of 1983 from some of the raids of the Polish People's Republic, even in terms of the name itself, and at the same time it is a clarification of certain rules concerning the authorization of speeches, here it was necessary to implement the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. For my part, I will take this opportunity to say that my club is the most valuable in this amendment and considers the amendments made at the request of the Civic Platform, which, however, give journalists some manoeuvre and freedom. A journalist may refuse to follow a command that does not... interferes with the principle of integrity or objectivity, and a journalist may also refuse to publish a text that has been subjected to far-reaching modifications. I think it's a record that serves freedom of speech. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u555	Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u556	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 in relation to the Senate's report on the Law amending the Press Law Act. In fact, the amendments are uncontroversial, so it is actually difficult to disagree with them, and consequently, the Kukiz Club recommends its Members to vote against the rejection of these amendments by the Senate, i.e. in favour of their adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u557	Thank you very much. The votes of the other clubs have been notified in writing. No one came forward to ask questions. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u558	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the report of the Senate Senate on the Law amending the Press Law, in print No. 1935 and 1938. The revision of the Press Law is a great opportunity to recall the first article of this act. It reads: "Press, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, enjoys freedom of expression and realizes the right of citizens to inform them honestly, public disclosure and social control and criticism. Since the current power took control of public broadcasters on Polish Television and Polish Radio, we have observed a notorious break Not only Press Law, but also all standards, and crossing the boundaries of ordinary human decency. National media publishing and information programs are a festival of awkward propaganda and pushy promotion of the vision of the ruling party only. The media, whose task is reliable information, but also education and shaping of social tastes, broadcasts soaked in xenophobia, sexism, devoid of good taste, which is the last recital by Jan Pietrzak at the festival of the Polish song in Opole. The Modern Posel Club supports the amendments introduced by the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u559	The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party supports the draft amendment to the Press Law Act. The Senate amendments are language and stylistic amendments. In our view, however, the Press Law requires much deeper changes than the provisions discussed today. The aim is to protect public media and journalists from the political situation in which they are presently in the future. It's impossible in this term, but it's worth getting ready for today.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u560	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report by the Senate on the Law amending the Press Law. The aim of the submitted project was to remove outdated concepts, among others. The Polish People's Republic, as well as the government authorities that do not exist today. Once again, I would like to stress in this House that it is not justified that, after so many years since the change of the political system, we should continue to refer to the provisions of the Polish People's Republic. The proposed bill will introduce detailed authorisation regulations, among others. a journalist will not have to obtain authorization in the event of a public statement. A person who wishes to exercise this right will be obliged to report this fact to a journalist, while a journalist is obliged to inform the person giving the information about his or her rights. The rules introduced will facilitate the work of journalists, reduce responsibility and prevent the use of the right of authorisation to block the press. The earlier provisions of the Act could have affected the delay in the flow of relevant information from a social point of view. At the second reading in the Sejm, an amendment was tabled and adopted granting the journalist the right to refuse to carry out a work order when it is expected to produce a publication which violates the principles of integrity, objectivity or professional standards, as well as the right not to agree to the publication of a material which, following the drafting changes, changes the meaning and pronunciation of the version drawn up by the journalist. We fully support her. One amendment was introduced during the debate on the draft law in the Senate. The amendment is intended to ensure consistency between the substantive provision and the sanctioning provision. We believe that the amendment proposed by the Senate is worthy of support. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u561	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases (Prints No. 1936 and 1957). I ask Mrs Ursula Rusecka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u562	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to present a report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases. On 20 October 2017, the Marshal of the Sejm sent the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after considering the resolution at today's meeting, asks the High Sejm to accept the Senate's amendments. The amendments are purely linguistic, editorial and, at the same time, note that amendments 1 to 4 should be voted together. The report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy is in print 1957. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u563	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Barbara Bartus, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u564	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the report of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases, contained in the Parliamentary Printing No 1957. The amendment of the Law adopted by the Sejm aims to codify the modalities and rules for the financing from the accident fund of activities related to the prevention of accidents at work and occupational diseases. The Act adopted contains a number of necessary elements that will actually put together the process of spending measures to prevent accidents at work and occupational diseases. The Act stabilizes the amount of expenditure provided for in the Social Insurance Fund's financial plan for accident prevention by setting it at 1% due accident insurance contributions. It sets out the procedure, rules and procedure of appeal for competitions for contributors who apply for funding for actions aimed at maintaining their working capacity throughout their working life. Another element of the law adopted is the conditions that the payer must fulfil in order to apply for funding under the competition. The Act also regulates the process of identifying the entity assisting the Social Insurance Institution in the implementation of accident prevention and lays down the principles of its cooperation with the Social Insurance Institution. It is worth noting that the solutions put in place do not have any additional financial implications. Resolutiond by the Sejm on 29 September this year. The law amending the Social Insurance Act for accidents at work and occupational diseases has been positively assessed by the Senate. The four amendments tabled by the Senate are linguistic and editorial. They aim primarily at improving the legibility and quality of the legislative act. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My club, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, supports the amendments made by the Senate and will vote against them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u565	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Izabela Mrzygłocka made her statement in writing. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u566	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 on the report of the Senate's resolution on the Act amending the Act on Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases. Ladies and gentlemen! As my previous speaker has already said, these are non-controversial changes - few amendments of a legislative, linguistic nature. Therefore, the Kukiz Club 15 recommends that its Members vote against the rejection of these Senate amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u567	Thank you very much. Now, Mr Michał Jaros, the Modern Club. [[Voices from the hall: There it is, there it is.]] The Member has made it. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u568	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to present a position on the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases, Print No 1936 and 1957. The Act deals with standardization at the level of the rules of the generally applicable rules and procedures for granting public funding by the Social Insurance Institution. accident prevention and assignment of tasks to the Central Institute for Labour Protection concerning the substantive assessment of projects in this area. The Senate of the Republic of Poland introduced four amendments to the law adopted by the Sejm on 27 September, but these were language and editorial amendments, not substantive, e.g. the terms "specific actions' have been replaced by "executing certain activities' and the word "active' has been replaced by the word "created'. Today, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs has adopted the amendments of the Senate and proposes that they be adopted by the Sejm. The draft law allows for full legal regulation of the generally applicable rules and procedures for granting public benefits. The planned changes in the law aim to improve safety in the working environment. This is extremely important, and any action that can reduce the risk of work or work will be supported by the Modern. The Modern Club is in favour of the committee's report on the adoption of the Senate Act amending the Act on Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u569	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Zwierzan presented her speech in writing. Thus, the list of members of the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 26 October this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Please, Mr Simon Giżyński, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u570	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Inspired by Constant Ildefons Galczyński autobiographical recitations of Richard from the recent press conference. The horse would also start talking, If you give him a hundred zlotys, He'd have aspirations, too. ambitions and longings; and even bats, who hang on their head, They'd write comedies-- What kind of a man is that? You, then. , o Muzo my, inspire me with sweet rhyme - Maybe I'm not the first one here. But it's not the last! And what visions I have, concepts, problems! It's not surprising at all. I'm so rich. Then how can I not speak here? Then how can I? Mr. Gold... The horse would also start talking, If you give him a hundred zlotys. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u571	Thank you. The statement will now be made by Anna Cicholska, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u572	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On 19 and 20 October, the Naukobus came to Ciechanów. It is a mobile exhibition with more than 20 exhibits that can be touched, tested. It is a way to reach students from villages, cities and small towns, where access to attractive forms of education is difficult. By combining science and fun, children will carry out experiments in physics, will be able to learn the secrets of the human body, and will also use mathematics in practice. This is all under the eye of animators from the Copernicus Science Centre in Warsaw. Naukobus visited primary schools no. 3 and no. 7. By engaging students in experiments, they were aroused by curiosity and were inspired to gain their own knowledge. Presentations in the form of fun enjoyed great interest not only in children but also in teachers. About $1,000. children had the opportunity to take part in this interesting, innovative educational event. It was the first visit of this kind in Ciechanów, which aroused great interest. Its reception by pupils and teachers in particular demonstrates the need for such projects to be carried out in small centres. This is the establishment of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. The programmes of the "Sciencebus', the "University of the Young Explorer' and the "Support of universities of the third century' are so-called programmes. A strategy for Science and Higher Education. The advantage of these programs is the popularization of science, discoveries and contributions of Polish scientists among different age groups. The program is aimed at the youngest, most absorbent group, which is located at the beginning of the educational path. Its proper direction and preparation is an opportunity for the future. The future of our homeland and society in building its strength and importance in Europe and the world. Here I would like to thank Minister Jarosław Gowin and all those who worked in the creation and implementation of the "Nukobus" programme. With the opportunity to observe how this event was received in Ciechanów, I am sure that this type of work with children and young people is intentional. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u573	Mrs Barbara Bartus, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u574	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In my statement, I would like to address the extremely important issues of the need to settle the scandals of previous years and the need for economic recovery so-called. Local Poland, district Poland. I would like to emphasise the need to restore the degraded economic centers after 1989. In many places of Poland a good change is really already visible. I'll mention, for example, coal mines or shipyards. Unfortunately, not everywhere yet. As a Member of the 14th District, I would like to draw attention to my territory, especially the situation of Gorlic. The process of folding local Poland in the economic aspect of Gorlice's land can be seen most fully on the example of the former Glinik Oil and Mining Machinery Factory, today's Gorlice branch of Famur. A state-owned company employing several thousand employees today employs less than 500 people. In practice, this is how the Balcerowiczian idea of modernising large industrial plants was illustrated. The phenomenon of total and at the same time scandalous annihilation of local plants in Poland can be seen equally clearly on the example of the tragic fate of the former oil refinery Glimar in Gorlice. This one of the world's oldest oil refinery, once employing about 700 workers, covering about 70 hectares of land with its own gas station network, was put into bankruptcy at the beginning of 2005 after nearly 90% a new investment, a modern refinery installation, so-called hydro-complexe. The lack of funds to complete it was also a pretext for putting Glimar into bankruptcy. As a result of a very strange bankruptcy process, the state at present is a non-existent ghost bet. The very expensive installation of the hydro-complexe is irretrievably destroyed, denominated to the value of scrap. In addition, it is not entirely clear who is the real owner of the former refinery. Even a few years ago, an armed attack took place between two security companies representing entities claiming ownership of the site. As a complement to this dramatic picture, it is worth adding that a few months ago vast amounts of undetermined chemicals were discovered imported and stored illegally in that former refinery. Slightly simplifying, Gorlice was bankrupted by the refinery, which is a world-wide incident, and instead, the inhabitants were presented with a ticking ecological bomb. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Here I would like to thank all the ministers of the current government who have actively responded to my interventions on the former Glimar, for their efforts so far to solve important problems, including trying to settle those responsible for such a scandalous state of affairs, and to outline a future perspective for this kind of monument to the functioning of the theoretical state. I hope that there has been a mechanism that will prove to the inhabitants of Gorlice that the Polish state is on the side of its citizens, and that the achievements of many generations that have been wasted over the past years will not be completely destroyed. Therefore, thanking the ministers and all the state services for their work to solve the problems that have grown around the former Glimar refinery, while at the same time asking to restore hope to the people of the Gorlické district that their small homeland will be lifted from economic marazzo, and hundreds of young Poles will not be forced to emigrate economically. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On these Gorlice examples I would like to show how crucial and desirable it is to be persistent and consistent implementation of a difficult programme of geographically sustainable reindustrialization of Poland. This is what millions of our countrymen expect. We need to restore hope and a sense of justice to these people. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u575	Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u576	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In June 2018, Russia will host the World Football Championship of Men. These championships have attracted millions of fans from all over the world for years. One of the host cities in 2018 will be Kaliningrad, a city in Russia a few dozen kilometres from the Polish border. The ideal hotel base for fans is Gdańsk, which is located just a few dozen kilometres from Kaliningrad, on which both sides can benefit economically. The Polish government should already make efforts so that Poles can benefit economically from the uniform in Russia. The most important obstacle, which will significantly impede the crossing of the Polish-Russian border, is the failure to restore the local border traffic between Poland and the Kaliningrad region. In July 2016, the Government of Law and Justice decided to suspend the movement in force for several years, which was a major facilitation. Minister Błaszczak in July Ub. he argued to Poles that the suspension of the local border traffic is temporary and is connected only with events taking place in Poland - the NATO Summit and World Youth Day. Unfortunately, it's not. To the detriment of Polish entrepreneurs from Pomorskie and Warmia-Mazury voivodships, a small border movement was still not restored. Minister! The perfect opportunity to restore it could be the next year's soccer championship. This is what Poles and Russians would benefit from in a double way. Firstly, inhabitants of Pomorskie and Warmia-Mazurskie voivodships could travel to Kaliningrad region without obstacles, e.g. The Russians could come to Poland without a problem. I ask the Minister to be kind again to consider the request of our voivodships, as well as our fellow Members, and to rethink the restoration of the local border traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u577	Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u578	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, a joyful ceremony took place at the embassy of the Republic of Hungary, where several Poles were awarded the award given by the President of the Republic of Hungary to Mr János...der. One of the marks was the marshal himself, and I congratulate you very much. I also thank Ambassador Kovács for handing over these decorations to our fellow countrymen. On the other hand, it is important for this House to hear words about an endless, 1000 years of Polish-Hungarian friendship. Well, we're in a very special time right now. There are two specific dates, basically three, but two that are easier to remember: March 23rd and October 23rd. 23 March is the Day of Polish-Hungarian Friendship, when we joyfully remember our entire history. A story sometimes difficult, but above all a story, which makes it clear that Hungarians can always count on our help, and vice versa, we have the conviction, the conviction as Poles, that we can count on Hungarian brothers too if necessary. As for this period, which we have now, the time from 23 October, according to different dates until 4 or 10 November, this is the period so called. the Hungarian revolution, which was a prostrate to the so-called "Hungarian Revolution." June 56 in Poznań, when the Hungarians decided to follow the Poles and oppose the communist oppressors. It ended tragically, but also gloriously, because the Communists were finally defeated. And this difficult time, the difficult time of the Hungarian revolution in 1956, was a time when once again in a completely disorganized, bottom-up, spontaneous Poles had the opportunity to demonstrate this gesture of friendship, brotherhood, sending help to our Hungarian brothers, mainly in the form of blood, because there was bloodshed there. For this reason, I wanted to emphasize this particular time we are in. I hope that the Polish public will not miss the issue of the Hungarian Revolution, this October of 1956, as well as the anniversary of Poznań's June, which we celebrated a few months ago. I do not want to dwell too long on the Polish-Hungarian friendship, but I think it is necessary to repeat when we are talking about these exceptional relations, absolutely exceptional relationships on a global scale, the mention of the words of Prime Minister Pál Teleki, who, during World War II, declared that it is a matter of honor for the Hungarian Government and Hungarians to never act against Poles when they tried to force their ally to do so. Thank you for that, thank you for that, and we will always remember that. I'm gonna end with a slogan known to everyone, but maybe surprising, because I'm not gonna speak Hungarian here: Long live the Polish-Hungarian friendship! Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-26-sejm-50-2.u579	That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 27 October 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 23 min 12]]
