ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u1	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 9, - Economy and Development - h.m. 9, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 10, - Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 10, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Administration and Home Affairs together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 11, - Infrastructure - hour 11, - Public Finance - hour. 12, - Culture and Media - hour 12, - Public Finance - hour. 13, - Foreign Affairs - hour 13, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 14, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 14, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 15, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 16, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16, - Health-- hour. 17, - Health together with the National Defence Commission - at 3 p.m. 19. The following parliamentary teams will also be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: County Hospitals - hour 10, - Parliamentary Group for: explanation of irregularities in the National Cooperative Credit and Savings Fund - hour 10, - Parliamentary Team of Members and Sympathists of the Light-Life Movement, Catholic Action and the Association of Catholic Families - hour. 10, - Parliamentary Group for: Sports bridge - hour 10, - Parliamentary Group for: Police - hour 11, - Parliamentary team on geodetic law and real estate distinctions - h.m. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: St. John Paul II's Heritages - 3 p.m. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Africa - hour 2.30 p.m., - Parliamentary Group for Catholic Social Science - at 10 p.m. 15, - Parliamentary Group for: promotion of healthy physical activity in the society of Nordic walking - h. 5:30 p.m., - Parliamentary Group for: Supporting the Environment Children of War - hour 19. President of the Parliamentary Group on Mrs Lydia Gądek, Mrs Lydia Gądek, invites you to the Flu Forum debate at 3 p.m. 11 in room 118 and for free influenza vaccinations in room 152 in the new House of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u2	Thank you very much. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Environmental Law. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Health Commission has submitted a report on a government draft law on specific solutions for improving the quality and accessibility of healthcare services. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. The first question was formulated by Ms Anna April, Mr Marek Suski, Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz, Mr Dariusz Bąk and Mr Andrzej Costowniak from Law and Justice on the process of creating the Territorial Defence Army. The question is addressed to the Minister of National Defence. I ask Mrs Anna April to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u3	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! The territorial defence forces, i.e. the fifth type of Armed Forces, alongside the ground, air, special forces and the Navy, are complementary and at the same time complementary to the defence potential of Poland. The territorial defence forces also have a response to natural disasters or disasters among their tasks. The storm, which passed on 11 and 12 August in the Belt from Lower Silesia through Wielkopolska, Kujawy by Pomerania Gdansk and Warmia, realized that in such dramatic, massive crisis situations, inhabitants of areas affected by the cataclysm also need support of troops, especially the created Territorial Defence Forces. Therefore, I have the following question: How is the process of creating a brigade of territorial defence forces progressing? How is cooperation with local governments in terms of the location of the brigades? Are there obstacles to this cooperation? If so, what is it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u4	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Minister of National Defence, Mr Antoni Macierewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u5	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! Membership! The territorial defence forces were set up 9 months ago, and at present, they are counting over 5,000. soldiers, including 4,000. soldiers of territorial military service and more than 1 000. soldiers of professional military service. They are organized today mainly in three brigades of the eastern wall with location in Białystok, Suwałki, Łomża and Hajnowce, as well as Dęblin, Biała Podlaskie, Chełma, Rzeszów, Nisko, Dębica, Jarosław and Sanoku. These are brigades bearing the names of heroes fighting for independence from the period of World War II and the period of communist occupation, General Liniarski, Dekutowski and Ciepliński. These troops, which are already organized, which I am talking about, are going through exercises that last about, over 45, 48 days a year, exercises that are fully capable of preparing them for effective primary service. At the moment we are also completing and organizing brigades in central Polish voivodships, i.e. in warmińsko-mazurskie and mazowieckie voivodships. I mean, the headquarters of these brigades and troops will be Olsztyn, Elk, Morag, Braniewo and Giżycko, when it comes to 4. Warmia-Mazury Territorial Defence Brigade; 5. The Mazowiecka Territorial Defence Brigade will be the headquarters of Ciechanów, Komorowo, Siedlce and Zegra, and in 6. Mazovian Territorial Defence Brigade - Radom, Pomiechówek, Grójec, Książnica and Płock. This does not, of course, exhaust all the locations of the Territorial Defence Forces, but points to the main places where they will be stationed. As far as the personnel composition is concerned, the average age of the soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army is 30 and 32 years of age, with nearly 30% of the soldiers counting around 25 years old, the oldest 40 years old. About 10 and 12% All the soldiers in the Territorial Defense Army are women. That's more or less the organizational state. By the end of 2019 we want to appoint 17 brigades of the Territorial Defence Army. This deadline is not at stake today. As regards the issue of cooperation with local governments in the area of the location of the brigades and the acquisition of real estate, cooperation in various projects, it is, in general, working very well. More than 240 reconnaissances were carried out to identify the locations of the territorial defence troops. The infrastructure has been reviewed, mainly military infrastructure, i.e. 114 complexes, 41 properties remaining in the resources of the Military Property Agency, 56 properties proposed by local government units and 11 properties reported by private owners. Unfortunately, these issues sometimes face various problems and problems. The biggest concern was the Starogard of Gdańsk and the Pomeranian Voivodeship, which unfortunately resulted in quite tragic consequences during the recent storm. The City Council of Starogard did not have time to form individuals, and therefore the Territorial Defence Army could not be used at a time when there was a great need for this during recent dramatic events. Unfortunately, we also have a similar situation in Radom, where it was opposed, the city authorities opposed the originally chosen location on the street. Struga. We are not able to overcome such opposition in any way, of course, because it is [[♪ The bell ♪]] voluntary, it is the will of the city authorities. We assume that good cooperation with local governments is the foundation of the development of the Territorial Defence Army, which are primarily...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u6	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u7	...focused on local interaction. I hope...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u8	I'm asking you to ask me a question...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u9	Mr. Marshal, the last...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u10	I will gladly extend the time for your answer to the next question. There'll be an opportunity for that in a minute. I would ask you to ask Mr Skurkiewicz for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u11	I just want to say that in all other cases this interaction is excellent.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u12	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! These questions about the creation of the Territorial Defence Army and cooperation with local governments are not accidental. We are Members of the Radom Land, Radom Members, and we are keenly interested in these issues. The Minister rightly pointed out that there are local governments, especially where the government's helm holds the Civic Platform, where politicians of the Civic Platform are wielding the rule of government and where there are permanent problems. Such an example, apart from the Oldgard, is, of course, the city of Radom. We're sorry about that. Therefore, Minister, our questions and our concern arise. The President of Radom would rather tear down the courthouse than hand it over to the territorial defence forces to be formed. The 6th Brigade was to be formed by the end of 2017. I understand there are delays, but we don't give up. And here's another question to the Minister: How do you see the possibility of solving this problem? Is this brigade being created and will it function in Radom? And what about the people who reported access to serve their country as part of the Territorial Defence Army? By delays, perhaps these people will have to be re-examined, incorporated into the Territorial Defence Army. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u13	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Mr. Speaker! Indeed, such accidents have occurred. As I said, it concerns Starogard and, unfortunately, the city of Radom. I am all the more surprised that the Territorial Defence Forces took part, for example. recently in organizing an excellent event, such as Air Show Radom 2017, as well as other military formations. I would like to thank the Radom Members, through whom the initiative took place. Under no circumstances will we give up the formation of the Territorial Defence Army also in Radom. The site was chosen as the seat of the site 42. School Air Base in Radom. And that's where the commanding officer of the territorial defence force of this area will be located. Indeed, it may be a month or two late to form this unit in Radom, but it will not eliminate it. I hope that the population, that the people of Radom will make it clear to the proper authorities how necessary and effective the Territorial Defence Forces are. I repeat: Under no circumstances will this prevent the formation of these troops in Radom, as well as in other areas of the Republic of Poland. I want to say it again. The President rightly stressed that this has happened twice so far, and only in those places where the authorities are representatives of the opposition parties, but only in these two places, Mr President, only in these two places, Mr President. In other cases, these political differences can move on to the agenda. Representatives of the opposition party also understand the importance of the functions performed by the Territorial Defence Forces. I'm sorry to say that Starogard and Radom are bad examples, but we can handle it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u15	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the second question, which was formulated by Mr Zofia Czernow and Ms Joanna Frydrych of the Civic Platform, on the gross underfinancing of social rehabilitation tasks this year, in particular supporting and orthopaedic measures. The question is addressed to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. I would like to ask Mrs Zofia Czernow for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u16	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! The financial limits transferred to the counties of the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities for 2017 are generally about 20% lower than in the previous year and almost twice lower than in previous years. This appropriation is intended to cover occupational rehabilitation and social rehabilitation, including in particular the financing of auxiliary and orthopaedic supplies. The needs for social rehabilitation are growing avalanchely. Despite the large shortage already at the beginning of the year, in June and July this year. Most of the powiats received a decision from the State Fund for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities to further reduce the subsidy scale for 2017. These were shocking decisions, because most of the counties have already distributed these funds. Such a dramatic situation in the district help centers of the family has not yet been in place. In most counties - and I say this on the basis of a field check - there is no money left to finance the purchase of auxiliary and orthopaedic funds. These measures are mainly needed for chronically and obstetrically ill people. There is also no funding for any very urgent need to remove architectural barriers. That's what happened in August. It's September. There are no changes in this respect. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister: Do you know this problem and how do you intend to solve it? Will the counties receive additional funding for these tasks from the state fund or from the budget in the near future? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why are social issues so important to people who are obsessively ill for an indefinite period of time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u17	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Krzysztof Michałkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u18	Minister! Mr. Messengers! First of all, I wanted to thank you for putting such an important problem into the context of current questions. We can talk today about the situation of people with disabilities. It is also an opportunity to remind and explain certain things. First of all, it is the counties under the District Government Act that have responsibilities and tasks relating to the support of persons with disabilities. Disabled persons, like all other residents of the county, are residents, citizens of the county and meeting their needs, tasks defined by other laws, public tasks to them should be carried out. I do not know how you have the data, but our official data shows that in 2017, the counties that receive funding from PFRON for the tasks they carry out received funds in a significantly larger way than in previous years. According to my data, in 2014 and 2015 the powiats received: 712 585 thousand. in 2015, 712 586 thousand In 2014, i.e. 712 million received in 2014 and 2015, 712 585 thousand. PLN for this was still in 2015. In 2016, they received 753 540 thousand, while in 2017 they received 764 317 thousand. According to these figures, 764 317 thousand. is not less than 753 540 thousand, as it was in the previous year, but it is also clearly higher than what was in previous years. I'm thinking years... In fact, there was a dulling in 2009 and 2010 when it comes to the transfer of funds. However, of course, these tasks, which the county carries out, are much wider than that mentioned by the Member. First of all, among the mandatory tasks which must be financed by the algorithm and financed by the county, are: financing the creation and maintenance of workshops for occupational therapy, occupational activities, various types of occupational and social rehabilitation, including the financing of products - it is already called otherwise - medical, which are actually financed and for people with disabilities, and for patients, and for people who are chronically ill with the National Health Fund. On the other hand, the county has the possibility to finance some of them, for which costs are so high that they constitute a barrier to those in need. What the county finances, whether by its own resources or by its algorithm, comes from the decision of the county council. It is up to the county council to decide what tasks it wants to finance in a given year and how much money it will spend. Of course, he must take into account how well it is written in the article. 35a Act on Rehabilitation, strategy for solving social problems, district action programmes for people with disabilities in terms of identified needs and, depending on this, transfer funds. What you have asked, of course, is also an algorithm that is calculated and which we do not really have the opportunity to change. He, on the one hand, follows the financial plan of PFRON, which is part of the state budget, which we, as Members of Parliament, are adopting, and on the other hand, it follows from an algorithm that is quite complex, which takes into account in every county the number of people with disabilities, the number of people with disabilities, looking for jobs, including children with disabilities. The algorithm is complicated, but in the algorithm is also the amount that we have planned for these tasks in the budget in the PFRON financial plan. These data, which I mentioned, are also not taken from the ceiling, are received from the Central Statistical Office. When it comes to quantity e.g. people with disabilities unemployed, looking for a job, are taken from the previous 3 months and are transferred by the Central Statistical Office. In fact, this year there was a coincidence that the first version of the CSO provided some other data, and in the second it corrected it, where it was actually necessary in some counties to correct these amounts. These amounts, of course, do not correspond to what you are talking about. For example, and alphabetically, so that it was not that selected: the district of Bolesławiecki got from the algorithm 1 358 186 zł, had to reduce this amount by 47 thousand, 1 358 047 zł it will definitely not be 20%. Of course, such an adjustment concerned a smaller number, few counties. The larger number of powiats got larger amounts. The next district, Głogowski, who got PLN 1 953,552, received an adjustment, received an additional PLN 2591. So, in fact, these differences were small, but actually they were. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This adjustment was due to the fact that the CSO had submitted an adjustment which had to be taken into account, but it did not have a fundamental impact on the financing of...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u19	Thank you, Minister. Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Krzysztof Michałkiewicz: ...the county's tasks concerning people with disabilities. And I would like to ask you an additional question from Mrs Joanna Frydrych.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u20	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister, thank you for noticing at all the problem that exists in relation to the needs of people with disabilities. However, the Minister has not pointed out the solution to this problem, but the Minister here has merely said what tasks belong to the county. We know this well and the counties carry out these tasks, but the sick and disabled people have been pushed into the margin in a unique way at the present time. These measures, which have been limited, are in the amount of 200, 300 and even 400 thousand. for the county. These are facts, Minister. In fact, it lacks the elimination of architectural barriers, for rehabilitation holidays, not to mention basic materials for people just chronically and obsessively sick. This response from the Minister does not indicate this solution. I just have questions. Why is this group of Poles treated so badly? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why do sick and disabled people have limited help? And they're the ones who want us to help them. Since the government enjoys such a good financial condition of the state, it should above all support those most in need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u21	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Krzysztof Michalkiewicz. [[It's checked out in the field.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u22	If you say which county is concerned, I will, of course, state what actual and real amounts have been transferred from PFRON. However, of course - because people with disabilities listen to us - I would like to say that next year we are raising the amount of funding provided for local governments. If in 2017 local governments received - because the local government still gets money from PFRON - 930 million, the draft budget for 2018 provides 947 million, so 17 million more. We are also currently looking for additional resources and monitoring the implementation of PFRON's income plan. Let me remind you that PFRON's income is paid by employers and a subsidy from the state budget. In fact, employers' payments are higher - as you said - due to the good economic, economic situation of the country, the fall in unemployment. Employment of people with disabilities has also increased - and this needs to be highlighted as a positive aspect. On the other hand, the employment of people with disabilities is linked to funding for the salaries that people with disabilities receive, which means that here we also have an increase in expenditure from PFRON. On the other hand, if there are any free resources, we will certainly hand them over to the counties because it is the counties that are primarily concerned with meeting the needs of people with disabilities. I would like to remind you once again that the Members have asked a question concerning the sick and chronically ill, and very sick, that, of course, PFRON finances disability-related tasks. As far as tasks related to people who are seriously and obsessively ill are concerned, they are mainly financed by the National Health Fund, so that's a little bit of a question not for us. However, of course, as I said, all employees in Poland pay contributions to the National Health Fund and have the right to benefit from financing or financing the purchase of medical devices, including the supply of orthopedic items. On the other hand, PFRON in exceptional situations, if the county council so decides, may finance this supply. That's it. That's it. If your Member is determined - because all this will remain in the protocol, people with disabilities like to watch TV, listen to TV - if your Member were to say what you were thinking, then of course I would talk about the amounts that she received this year as part of the funding from PFRON. I would like to stress very strongly that in the article. 35 Act on Professional Rehabilitation [[♪ The bell ♪]] and The social and employment of people with disabilities is directly written, which is part of the tasks of local governments. These tasks also include financing assistance for the implementation of tasks for the employment of persons with disabilities. There are plenty of tasks involved in developing and implementing strategies for solving the problems of people with disabilities. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 35a is also written something that will be of particular interest to you: the funding of rehabilitation equipment, orthopedic objects, support measures granted to disabled persons under separate regulations. If there are among many powiats that carry out this task exemplaryly, they remember that among the residents of the county there are also people with disabilities, then I would like to bow down and sincerely thank them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u23	Thank you very much, Minister. We move to the third question, formulated by Mr Sitarski and Mr Chruszcz of Kukiz15, on the possibility of developing a heating network and the opportunity to reduce smog in the city of Rybnik and the district of Rybnicki in connection with the acquisition of a fish plant by the State Treasury and the cooperation of energy companies with local authorities in the comprehensive protection of the heating needs of Rybnik. The question is addressed to the Minister of Energy. I would ask you to ask Mr Sitarski for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u24	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In principle, the question concerns the recolonization of electricity and heating, energy cooperation of companies of the State Treasury also with local governments. The Polish Energy Group, PGE, signed a purchase agreement with the French company EDF regarding the purchase of Polish assets of the company. It includes eight heat and power plants, including a fish plant. I ask the question: Is the aim of the plant's development and investment in the Rybnik power plant as part of the purchase, or is it going to sell the assets of the Rybnik power plant for possible foreign capital? There are very high demand of the city of Rybnik and the neighbouring municipality for expenditures, for investments in low-carbon heating plants. I remind you that Rybnik is the city with the highest concentration of smog in Poland at the turn of 2016 and 2017 What will be the cooperation of energy companies with local governments in the comprehensive protection of the heat needs of Rybnik and the region? And another question. What are the chances of supplying Rybnik with heat from electricity production? What actions are and will be taken to create new strands of heat in the area of Rybnik and neighbouring municipalities? What investments are planned or designed? Is the cooperation of the new owner also taken into account with district heating plants, e.g. Glory, Rydult Marcel? What benefits will be achieved when the fishermen start connecting to the district heating network? How will the new owner and the state encourage citizens to do so? When will the owners of homes, companies, public institutions be able to join the district heating network? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u25	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at Andrzej Piotrowski's Ministry of Energy.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Speaker! In fact, the power plant in Rybnik is still the property of the French entity EDF. On 19 May 2017, an agreement was concluded on the comprehensive sale of entire EDF operations in Poland of the Polish Energy Group. On the other hand, the suspension conditions were included in this agreement, so the agreement of the Minister of Energy, which has already been granted, was necessary and the agreement of the UOKiK is necessary. For all we know, there are some problems at the moment that this purchase will result in too much concentration in PGE. Some compensatory measures are being considered. It requires talking and finding a solution. However, this does not pose a greater threat to the return, let's call it, for the management by Polish entities of the power plant in Rybnik, because it is a system power plant. There is an electrical capacity of 1775 MW. This is the power that is necessary in the energy system. At the same time, it is a kind of experience that in Poland such manufacturing units cannot be subjected to unthinkable privatisation. It seemed that entrusting this to a company dependent on the French Government did not create danger. In the course of the revision of the strategy by EDF, we encountered a situation in which the proposals of the companies that were supposed to cover this, to be clear, raised huge doubts and we had some kind of stress, what would happen if it were taken over by the owner who would not be interested in continuing the operation of this power plant. In Poland, the loss of such power would mean serious perturbations and energy shortages in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, on the other hand, power plants, especially those producing coal electricity, are currently under very strong pressure in terms of emissions. One method of eliminating this emission is cogeneration. In Rybnik there is already a little use of non-replaceable heat. At this point, approximately 10 MW of thermal capacity is used, used for buildings located on the site of the plant and in the premises of the employees. In fact, from the point of view of the company, this is very cheap energy, otherwise this heat would have to be emitted into the environment. On the other hand, as far as the possibility of cooperation with the city is concerned, the district heating network is managed by the Heat Energy Company Jastrzębie-Zdrój. It was purchased by PGNiG Termik on 28 April 2016. As far as we know, PEC in Jastrzębie-Zdrój carried out a number of marketing actions aimed at potential heat consumers such as housing cooperatives and even individual customers, wanting to interest them in cooperation. Here we are dealing with a kind of paradox. Rybnik does not belong to particularly wealthy towns, inhabited by financial bons, therefore there are a lot of buildings that are used to minimize benefits from residents. This means that it is not very clear how such a building could be adapted to the heating of the city network. The district heating company cannot enter here because it is not an area of its activity, this infrastructure inside buildings is as if already outside the scope of the district heating companies. And here it is necessary not to intervene as much as the cooperation of the local government, which can create the conditions for this company to cooperate more easily with the management of the blocks, especially the municipal blocks, because there is the biggest problem, but also others. Ladies and gentlemen, what are the facts? It's all so-called. linear investments, very capital intensive and therefore very difficult to achieve profitability. Knowing this, we have channeled quite significant European resources precisely to help investment in the heat grid, precisely in cogeneration. The fact is that both the Rybnik power plant and the local government have not so far applied, to our knowledge, for funding the expansion of the heating network from the European funds at the disposal of the Minister for Energy. We do not know if there have been any attempts to use regional programmes, but according to our information also they [[♪ The bell ♪]] It wasn't.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u27	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Andrzej Piotrowski: Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna be done here because time is running out. Minister, may we allow you to ask an additional question, and then you will speak. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Andrzej Piotrowski: Sorry, I didn't hear the beginning. I would ask the Member for an additional question, and then the Minister can answer it longer. Please, Mr Sitarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u28	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! If I understand correctly, Rybnik's glazers did not seek structural funds for the development of district heating networks. That's how I understood it, and I'd like to hear it again because you don't want to believe it. We're still talking about the district heating grids, that it should be developed there, and in that case the city manager didn't ask for it? It's really hard for me to understand. Second thing. It has also been reported that this district heating network, which was sold to the Jastrzębski company, was to be finally heated by gas - in the city which has a coal power plant. It's a psychic, too, and here I'd like some reference from the Minister to this subject. And one last thing. What needs to be modernised in the Rybnik Power Plant and what new investments, to what extent, at what time, are needed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u29	Thank you. Please, Minister Andrzej Piotrowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u30	I don't know the details of the city's plans when it comes to so-called. financial installation. We have checked in the Ministry, we do not have such requests, therefore they were not submitted, which does not mean that there is no such possibility. On the other hand, we carried out research on whether it is possible in some short time horizon to supply energy from the Rybnik Power Plant to the district heating network. It's possible. This requires investment - the extraction of this heat. There is a need for about 80 thermal megawatts, so this is not a trifle compared to the currently used ten. On the other hand, in the perspective of 2022, 2021, I think this is an investment that could already be considered operational if it had actually started at the moment. We have unofficial information that PEC Hawks-Zdrój is conducting discussions with EDF on the possibility of providing heat. There is a question of building a bus line about 4 km long. It is an investment that requires certain measures. However, I stress that this heat from cogeneration is a very attractive heat, but investment in linear infrastructure, in district heating networks still needs to be done, investment in heating equipment in homes also needs to be done. The biggest financial problem in our assessment will be these endings of the network with citizens. It is easier to build in blocks, the most expensive is in individual houses, because it is a distributed network, it is relatively small to receive in relation to investment expenditure. Have I answered the Member's question? [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u31	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the next question put by Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer and Mr Witold Zembaczyński and Mr Mirosław Suchon from Modern. The question about the national party-government billboard campaign conducted by the Polish Foundation, in particular the compatibility of this campaign with the statutory objectives of the Foundation and its public funding from companies of the State Treasury. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers and will be answered by the President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture and National Heritage, Mr Piotr Gliński. I would ask you to ask Mr Witold Zembaczyński a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u32	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Prime Minister! First of all, I would like to ask: Does the foundation's activities conflict with the law on political parties? Isn't this a political party cryptofinance, a money transfer for activities aimed at promoting the political party agenda? So doesn't this move rape art. 24th and 25th Political Party Financing Act? Doesn't the members of the Board of National Foundation commit a crime in the field of action in favour of, actually, actions to the detriment of the company, transferring money to non-statutical purposes, unrelated to the promotion of Poland, because this was the intention of setting up this foundation and the statutory purpose? Isn't there a breach of the Commercial Companies Code by the Boards of State Treasury companies transferring money to the Polish National Foundation? Are the boards of these companies forced to do what is at risk of criminal liability for this movement? Did the company's activities take place under the dictation of the competent supervisory minister? Who specifically ordered the board to make such movements? Shouldn't a bid have been made to use these funds for the billboard campaign, and why was this completely omitted? Are the Foundation's statutory objectives ever fulfilled here in any way? Why does the government say the foundation isn't connected to the PiS if the head of the foundation is the head of the council club of the PiS? And another question, about an entity carrying out a billboard campaign. Did the owners of this entity, who were previously KPRM employees, have appropriate consent to take decisions relating to the establishment of this activity? Was this planned before when they were KPRM employees? When did these decisions take place? And I also wanted to ask you about the fact that you bought the domain. Whether it was bought by natural persons or by that economic operator and when [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is that what happened? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u33	Thank you very much. And please respond to the Deputy Prime Minister of the Minister for Culture and National Heritage by Mr Piotr Gliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, The question is, of course, in a particularly suggestive way, it contains a series of, to put it mildly, imprecisely and simply untrue statements, as well as a lack of certain ore-mental knowledge about the functioning of foundations in Poland, the sector of NGOs, as well as the public and political spheres. We all know that the judicial system in Poland is inefficient and inefficient. Consequently, one of the most important functions of the democratic system is not fulfilled, one of the most important functions of community-building, which is a sense of justice, a social sense of justice. This is evidenced by widespread negative assessments of the functioning of courts and the justice system, social dissatisfaction. According to the results of the CBOS survey, many years ago, but also some years ago, in 2013, for example, trust in Polish courts declared only 14% Poles. 14% - it's a pathological condition. Regardless of the fact that there are many honest judges and employees in the judicial system, as we believe, the whole results in this kind of social assessment. The independence of judges believed in the same year according to CBOS research only 22% of Poles. And for this reason, we all want as a society of Polish reforms of this system. 81% According to the CBOS survey, Poles want judicial reform this year. At the same time, this situation affects Poland's image very strongly. Directly, because bad courts testify to the bad functioning of the Polish state, but indirectly also, through the political struggle that is being carried abroad. In this fight, false, imprecise thesis, stereotypes of attempts to reform the country, as well as reform of the judicial system in Poland are used. Yeah, that's the effect of moving the political fight to the streets, as well as abroad. We want reform, and the opposition unfortunately lies about this reform and its essence abroad. That is why we should debate this in a way that is deepened with Poles, and also communicate about this situation and our efforts to reform the state, to inform Europe and the world about it. And, I think - I think, because I have no other grounds to state it more categorically - this is the essence and intention of the campaign of the Polish National Foundation. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, High Sejm, this is not, contrary to what you said, a government campaign, a party campaign. It is a campaign conducted in accordance with Polish laws and statutory records of the Polish National Foundation. She refers to two of the many purposes of this foundation, namely promotion and protection of the image of the Republic of Poland and the Polish economy. It is not even said where, whether in Poland or abroad - it is about promoting and protecting the image. We must also defend often the image of the Polish state here in Poland. Secondly, it refers to another objective, namely to support activities for economic development, because a good image of the country is also a condition for the good functioning of Polish business. At the same time, one of the basic tools for achieving goals, which are also statutoryally described in terms of the Polish National Foundation, is the organisation and financing of promotional, educational and information campaigns. And now I am. In Poland, there is a principle of autonomy of the foundation, Mr, resulting from the article. 12 Foundations Act, showing that the supervisory authority cannot interfere directly with the activities of the Foundation. This is democracy, that we have civil society, we have foundations and NGOs. Regardless of who sits in the authorities, as they are created, they have the right to autonomy. And the relationship between the government and the Polish National Foundation after its establishment and the constitution of the authorities is based only on this general supervision. Direct supervision is exercised by the board of foundations, by a body which is simply connected with this organization, and indirectly through my resort, hence my presence here, which is the body that controls general, not current supervision. I'm talking about it again. This supervision is reduced in practice in accordance with the law, and in this way my resort supervises 5,000. Foundation, to check reports. As far as I know, I received such information from the Polish National Foundation, the first report will only be in the middle of next year, because the annual report is only drawn up after a year, during the [[♪ The bell ♪]] The next six months, that's the rules. The Foundation was established 2 days before the end of the previous year, during these 2 days it did not function, so there is no report there. And I have no intention or right to interfere directly in the functioning of the Polish National Foundation.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u35	Thank you, Prime Minister. Deputy Prime Minister Piotr Gliński, Minister of Culture and National Heritage: Just one more sentence. As far as I know, the Polish National Foundation provides for a number of other activities and campaigns, including foreign campaigns on the issue of judicial reform in Poland, as well as other very interesting actions concerning the construction of Polish image abroad are being prepared. Prime Minister, I'm sorry... Deputy Prime Minister Piotr Gliński, Minister of Culture and National Heritage: Thank you very much. ...I have to follow the rules. I'd be happy to extend your answer time for the next question. Please, Mr Witold Zembaczyński, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u36	Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! Unfortunately, without answering any of my substantive questions, the Prime Minister has confirmed that we are dealing with a huge scandal, a billboard scandal, a huge scam. And it is not enough to talk about non-governmental organisations in the context of the foundation if it does not fulfil any of the marks of what the Prime Minister mentioned, since we have there in the background of PiS, Councillors of PiS and Prime Minister. Let me ask you a question: What is the promotion of Poland abroad, since it is nothing more than complaining about your own country, complaining about your own institutions? You keep saying it's unworthy to do it, and you're doing it yourself. A campaign to report to its own institutions, a campaign of executive antagonism with judicial authority. This is the campaign of attacking a certain dimension of statehood, which is the courts. This is nothing more than the rhetoric you refer to in a negative context, condemning it. This is a complaint against your own country. Is that what this promotion is? Nothing, my dear Minister, honourable Prime Minister, you don't want to fix anything, you don't want to inform anything, you just want to fight with the judiciary, using public money. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And that's a scandal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u37	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Piotr Gliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Speaker! Relax, I know that what the Polish opposition loves is searching for scandals, screaming, raising emotions, bringing these emotions to the street and abroad. [[And you're complaining about your own country.]] Mr President, please do not shout during my attempt to explain. The campaign addresses the social problem, a very important issue. I did not notice that this was a complaint against the Polish state. This is a complaint against non-functioning courts in Poland. [[The dimension of statehood.]] This should also be an area of concern for the Polish opposition. I hope it is. This is a social issue that we need to address. Very serious. And we have the right to talk about it publicly and to debate it with the Polish society and with the world. Secondly, you're talking about someone there being a member of one political party or another. Well, that's the way the world is organized, so it's not forbidden for party members to join such or other organizations. It is natural that people build their spheres of interest, that parties also build various kinds of institutions. And that's what everyone always does in democracy. It's good for democracy, because it's transparent. The law allows it. You can check it out. You can access the documents of the Foundation in accordance with the Public Information Act. There's nothing hidden here. This is an open debate about important matters of Poland. Two more points that are worth explaining, because such charges were made. I didn't have time to tell you that in the last round. The Foundation does not have public resources, sir, you should know that. The legal basis for this finding is the standard Article. The 45th Foundations Act, which does not provide for the possibility of setting up a foundation from public funds, as well as an article. 9 Public Finance Act, which categorises funders, including commercial law companies and banks, as entities which do not constitute the public finance sector. So donations made by them according to the standard art. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Public Finance Act does not constitute public revenue. It's so... [[It's cryptofinance.]] Mr President, you are interrupting me. We can discuss it like this. I didn't interrupt you, and you were insinuating, and you were basing your question on untested information, wrong information, wrong information, wrong information. I'm explaining to you right now, it's not public funds. Similarly, the foundation is not an entity which must or should apply public procurement rules. Fortunately, it's the entrepreneurs who know. This awful public procurement bill doesn't apply to everyone. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and certain actors can operate in a wider area of freedom. Well, it is this world that is organised that civil society, NGOs can be autonomous and should be autonomous in accordance with the law. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u39	Thank you, Prime Minister. I now declare a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 03 hours 10 min 08]] I'm reopening the session. We move to the fifth question, formulated by Mr Paweł Beja from the Polish People's Party, on the control of customs and treasury officials carried out during festivals and regional events, addressed to the Minister of Finance. I ask you to ask Mr Paweł's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u40	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to warmly greet the inhabitants of the municipality of Ryczywoł, the district of Obornicki, who are at the gallery at the moment, wave their hands at us. We cordially greet you. [[Applause]] And I'm getting to the point. On the basis of the article. 196 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I am asking Mr.Matthew Morawiecki, Minister of Finance, on the control of customs and treasury officials carried out during festivals and regional events. Dear Minister, in July and August 2017, during regional events organized by local governments and other social organisations there were inspections of employees of customs offices. First, civil controllers observed the positions prepared by the rural housewives' wheels, asking about various products prepared by the housewives themselves. At the moment when the person who paid for the drink at the booth came to the booth, the officials requisitioned all the bottles that were on the booth that were on the table and in the tent. The alcohol content of the bottles, according to protocol, was 25%. This example took place during the Łowicka Biesiada, which took place on 27 August 2017 in the museum in Maurzyce near Łowicz. Such checks were also carried out in other localities, e.g. in Gruczno, Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship during the Festival of Flavors, except that there the controllers appeared with a short weapon in uniforms and issued 18 mandates. I therefore ask you to answer the following questions. First of all, whose orders were the checks carried out? Secondly, how much money was brought to the Treasury by way of mandates? Thirdly, how many such actions have been carried out? Fourthly, what were the costs of carrying them out? Fifthly, whether your resort and its subordinate services want to destroy the folk traditions and customs developed by generations, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to discourage the circles of country hostesses from social activity? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u41	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Piotr Walczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u42	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Assembly Guests! Firstly, I would like to thank the Member for this question that in this building we are talking about an important problem such as the trafficking of illegal alcohol, which is important for the health and life of the Polish society. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning, if I may, I would like to draw attention to what is the situation in the case of trafficking in illegal alcohol in Poland at all. Unfortunately, by some simplification by the media, most of the Polish society believes that illegal alcohol in Poland comes from two sources: so-called. Bambling and smuggling. Ladies and gentlemen, that is not true. Smuggling and hobbling are incidental cases of illegal alcohol procurement. Unfortunately, most illegal alcohol comes from decontaminated alcohol, which is disinfected in large illegal alcohol disinfectants, alcohol disinfectants. As a curiosity, I can say that one of the methods of disinfection of one of the contaminants, e.g. Bitrex, is the use of bleach, which in each of us is located in the bathroom and in the kitchen, containing information about the danger to life and health. Ladies and gentlemen, who's doing the alcohol decontaminated? Unfortunately, this is an area controlled by organized crime. Only in the last 1.5 years has the customs and treasury service, previously customs, occupied 21 disinfectants. Seventy thousand were secured. And alcohol contaminated or decontaminated in these illegal factories. Ladies and gentlemen, the people who were detained during this illegal activity were linked to criminal crime. We've also taken drugs several times. When it comes to trafficking in illegal alcohol in our country, unfortunately after VAT fraud, after the production of illicit tobacco products and after drugs, this is the fourth source of income for illegal criminal groups, for organised crime in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, how is this alcohol distributed? First of all, it is not distributed at legal points of sale, because we as customs and treasury services regularly control these points. It is distributed mainly at marketplaces, in bazaars, but also on various kinds of open festivals where such distribution can be dealt with. Another niche distribution we have in agrotourism, for example. There, tourists believe that they drink smog, but they actually drink decontaminated alcohol, called "The Spirit of the Forest." Therefore, the National Tax Administration does not look at this aspect through the fiscal prism, but looks at this aspect through the prism of human life and health, what would happen if people at the festivals died after drinking illegal alcohol or poisoned themselves with it. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, it is in this building that laws have been passed that there is a ban on trafficking in illegal alcohol. Any officer, any employee of the National Tax Administration, obtaining information on trafficking in illegal goods, would be liable for criminal liability under Article. 231 for failure to fulfil his duties if he had not carried out his inspection. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, it is worth noting that the National Tax Administration, in addition to caring for safety and human life, our society, taking care of the state budget, also ensuring equal competition, ensures that legal economic operators, paying public-law tributes, have equal competition. In particular, there is no way to compete with illegal alcohol, given the fiscal burdens that are actually involved in these excise goods. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, after the actions that take place regularly, which I stress, as I am about to say, many associations of alcohol producers have sent thanks. And these thanks were sent before the Member's question, and it was by Polish alcohol producers who believe that sales of this kind are simply unfair competition. Therefore, it is worth noting that this kind of action also hits this segment of important business. And finally, one last thing. Ladies and gentlemen, all the actions that the honourable Member has spoken of have not been carried out by surprise. Previously, the organisers were informed of the ban on alcohol marketing. And I'll tell you more, the flyers have been handed out and it's been informed that there's going to be an inspection. Therefore, each participant knew that if it sells alcohol of unknown origin, this act may be disclosed and may be punished. As far as the specific questions of the Member are concerned, 31 mandates were issued for the amount of PLN 6600. How many actions of this kind were there? In 2016, 248 of these activities were undertaken, in 2017 - 112. So, as you can see, the number of such activities has not increased in terms of the National Tax Administration. As far as the costs of such shares are concerned, [[♪ The bell ♪]] These are the running costs of the customs and treasury service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u43	Thank you, Minister. And I ask you to ask Mr Beja for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u44	Thank you very much, Minister, for this answer. Listening to your statement, I had such a great feeling that these circles of country housewives... You were talking about organized crime, about life and health threats, about how there's a lot of alcohol in there that's decontaminated, and it's kind of homemade, using some chemical reagents. And of course I agree with this absolutely, that we must fight the grey zone, especially those who risk the lives and health of citizens, Poles. On the other hand, I think it is a good time to start the discussion, so that actually the circles of rural hostess in a fair, good, compliant way can sell their regional products, including tinctures. I think this is the beginning of this discussion. We as the Polish People's Party will propose some solutions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We ask you, Minister, to sit together and work them out so that such traditions can continue in an absolutely legal and lawful way...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u45	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u46	...to last and have its place on these kinds of festivals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u47	Thank you very much. Minister Piotr Walczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u48	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! Thank you again for these words, thank you for this support in the fight against this practice, because I stress once again - this is absolutely not about the circles of rural hostesses or people who, in fact, sometimes quite accidentally become distributors of illegal alcohol. However, the practice itself is a serious threat from the point of view of the life and health of our society and from the fiscal point of view also, and from the point of view of competitiveness. Therefore, it is undoubtedly necessary to discuss the various possibilities in this area, and this declaration I make here that it is worth talking about these other opportunities, but I also draw attention to one thing - today it is organised crime. We need to introduce regulations very carefully so that we do not really open a certain gate for organized crime groups, so that they do not yet facilitate the distribution of illegal alcohol, and thus do not hit our Polish producers of legal tinctures, legal alcohol and do not hit the state budget. I would like to point out that all these funds earned by organised crime, which is involved in the production of illegal alcohol, are unfortunately invested in further illegal activities. I would also like to point out that the opening of such an illegal brewery is also an investment. This is unfortunately also an investment, which, as you can see, is very profitable from the point of view of organised criminal groups. That is why I, on behalf of the Head of National Tax Administration, wanted to declare that we, as National Tax Administration, will fight this, but, of course, using methods suitable to the threat. I would point out that, in this particular case, no direct coercion measures were applied, no tools were used that were available to the National Tax Administration, which would be vulnerable to those who did this, let us be honest, illegal. Only the distribution of alcohol that could be dangerous to life and social health has been blocked, and those persons have been fined. I stress - here I presented the statistics - these were actually quite a small amount, so it was about prevention. Besides, this is why the National Tax Administration warns festival organizers, which is why we are conducting a wide media campaign in order to avoid, through prevention at all, the kind of behaviour which in our regulations are the criminalized behaviours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u49	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the next question, formulated by Members Jarosław Gonciusz and Wojciech Szarama from Law and Justice, on access to high-speed internet in smaller towns. The question is addressed to the Minister of Digitization. Please, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u50	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Access to high-speed internet should be natural and universal today. Unfortunately, for many years of neglect there are still municipalities, smaller towns where fast Internet is something that is not available. This causes entrepreneurs to avoid these regions, these municipalities in their plans, and thus it is much harder to develop them. I would therefore like to ask: What action is being taken by the Ministry, which will contribute to enabling the use of high-speed internet also in smaller towns? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u51	Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Digitisation of Mr Marek Zagórski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! One of the main objectives of the Ministry of Digitalization is to ensure that all citizens in Poland can access broadband Internet. In line with the objectives set out in the Digital Agenda for Europe and the National Wideband Plan, we want to ensure that by 2020 all households in Poland can access the Internet with a capacity of at least 30 Mbps and build demand for even faster services, so that by the same year at least 50% households have used services with a capacity of at least 100 Mbps. We are aware of the demographic and geographical characteristics of our country and make the development of modern telecommunications infrastructure slower in many areas, particularly rural ones or much slower than in urban centres. Such areas are most often, as you said, economically unattractive, but also not economically attractive to telecom operators due to the excessive cost of investment compared to expected and acceptable investment revenues. This is, moreover, a permanent problem when it comes to building infrastructure in less urban areas with lower population density, because the cost of building such infrastructure per capita is simply much higher. We therefore consider all activities related to the provision of broadband access as an important element of the country's sustainable development and the real levelling of rural opportunities. In order to counter the permanent digital exclusion of these areas, we are implementing the Digital Poland Operational Programme, in which we have allocated over PLN 4 billion to the construction of broadband networks. So far we have announced and resolved two calls for funding, which have resulted in over 130 projects covering more than 1.3 million households and almost 7,000. location of schools - as a rule, sometimes these schools are several in one location - in so-called areas. white spots accessing the high-speed internet. In the context of the areas where we intervene, it should be pointed out that more than 80% households so far designated to cover modern infrastructure with PO PC funds are located in localities up to 5 thousand. residents, therefore overall 80% This intervention is aimed at rural areas. The amount of the grant is approx. PLN 2.4 billion, which means that we still have free funding for subsidising entrepreneurs in the implementation of projects that eliminate white spots. As a result, we are working on the organisation of the next selection of applications for funding, because not all areas of Poland have been interested in investors as part of the previous two recruitments. In addition to grants under OP PCs, we also implement a support programme primarily for small and medium-sized telecoms entrepreneurs in the form of loans. For this purpose we have allocated PLN 1 billion. The operator of this project is Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. It has already identified one operator, Alior Bank, and these loans will be available to small and medium-sized telecommunication companies in a moment so that their ability to invest in broadband networks is greater. A very important element, which we consider to be a flywheel of Internet access, the development of high-speed broadband Internet, is the draft law on the construction of the National Education Network adopted by the Council of Ministers on Tuesday. As part of this project, we intend to lead all schools to the investment of telecommunications operators, but above all through the free mechanism... I mean, we want the Internet in all schools to be free. This means really funding from the state budget, not from the budgets of local government units or other bodies running schools, which we believe will increase the attractiveness of telecommunications operators' investments in broadband networks and will stimulate the development of these networks also outside schools in rural areas - mainly rural, although of course the OSE will be directed to all schools in Poland. In order to make investments in telecommunications infrastructure less capital intensive, last year we followed a law amending a package of laws that concerns the investment process in telecommunications infrastructure. We have therefore shortened this process and reduced its costs. at least at the level of administrative procedures. We also have a dialogue with local government representatives to build awareness of the need to reduce costs, for example the costs associated with the occupation of the road, because this is often a barrier to investment, especially in rural areas. Finally, it is worth pointing out that we are involved in the work on the initiative of the European Commission. Wi-Fi for you, according to which the municipalities will be able to receive EU credits for the development of points, so-called. free hotspots, in communes. We are already at such a stage that a compromise has been reached between the European Parliament and the Council on the objectives of this initiative. We look forward to specific proposals on the support system. The first call is scheduled for the end of 2018 and 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u53	Thank you very much. I would like an additional question from Mr Jarosław Goncier.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u54	In my second question, I wanted to ask you about the development of high-speed Internet in schools. The Minister has already answered this at the first question, which is why I wanted to ask about the role of the private sector in this undertaking. Is the Ministry considering any possible cooperation with this sector in the implementation of future projects to implement high-speed Internet access in these municipalities?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u55	Please, Minister Marek Zagórski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u56	As I said, the Council of Ministers adopted a bill on Tuesday, which, I think, will soon be directed to work in Parliament. This project imposes on the OSE operator, we propose that the OSE operator should be the Scientific and Academic Computer Network of the State Research Institute, the obligation to use existing telecommunications infrastructure for the construction of the OSE network, on a competitive basis, of course, i.e. the use of infrastructure built by entrepreneurs, including small and medium-sized telecommunications companies. This mechanism is very closely linked to what I mentioned earlier, namely the Digital Poland Operational Programme, i.e. the grants we provide for the construction of broadband infrastructure in areas of white spots, but not only. It will also be linked to the investment plans of telecommunications operators, i.e. that the telecommunications operator will build a link to the school and then the OSE operator will use it, lease it on commercial terms, so we will pay for it. Of course, when it comes to this extraction process, where there is more than one supplier, one operator in a given area, this will be a competitive procedure. Where this infrastructure exists on the basis that there is one operator, it will first use its services. We think that this will also be an impulse for telecom operators to speed up the process of connecting schools to broadband Internet, with a guarantee that schools will receive this service, because the state will, in turn, finance it from the state budget. What is important is that schools will have an obligation to provide high-speed broadband, leading authorities will have an obligation to provide this Internet in schools. They will be able to use either the free offer of the OSE operator or buy this Internet on a commercial basis. This obligation will be real since 2021. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u57	Thank you, Minister. We move to the seventh question, formulated by Monika Wielichowska and Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz from the Civic Platform. The question about the lack of a viable support system for victims of sexual crimes is addressed to the Minister of Justice. I would like to ask Mrs Monica Wieliczhowska for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u58	Thank you very much. Minister! A few days ago, Minister Ziobro announced a tightening of penalties for criminals, rape offenders. I want to ask the Minister about a real system of support for victims of sexual crimes, because it is paradoxical that the PiS government, which on the one hand wants to increase the penalty for rape, on the other hand restricts the victims of rape aid, takes away the funding of non-governmental organisations that help women who are victims of violence. It also negates the anti-violence convention and does not implement it by taking away women's rights. Is that enough, Minister? Isn't that just populism? After all, a small percentage of cases involving sex crimes go to court. For the past two years, there should be a call of confidence running by the State. Why is the phone still not working? I would like to remind you that since August 2015 the Polish Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence has been in force. Art. 24 conventions require the party to create a nationwide, 24-hour, free phone of trust, which respects the confidentiality of callers, to provide advice and help. Minister, the higher penalties do not go hand in hand with the inevitability of punishment and the completion of proceedings. Higher punishments won't work when the executioners are unpunished. What is important is the care and state aid that is missing today. There is no regulation to be able to reliably inform, support and protect victims. Instead of policies to prevent sexual crimes in Poland, victims and potential victims of sexual crimes are ignored. After all, we have a number of omissions which result from the failure to comply with obligations, such as the anti-violence convention. Do you know, Minister, that this week, on Tuesday, the European Parliament supported by a large majority the accession of the European Union to the Istanbul Convention? The Convention is now an officially recognised document by the Union which sets out the lines of anti-violence policy in the Union. So, important questions. What is the government's position on this matter? How do you intend to implement the provisions of the anti-violence convention? How much money will the government and the Ministry of Justice allocate for this purpose? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u59	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Michał Woś.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u60	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Messengers, The Member was so kind to ask the question that she referred to populism. And from that I will begin the answer, because this question seems to have some characteristics of populism. The Member did not want to see whether the Blue Line actually works or not. I have prepared a telephone number for you, please. I encourage everyone to use it. It's a 24-hour free professional aid to the victims. [[Applause]] e.g. victims of sexual crimes. She did not want to prepare herself, since she is speaking here, asking a question, suggests that the State does not provide psychological, legal assistance to victims of crime, widely understood crimes, but especially crimes of these most serious, sexual crimes, those against whom we are fighting, because there is a fund for helping the victims. The Law and Justice Government amended the Law and Justice Club by law. The Code of Criminal Enforcement, and the resources of the Justice Fund through this amendment can be spent more efficiently, it will be implemented more efficiently, more efficiently. Just yesterday, the Minister of Justice signed a regulation laying down new rules for the spending of the Justice Fund. You didn't want to see how much money was given to NGOs, and it was 16 million in two competitions, to help victims, victims. Nor have you verified that from Szczecin, let's say to Urzzyki Górne, so to speak, this assistance is provided throughout Poland, at 76 points at the moment. Our goal is to create such points of assistance for victims of crime throughout Poland. I am sorry to say this because, of course, I would prefer to answer the question in substance rather than to preach here, express some regret that the Member has not checked this information. However, I inform you that everything is perfectly all right. Moreover, to some extent, we take these questions as an attempt to discredit the Ministry of Justice's proposal, a good proposal from the Ministry of Justice, to tighten up the penalty for sexual crimes. Yes, there are theories about the inevitability of punishment - we do not deny them - but as much punishment also has a preventive function. The severity of the penalty is important throughout the state's criminal system and we will tighten up these penalties. The Ministry of Justice has put forward proposals so that for these most horrible crimes, crimes with serious injury to health, crimes against minors, tighten up penalties, raise this, and add 25 years of imprisonment. What is more, Commissioner, I will say that this is unfortunately for your governments, but there has been little going on in this area. There were beautiful words, beautiful philosophies, there were beautiful meetings with various organizations, while this country changed among others. A criminal trial so that these victims, victims of crime, had to defend themselves in court. It was the judge who arbitraryly ruled between two points. We changed it in such a way that it is the judge who is to seek the material truth, also to help the victim of the crime, if this victim is, say, the weaker party in the trial. Moreover, in 2007, when we finished previous governments, one of the effects of the work of the Ministry of Justice, Minister of Ziobra, was a criminal project, which already provided for by that time, among others. Stricter penalties for crimes of this kind. Absolutely there was then, and now there is no consent to indulgence, any indulgence against rapists or other perpetrators of crime. And now, my dear fellow Members, High Izbo, I would like to address in detail... I'll take you to the Ministry. I would be happy to talk about the Justice Fund, the aid fund for victims throughout the support system, but we would be very committed if there were no such lie in public space that we did not support victims of crime, because it is support that there is no blue line... and the Blue Line is still functioning and financed by public funds. In our opinion, the directive is being implemented effectively. Thanks to the regulation on the Justice Fund signed yesterday, we are gaining new mechanisms and will be able to help victims of crime even more effectively, especially sexual crime. You also asked about the sex offenders' records... [[I didn't ask that, Minister. You weren't listening. I didn't ask you that.]] Excuse me, indeed. On the other hand, let me point out to you that such a register is being created and will be operational as of 1 October. It consists of two parts: a limited part for all Polish services, all security institutions, and a public register where everyone will be able, in the course of time, to check, as the entries are made by the relevant institutions, whether the area in which they live is indeed a safe area. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u61	Thank you, Minister. I would like an additional question from Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u62	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! However, if the subject concerns women, rape victims, I think it would be good to have more humility and to listen to these women. It is precisely that rape victims have received the most aid from various NGOs in recent years, including. from the Women's Rights Center, which has been helping them for over 20 years. And I don't know, but the Minister himself forgot that it was the first time last year that the Ministry of Justice refused to finance the Women's Rights Center. The Minister asked me to tell you about the Blue Line. And isn't that the phone number 22 668 70 00 that didn't work for three months, he kept quiet for three months? The women who knew this phone number couldn't call this number. And isn't it because your department just took the funding for the operation of this phone? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And another thing. Minister, why didn't your resort protest when Minister Radziwiłł took an ellaOne pill, which was so badly in a tragic situation...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u63	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u64	...helping rape victims immediately? [[And the anti-violence convention, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u65	And there you go, Minister Michał Woś.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Member wanted to refer to the Foundation of the Centre for Women's Rights. Well, you should be well aware of that, because you're dealing with it, and I'm facing it, because it's a really difficult subject for you to assume that grants are being awarded as part of competitions, open competitions. All offers... There were a lot of offers, each one was evaluated. The Women's Rights Centre Foundation has not gained enough points to grant... [[Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz: But Kornel Morawiecki's assistant got it.]] ... It's this organization. There were other, better associations. Why do you want to distinguish one organisation and discredit others who help all over Poland? [[Member Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz: Women do not want.]] Especially since it had already happened, because once here in the Sejm there was a question about the Centre for Women's Rights and then Minister Łukasz Piebiak gave the answer, and actually he was talking about the fact that there were big problems with the settlement of grants that were received by the Centre for Women's Rights. Once again, ladies, I would like to talk to you about this in detail. She spoke about the so-called. Blue line starting with number 22, free of charge. The EU directive speaks of a paid one. Excuse me, the EU directive is talking about a free 24/7 professional line. [[Mr Marzen Okła-Drewnowicz: Minister, the more, the better.]] Here, Madam, there is a telephone number: 800 120 002. I encourage you to advertise this telephone number together, so that everyone in Poland knows that under this number they will receive professional psychological assistance, legal assistance. [[Member Marzen Okła-Drewnowicz: Only the latter had more confidence.]] [[Anti-violence convention, Minister.]] Did the Member ask such a question? [[Yes.]] We're implementing the anti-violence convention. [[How?]] We are talking about this in detail and in public space, and also here. Anti-violence convention, e.g. by amending the rules, including criminal proceedings, where the witness is presented to each victim with his rights, including the possibility of psychological assistance, legal assistance, legal assistance, legal support, transfer of a professional proxy... We implement this assistance by creating a network of legal assistance points. [[A network of help?]] We also implement this directive by launching a free line. So that, in our opinion, the Convention is being implemented and work is underway in the Ministry on even more far-reaching legislative changes and practices, so that assistance to women is provided, not only to women, but to all victims of sexual crimes who are harmed, in a wide way. Thank you kindly. [[Marzen Okła-Drewnowicz: A ellaOne?]] ellaOne tablets are not a matter of justice. [[Member Marzen Okła-Drewnowicz: They help rape victims.]] This is a matter of the Ministry of Health. On the other hand, we are a government which, of course, welcomes all kinds of initiatives that serve to strengthen good values in society. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Taking away women's rights.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u67	Thank you, Minister. The next question was raised by Mr Anna Milczanowska, Ms Joanna Borowiak, Ms Lydia Burzyńska and Mr Piotr Uściński from Law and Justice. The question on the protection of the welfare of Polish children living abroad and the improvement of the procedure related to applications for a child under the 1980 Hague Convention is addressed to the Minister of Justice. I would ask you to ask Anna Milczanowska for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u68	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The area requiring the introduction of new legal regulations to improve the situation of Polish children is the procedure related to applications for the issue of a child under the 1980 Hague Convention concerning the abduction of children abroad. In order to reduce possible harm to Polish children, it would be advisable to speed up such proceedings while ensuring the proper substantive preparation of judges ruling in these cases, e.g. by designating the courts that will specialize in this. The number of applications for the issue of a child from Poland has increased dramatically in recent years and this phenomenon seems to be a constant trend. Does the Ministry analyze the causes and effects of the increase in the number of applications for a child from Poland? Are these proceedings supervised by the Minister of Justice and to what extent? Is the Ministry considering taking action to effectively prevent child abuse as a result of their return abroad? If so, what actions and when can they be expected to be introduced? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u69	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Michał Wójcik.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u70	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you so much for that question. For several months now, there has been such a lively debate on parental abductions, but also on caring matters. I would like to begin by thanking the committees that have been leaning on this issue very warmly, among others. The Committee on Communications with Poles abroad and the Committee on Petitions. We've been talking about these things. These are delicate matters. You know, we're sensitive. It's about the children's welfare. I want to say yes at first. After a dozen months of my work in the Ministry of Justice, when I was ordered to diagnose this problem and prepare solutions, today I want to inform you that we have prepared a draft of changes, or actually a draft law that has never functioned. This is the biggest paradox of this whole case that there has never been a Central Authority Act, which is the Ministry of Justice. The paradox was that for years cases that had affected the Ministry of Justice have been settled in a customary way for years, despite the fact that the background was about children's well-being and very sensitive matters, civil, criminal, international issues have arisen. We have prepared a draft law on the Central Authority, which is the Ministry of Justice, in order to define very carefully the procedure, what should happen to the proposal at a time when such a case affects our ministry. We were one of the last countries in Europe that had no such regulation. I would also like to say that, until recently, these cases - this is unbelievable - only two people were involved in the Ministry of Justice. Today we have a special department that's handling this. This is the department that operates within the department of international affairs. This department covers 17 people, but it seems that there should be further reinforcement of staff due to the increase in cases. It was just a question of how much that number increased. By 30%, the number of cases increased. Why? Because we've finally started talking about how you're gonna stand up for a citizen, that you're gonna stand up for a citizen, but of course there's always gonna be a child's welfare in the background. Because it's not always the case that a Polish citizen is right. You have to keep that in mind, too. But our citizens often, because the state didn't stand up for them, were losing to the citizens of foreign countries. We have prepared a project that assumes four basic elements. The first one is specialization. Specialized courts will be set up. It's not about more than 300 district courts, it's about 11 district courts. 11 district courts. We move these cases to a higher level and create specialist judiciary. This is not about 45 courts of appeal, it is about one court of appeal. It's not about the county courts. It's about one appeal court. A special department will be established in the Court of Appeal in Warsaw. What does that mean? This means that not a few thousand judges will deal with these matters, but 30 and 40 people, 30 and 40 trained, trained judges on a national scale. We are preparing all the trainings within the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, so that they are people equipped with knowledge. Plus, we're giving new tools to the Attorney General. This is a cassation complaint. There are extremely complex, difficult and sometimes objectionable issues at a time when the case ends with a final settlement. Until now, the Attorney General has not been able to intervene. Today he will have a cassation complaint - an emergency appeal. He'll have the right to do that. Another issue that raised doubts is the issue of children after the first instance. The decision at first instance meant that the child could have left our country the next day. We are introducing a new regulation: ban on children until the case is settled. This is very important and refers to European standards. Finally, this is also about the so-called case. Lawyer's coercion, which I have touched gently. There's our citizen. The fact is, he's assuming he's gonna win the case because he's right. The fact that he's right is one thing, but that's one thing to protect. That's why our citizens often lose because they collide with the machine, you can say, lawyers from other countries. Therefore, there will be a legal obligation - the obligation to participate in such cases. And that means that if people can't afford such a defender, then such a proxy can be assigned to her by law. And that's an important thing too. We also promote mediation. As early as October, a special seminar will be held with representatives of the German Ministry of Justice. We want most or many cases to be settled through mediation. This is an instrument that has not been used so far. Finally, I would also like to thank the prosecution, the prosecutors of Święczkowski and Hernand of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Deputy Prosecutor General. The first thing we did was ask the prosecutors to take part in all these cases. And that's what's happening today. Polish prosecutors are involved in abduction cases. Special guidelines have been issued in this respect. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u71	Thank you. I ask Mr Uściński for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u72	Thank you, Minister, for the really exciting information we have about the reform. We are pleased that the state is finally behind the citizen. But this earlier issue raises another question that we want to complete. For a long time, information has been published in national media regarding the unfair, harmful taking away of children from Polish families residing in other European countries. The Polish Association of Parents Against Discrimination Children in Germany has announced the case of the taking away of children from Poles by Jugendamt. But it's not the only case. Similar reports can be found, among others. Sweden and the Netherlands. It seems that the current forms of support for disadvantaged families located outside the Republic of Poland are insufficient. Question: "Is the Ministry considering introducing legal changes to better protect and help those families abroad?" [[♪ The bell ♪]] If so, what will be the forms of this support and when can we expect it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u73	Minister Michael Wójcik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u74	Thank you very much. The first part of the question concerned the so-called. kidnapping cases. This part of the question concerns caring matters, that is, cases that are taking place abroad on the basis of national laws. And that's the problem. I am performing here and there is an opportunity to feel Polish citizens. If they are going to other countries, they must remember that they are governed by the law that operates in another country. So our, sometimes connected with our culture, things are completely different in another country. It's about the parent-child relationship. Against this background, there are sometimes misunderstandings and great dramas. I would like to say that we are talking to the central authorities of other countries. Mr Jugendamt touched on the subject. I had the opportunity to be in Germany for the first time in years. Some minister came there to talk about children. I have to say, it was a good meeting, very good. The result of this is, among others. the proposal already put forward by the German side through the embassy, the German Ambassador in Poland, to create a working group, a little better working than in previous years, where representatives of the German and Polish Ministry of Justice will be present, so that we can develop mechanisms that can function in these matters and help our citizens. What is it? In our relations with Great Britain, we use the mechanism consisting of this - informal mechanism - that the central authority at the moment when it is informed that there is a caring issue concerning the Polish citizen, the child, informs us as a central body in an informal manner - once again I say: there is no agreement in this regard - and we, through the court and the curator, conduct an environmental interview, informing whether there is a foster family in Poland for such a child. The idea is to maintain a cultural and identity bond, a Polish language, that is the most important thing. Culture, certain traditions, what follows from the article. The 8th Convention on the Rights of the Child, that's what's most important. And in 40-50% such cases we find Polish foster families, i.e. We find them in more than 90% of cases, but the British courts decide to place children in 40.50% such cases, so it is not true what sometimes appears in public space, that thousands of children are placed in foreign families. That's not true. In the case of the United Kingdom, the court ultimately decides, as in other countries, and let us remember that. We can't force anybody, the court decides, getting information from us, whether it can put a child in this family or not. We also want to develop such mechanisms in relations with Germany, and I think it is possible. And two things I've exposed. Mr. Marshal, this is an important matter. I'm going to extend it literally by 20 and 30 seconds. The first case concerns situations where, if there is a dispute, Jugendamt appears, these are caring cases, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And you have to put the baby in foster care. The point is that the child should be placed in the Polish family, where it is spoken in Polish, in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. I was just putting this issue at a meeting yesterday, and it is absolutely a priority for us to have a child, a Polish citizen, according to the article. 8 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, it was sent to the Polish family, where it is spoken in Polish. The second point is that at all stages of the proceedings, also before Jugendamt, Polish diplomats can participate, so that Poles feel calmer, better, more likely in such relationships when the local government institution, which is Jugendamt, appears. This is a government institution, not a state institution, and here is a kind of problem. I hope we can make this happen. I would ask Members very much - soon we will be discussing this draft law - so that they will really take a very careful look at these provisions and possibly present their proposals. This is a very important matter. Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u75	Thank you, Minister. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 min. 58 hours 11 min 04]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 23 of the agenda. We'll proceed with question nine. This is a question raised by Mr Urszula Augustyn, Elizabeth Gapinska and Isabella Katarzyna Mrzygłocka from the Civic Platform on individual teaching - to the Minister of National Education. Please, Mrs Urszula Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u76	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Well, the topic we're going to talk about is that the Minister is well-known. To be honest, I am very pleased that Minister Machalek is here because we held a debate and in public media, and individually, as well as at a specially convened meeting of the Education and Family Committees. We have been presenting this problem for months. The Minister pretended to listen - I'm sorry for the word she pretended - but nothing came of this pretending. I mean, the regulation you proposed hasn't changed to a jot. And maybe I would think that these beautiful words made by the Minister in the media about how important this inclusive teaching is, and how very much you go out to parents who have children with disabilities, to whom individual teaching has been made that you really understand it and you really want to help these people, or at least not disturb them. Because so far, the situation has looked like that individual teaching could have been carried out at school or at home, or in the environment of the child. Now those words in school are gone. And, yes, here is the great glory of the local governments that are at the border of the law doing what they can to keep this teaching going at school, but unfortunately, according to the regulation you gave, this teaching can be done in the environment of the child. The words of the school were thrown out. Moreover, those situations which have so far taken place, i.e. judgments which were issued earlier, are valid only until the end of the 2017/2018 school year. And once again, I may not understand this, but it is certainly not understood by the parents who, on social media, and in our parliamentary offices, ask what to do today, when the counsellor cannot give them a ruling that this individual teaching can take place at school, while it can only be done at home, which makes the child [[♪ The bell ♪]] is removed outside the school community. It's segregation, it's fatal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u77	Thank you very much. And please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Mrs Marzena Machalek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think, in listening to the honourable Member, that... I want to believe that what he says is not because of bad will, but because of the misunderstanding of the problem. Because it is true that the communication of such information can cause anxiety. I would like to say that caring for children, including children with special educational needs, is very important for us, for the ministry is very important, and that is why we have been talking to the environments, associations, parents over the last few months and that is why we have prepared rules that need to be read together. Then you, Members and Members, will understand that in these four regulations there is a coherent system of childcare with special educational needs. Education is provided, care is provided, funding is provided. And now I want to make it clear that public opinion must not be misled, because this is... [[I don't even need it.]] ...too delicate matter. Let's show concern, let's be honest, and let's show our own knowledge of regulations and problems before we talk about it. Today we have a coherent child care system with disabilities, sick children, children with special educational needs. And that's why we assume that a disabled child doesn't have to have a decision on individual education to have individual education at school. Once again, I am speaking here primarily to those parents who listen to us: if your child has a disability ruling, he has the so-called. the individual educational and therapeutic programme, this is very much clarified at the moment in the Regulation. This program is organized by a team of teachers together with a parent. There are special regulations that also say that a parent needs to be notified and participates in the arrangement for his child's educational and therapeutic program. In a word, looking at the number of children who had decisions about the need for special education, it is 50% of them were children who had decisions about individual teaching. There is no need for a child to be cared for, cared for in school, and has classes in both the group and individual classes, to have to go for an additional ruling on individual teaching. That wasn't good. It was an attempt to solve children's problems with short-term disabilities. We know and realize that what we propose is sometimes more difficult for the school, more difficult for the principal, because it requires more organizational effort, more effort to talk and contact with children, but it is not true - and please do not spread it - that children with disabilities cannot have individual classes in school. They have individual classes at school. Parents judge it, teachers judge it. As I said at the beginning, these solutions are based on listening to public opinion, concern and concern of parents. Our parents told us that they were fleeing to this individual teaching because the school did not implement an individual educational and therapeutic program in which it was individual education. That is why we have prepared the relevant statutory provisions. In the Education Law Act, we say that the money that goes after a disabled child... And that's a lot of money, because if we're talking about a kid with Asperger's syndrome, with autism or with bonds, it's over 50,000. If this money is spent in school for a child, it will really be possible to organize a good education in which he will be with his peers, an education in which he will have individual classes. And what I want to say is that it's going to be so organized that if this baby needs extra individual math, then at a time when there's math of the whole group, he's got one math class next to him, and then he's going back to his group. One of the moms -- I'm telling you this -- she told us at the meeting that she really wanted this model to come in and that the schools would implement it... [[Voice from the room: One mom.]] ...because he thinks the best therapist for his kid is his friend on the bench. That's what we think. It was the previous laws that allowed discrimination, that allowed a child to have special... [[Voice from the room: You gotta be kidding me.]] ...the educational needs were not in the peer group, but alone with the teacher, and with his peers he could meet at a break. No, we think that children with disabilities have the right to be with their peers. Parents and teachers will determine that. On the other hand, individual teaching is intended for sick children who cannot go to school, but if their health improves, they improve, then they return, you can suspend individual teaching, [[♪ The bell ♪]] if the state of health permits it, they can participate in school life. Once again, Mr. Marshal, just to tell the truth. I believe that the Members who say this...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u79	Okay, thank you, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: ...they say it because they don't understand the rules. I recommend you read them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to ask you an additional question from Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u80	Minister, when I listen to you, of course the words sound very beautiful, but it is a pity that this is not being implemented. This is the same truth as when you said there would be additional jobs for teachers, and as we know, many teachers have lost their jobs or worked part-time. That's one thing. Secondly, if you say that this programme is not being implemented, then by whom is it not being implemented? By schools that don't have the ability to do it or by parents who want to and can't use it? You have introduced the records that we talked about during the sitting and committee, and here in the Parliament hall, that they will be illegible and that this is how they will be implemented. That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to say to the Minister that there are many cases of children, e.g. I have this information from Katowice, there are situations in which parents for various reasons, e.g. for housing reasons or because of the family situation, they do not want the child to have individual teaching, because they cannot on the ground [[♪ The bell ♪]] The house, just at school. You haven't met the needs of such parents, and here the whispering of reality, Minister, speaking with beautiful words isn't gonna help. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u81	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister Marzena Machalek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I thought I was clear. I therefore recommend reading regulations, relevant paragraphs... [[We read it.]] ...to try to read it with understanding, as it is quite clear that there is another group of legal solutions regarding psychological and pedagogical assistance for a child who is sick and does not need to be at home. This is an individualised learning path. Such a child may be in school and may also have a group education and individual training, because there are cases of diseases that do not prevent him from staying at school, but prevent him from being in such a total school for all his lessons. We've also anticipated such solutions. First of all, we care about introducing inclusive education, so as not to take shortcuts, I ask you not to cause children who have any problems to be expelled from the peer group. [[And that's how it is.]] Unfortunately, that's what happened. You didn't understand, and you didn't understand. That's what we were talking about. I hope that's not the case anymore, because these regulations do not allow it. This was the case, and what you are talking about, the schools did not carry out or say: well, we have a problem with you or your child, with your child, there is a problem, so maybe in addition to the special education decision go and organize a decision on individual education, then we will organize individual training at all outside the group. It's not right. We believe that we have clarified the rules so that there is no confusion about this, that the individual educational and therapeutic programme for a disabled child is implemented in a school with a group and within individual classes. It could be math, but it could be a different improvement class. I suggest we accept that, but we also accept the fact that... [[Tell your parents that.]] ...that we're gonna have to monitor the situation. That is why we have prepared two visitors in each of the curatoria, trained directors and teachers, and will continue to train them, and I promise you that any irregularity that will be in individual education or in the education of children with special needs, or when it comes to children with disabilities, we will monitor, observe and react. Let me remind you that these are really extra resources. There were no additional resources for individual teaching. These are subsidies. On the other hand, children with disabilities are given additional weight in subsidies. [[They always have been.]] Therefore, not only are we introducing these solutions that are beneficial for students, for children and for parents, but we are still giving [[♪ The bell ♪]] Hard records in laws to ensure that local governments carry out this task properly. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u83	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the tenth question formulated by Mieczysław Miazga, Zbigniew Chmielowiec and Kazimierz Gołoiuch from Law and Justice. The question about mandatory fees for so-called. green card collected from citizens of the Republic of Poland by border services of certain European countries - question to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Please, Mr Mieczysław Miazga.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u84	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The holiday season for the vast majority of Poles is over. For many it was a journey time, including a journey through Europe. I therefore allow myself to ask the question, which is the consequence of the signals notified to my parliamentary office and which concerns an unpleasant requirement, the obligation which has been and is now imposed on our citizens in connection with, for example, the journey of their own means of transport and the crossing of the Serbian-Macedonian border. Dear Minister, on what legal basis are the charges levied on Polish citizens for the so-called. A green card that determines entry into Macedonia? Let me point out that the minimum fee is EUR 50. The way in which individual persons crossing the border are forced to do this is also important, i.e. passports are retained by the border services, which can be collected with the presentation of a document confirming the purchase of additional insurance, so-called. Green card. Therefore, my question is whether the Minister is familiar with the legal basis for the enforcement of the above mentioned. fees? Is a country making efforts to enter the European Union, i.e. Macedonia can apply rules imposing such an obligation to Polish citizens, citizens of the Member States? If there is no legal basis for these actions, will the Ministry of Foreign Affairs intend to take appropriate action in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u85	Thank you very much. And please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Mr Bartosz Cichocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u86	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you very much to Mr Mieczysław Miazga, Mr Zbigniew Chmielowiec and Mr Kazimierz Gołojuch for the questions addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I'd be happy to answer that. As regards the legal basis, the legal basis is the Green Card system, which has been in operation since 1 January 1953. Its purpose is to ensure that victims of traffic accidents receive compensation for the damage caused by a driver of a vehicle registered abroad, and to avoid the obligation to purchase motor insurance at the border of each of the countries visited. Within the framework of the Green Card system, there is a multilateral agreement whereby drivers of vehicles registered in signatory countries can move within their territories without the need for a green card. The multilateral agreement includes 32 of the 47 members of the Green Card scheme. Polish citizens therefore need a green card in all those countries which are part of the Green Card system but do not sign a multilateral agreement. In other cases, normal OC is sufficient. The group of those countries which belong to the system but do not sign a multilateral agreement is the Republic of Macedonia, which at the border collects the fees mentioned by the Member and requires a green card. The green card in most insurance companies operating in Poland is issued free of charge or for a small fee. The fee that you are asking me, Members, is so-called. border insurance, which must be purchased only by those Polish drivers who do not have a green card, e.g. They didn't pick her up from their insurance company or they forgot to take her away on a foreign trip. I would like to point out that information about the need to have a green card when crossing the Macedonian border, as well as the consequences of the lack of it, i.e. the need to buy border insurance, is provided in the guide I would add on this occasion that citizens of the Republic of Macedonia are also obliged to have a green card when entering Poland. By clarifying the answer to the question of the link between this requirement and the attempt to enter the European Union - there is no such link here. States are encouraged to join the multilateral agreement on the basis of the UN Geneva Recommendation, i.e. at the level of the United Nations. The European Union does not require such a... This is not part of the accession negotiations. Of course, Poland can and will encourage facilitations for travel, mutually beneficial facilitations, including Macedonia and other countries that are in the green card system, but are not yet members of the multilateral agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u87	Thank you, Minister. Would Mr Mieczysław Miazga like to ask an additional question? [[No, I'm not gonna ask an additional question, the answer was exhausting. Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. In that case, we move on to the next, last question put by Andrzej Gawron, Jerzy Paul, Dariusz Starzycki and Ryszard Bartosik on the production of bread-like products on the basis of frozen dough in markets. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health. Here you go, Mr Jerzy Paul.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u88	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! More and more often, people come to our offices who are concerned about the source of bread bought in large-area shops and baked on the basis of deep-frozen dough. L-cystein, which is one of the ingredients of this cake, is concerned. In the European Union, production is prohibited. It is said to be produced in Romania despite bans, and it is prohibited because it is produced from human hair, bird feathers and pig scalp. The problem is that Polish law only requires the indication that the baked goods were made from deep-frozen dough, but there is no obligation to indicate what source it comes from. Therefore, I have a question: Are there instruments that effectively protect the Polish market from the import of deep-frozen dough produced on the basis of human hair or feathers?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u89	Mr Dariusz Starzycki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u90	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Polish law requires sellers offering such products to inform consumers that it is a deep-frozen product and at the same time to inform about the composition of this product. While information is actually provided that bread comes from frozen dough, information on the composition of the dough is rarely available. Therefore: Are there any methods for verifying the fulfilment of the obligations incumbent on sellers? Second question: Does the Ministry plan to carry out an information campaign within the framework of a campaign that is already underway, promoting healthy lifestyles and informing about the differences between frozen bread and traditional bread? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u91	Thank you. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Marek Tombarkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the first question is concerned, all food that is placed on the market in all European Union countries, including food imported from countries outside the Union, must comply with all the requirements of European Union legislation. With regard to L-cysteine, which is only an additive to flour as an enhancer, it must comply with the requirements of the European Commission Regulation According to the provisions of this Regulation, human hair cannot be used as a starting material for the production of this type of improver as a material for the production of L-cysteine. According to Art. 14 and 17 Regulations 178 of the European Parliament of 2002 laying down the general principles and requirements of food law, establishing the European Food Authority. Food safety and food safety procedures on the market must not be hazardous to human health and life. The responsibility for this safety is borne by the entrepreneur. Entrepreneurs in the food industry are subject to control at both the production and marketing stage as regards the application of these provisions of food law by the official food control authorities, including the State Sanitary Inspection, which operates on the basis of the State Sanitary Inspection Act. Direct supervision of the activities of food business operators, i.e. those responsible for the entire food production and processing process, including the supervision of bakeries, shall be exercised under this law by the authorities of the State Sanitary Inspection which control the use of the relevant substances which are used for the production, including their labelling and traceability, the conditions of use and documentation confirming that the product complies with food safety requirements. Documentation check for these additives, such as: L-cysteine primarily concerns purity criteria, which are laid down in the provisions of the European Commission Regulation recognising purity criteria for additives, including the origin of the substances from which these additives were produced. Foods which are transported from third countries to the territory of the European Union shall be placed on the market subject to a border health inspection carried out by the authorities of the State Sanitary Inspection. These food controls are also carried out in the framework of the supervision of the establishments themselves. Therefore, in addition to border controls, controls are also carried out at the level of food production and marketing establishments. So that as far as legislation is concerned, this is all quite strictly described and respected by the authorities of the State Sanitary Inspection. We were not informed that the origin of L-cysteine could be inappropriate, contrary to European Union legislation. As regards other additives, such as calcium propionate or potassium sorbitan, which, like L-cysteine, belong to a group of food additives with specific E- Potassium propionate is E282, potassium sorbitan is E202, L-cysteine is E920 - only those additives that have been authorised by the relevant provisions I mentioned earlier can be used. These additives may be used for the purposes of the so-called "supplies'. technologically, which is precisely defined by the European Union legislation mentioned just now. As far as the details of this legislation are concerned, this is a regulation The European Parliament on food additives from 2008. That Regulation constitutes general rules for the use of food additives, the list of authorised food additives and their conditions of use for certain categories of foodstuffs, including their maximum levels. The legal act which contains detailed requirements for the use of food additives, including their doses and conditions of use, is the 2011 European Commission Regulation. There all this is discussed thoroughly, and the Polish services, I think, also closely supervise compliance with these regulations. As far as these improvers are concerned, both L-cysteine and calcium propionate and potassium sorbitan, which can be used for rye bread and bread cut as preservatives, whereas L-cysteine as so-called. the improver, this use of these substances must comply with the provisions already mentioned and also justified by the technology itself. Information on their use must be given on the product itself, i.e. as the material composition from which the type of bread was produced. On the other hand, when it comes to the possibility of carrying out an information campaign on this, it is necessary, of course, to consider whether it is necessary to inform people that the bread from the classic [[♪ The bell ♪]] baking is better, even tasty, than such a deep frozen one, but it seems that these regulations, which clearly dictate the use of material composition, are sufficient. But if there's a conclusion...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u93	Thank you, Minister. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Marek Tombarkiewicz: ...then, of course, we will consider the possibility of carrying out an even wider information campaign on... There's still time for extra questions. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Marek Tombarkiewicz: Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Mr Richard Bartosik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u94	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Since these are deep-frozen products, I would like to ask whether the way in which they are stored and, above all, the time is controlled. Another question. Is it really in large-area shops that this provision is enforced, which speaks of the composition of these products, because in practice it is not visible? Another question is that these improvers are already used in biscuits and other cookies. Is there adequate control, supervision with these products, but above all is there any indication on the packaging that these products were made with these improvers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u95	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Marek Tombarkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u96	Mr. Marshal! With regard to whether there is proper control of this process, this process of processing this deep-frozen bread is primarily based on an analysis of the efficiency of sufficiently low temperatures throughout the process: from freezing to transport to storage. On the other hand, as far as information is concerned, there is a clear provision that, for each product that is sold both in bulk and in bread and in the case of original prepackages, such as. on the mentioned biscuits, it must be clearly described. There has not been any information to the state inspection that these regulations have been violated or avoided in any way. As far as the entire technological process is concerned, all manufacturers should comply with the requirements of the former HAACP standard, this is currently ISO 22000 standard, which are controlled by the authorities of the State Sanitary Inspection. Suffice to say, last year, the State Sanitary Inspection took over almost 470 thousand. all objects, including more than 5 thousand. Bakery, 141,000. Stores, 15,000. food kiosks, i.e. this size of control, range, seems to be very good. As far as bread goes, that's 5,000. The bakery in 119 bakeries assessed bread quality as non-compliant. More than 2 000 were therefore spent. administrative decisions ordering the removal of these deficiencies and imposing fines on the guilty of negligence for a total amount of almost 200 000. zł. So that these are quite severe penalties which, I hope, fulfil their role, and such an entrepreneur, apart from removing irregularities, feels quite painfully and effectively this punishment. As far as the supervisory authorities are concerned, the State Sanitary Inspection has so far not been affected by any questions from traders or consumers that would call into question that the use of these additives, the deep-frozen dough improvers, was in any way inappropriate. By the way, the concentrations of these additives are really minimal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and they must not adversely affect health values and therefore consumers' health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u97	Thank you very much, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this session of the Sejm information on the reform of education introduced since 1 September 2017 will be considered, which particularly discriminates against children with disabilities, which was presented by the Polish People's Party's Parliamentary Club. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Urszula Pasławska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's been two weeks since the beginning of the school year. During this time, parents of disabled children, local government officials and teachers addressed us, so the subject of today's information is simply the result of concrete experiences and specific cases. Very many cases of exclusion, travel problems or lack of resources for local governments have been reported. I'm going back to the disabled kids. One of the fundamental tasks of a democratic state is to defend the weakest. Social solidarity is the foundation of the modern world's order, which is why it is so sad and appalling for us that education reform has hit the weakest students with disabilities the most. We have chaos in schools, overcrowded classes, second shifts, no textbooks or forced circuit changes. However, this is nothing compared to chaos, lack of speech, uncertainty in the case of children with special educational needs. The government reform by regulation of 9 August closed the way for students with autism or Asperger's team to individual education in mass schools. Over 22,000. young people have been sentenced to isolation from their peers in the form of individual teaching at home since next school year. Meanwhile, I think every educator in Poland knows that these disorders are mainly characterised by problems in social life. Leaving a child with Asperger in contact with his peers will quickly lead to a worsening of dysfunction and thus reduce his chances of independence and adulthood. Were you aware, at the Ministry of Education, of the consequences of the regulation? If you don't know what's going on, it's usually about money. The subsidy to a student with autism, Asperger or other disabilities combined today is approximately 9.5 times higher than to a healthy student. This solution was won by the parents of such pupils and the previous governments respected these demands because the aim is to improve the future of these children. Is the government trying to take money to educate children who are not self-inflicted in need of more expensive education? How does this apply to the ethical provisions of the programme, for which the government wants to pay 4,000. for giving birth to a child with a disability, so that he can't be properly cared for later? In addition, 50,000. students with the deepest disabilities lost a minimum of 3 years of education as a result of the reform, 3 years of education, because the government did not extend the training school to work, the only possible educational path after primary school for students with the deepest disorders. The Minister took care of the extension of the high schools, but it seems that children with disabilities have forgotten. I don't think it's necessary to explain how much every year of schooling means to such students. Here they have rehabilitation, rehabilitation, speech therapy and training of social skills, and some even learn simple works. And it's not true that disabled people can learn until they're 24 as often as we hear them. It's just an indication of the maximum age of your stay at school. A student with disabilities, like any other student, can learn for as long as his educational path can be extended by one year at any stage of education. After the reform it will actually be so that the student at the age of 15 will graduate from primary school. He will be able to extend it for a year, and then at the age of 16, he will go to a three - year - old school to prepare for work. Up to the age of 20, after the extension, he will end up in four walls of the house. Another question: Why has the Ministry of Education complicated and extended the way to obtain an opinion on the need for special education? Earlier, the school could easily direct a student with a disorder to a psycho-pedagogical clinic and obtain such a decision, and thus money for specialized assistance. Now the school has to deal with such a student and lead the so-called MEN imposed. Functional diagnosis, not giving money for this purpose. Why did this happen? There may be two reasons: either the ministry works people without empathy, but I don't really believe it, or it's decided to save on children with disabilities because they don't grow enough because it's too expensive to invest in their education. Why does the Government of Law and Justice stress that it supposedly cares about people, children with disabilities? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u99	Thank you, Member. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Mrs Marzena Machalek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Member of the Applicant, Unfortunately, I regret to say that in this speech we have just heard, there is again a complete confusion of concepts and situations. I'm very sorry to say this. On the other hand, I am pleased to be able to translate, translate and translate patiently, but again to ask not to scare children, not to scare the parents of children with special educational needs, because it is unethical. First of all, I suggest you get to know all the solutions carefully. If there are any further questions, we will answer them, but I would ask that it does not have an dimension of the performance, but that it results from a real concern for all children, about children with special educational needs, about disabled children, about sick children. I will start by saying that it is a complete misunderstanding to say that children with disabilities, including Asperger's syndrome, autism or bonds, are children who do not have the opportunity to learn with their peers and at school. It's the other way around. We want to get away from what's been going on so far, which is... [[Why?]] Because it wasn't good. If the question has been asked, I will be happy to answer it. [[Now it's great...]] This was discriminatory because it caused a completely bad phenomenon: children with a judgment on the need for special education, in order to have what is guaranteed by the legislation, had to obtain an additional ruling on individual teaching. I repeat once again - I also repeat this to you - that a child who has a ruling on the need for special education does not have to go second to the decision to have individual classes at school. If this has not been the case so far and parents have been sent for an additional certificate, it was simply an irregularity. [[The problem with organizing this.]] All the changes we make must be read together, all four regulations... [[Yeah, you do.]] ...both about individual teaching and the organisation of psychological and pedagogical assistance, about the organisation of education for children with disabilities or socially unfit or threatened with social impropriety, and about case law. All these regulations were created in consultation with children. I'll say it again... [[Disabled.]] With the parents, with the parents of the disabled children. [[I mean, nobody.]] And now what you're... I understand that there may be some embarrassment that actually... You can't manipulate your parents' feelings... [[Exactly.]] ...adults who face the difficulties of raising a child every day, who require additional care. Now let me say this: these new regulations are primarily intended to serve the so-called. Inclusive education... [[But they're not, Minister.]] ...including education, i.e. so that a disabled child can be with his/her peer, and if necessary, he/she has individual activities. Please also note that increased importance for education of children with disabilities in schools, e.g. this basic weight plus 9.5 times the basic weight for children e.g. with a disability combined with Asperger's syndrome or autism, they are just about to organize an individual educational and therapeutic program at school. Individual educational and therapeutic program at school... [[From the moon...]] ...as I said today, I'll repeat, it's being prepared on the basis of a ruling on how this education is supposed to look. Teachers and their parents are preparing this, and it's supposed to be at school. The child will not be excluded outside his peer group in individual classes, alone with the teacher, having contact with his peers only at a break. [[Now they won't even go out for a break.]] Individual teaching is aimed at sick children who cannot attend school. A disabled child can also be sick, so then, if necessary, he has teaching at home. A teacher comes to him and teaches lessons. At any time, this individual teaching may be suspended at the request of the parents, after certification that the health has improved. The child, on the other hand, if he is ill, but the disease only makes it difficult for him to go to school, is involved in various aspects of school life, is involved in the school's life. We predicted, talking to our parents, all the situations, and we also predicted a situation where the child is sick, but it doesn't require him to be at home. Then it's based on... [[Based on what?]] ...on the basis of the Psychological and Pedagogical Aid Regulation - I encourage you to read this - organized individualised educational path, educational path. As part of this path may have individual classes... [[Maybe.]] ...and may have class in the group. [[Exactly.]] I'm sorry. That comes from regulations. If you think that it is possible not to pursue the law, if you think that it is possible to take shortcuts, then we say that we will not be with parents, that we will be with children with disabilities, that we will make sure that this education is organized properly, that it serves the welfare of children. I regret that some may not understand - and some already understand very well - that these solutions are good, that they are correct, that in fact some were already, that we really didn't... We're not doing a revolution, we're just putting this system in order, giving parents and children greater and better learning opportunities within the framework of the so-called. inclusive education. [[That's not true.]] That's not good enough. I would like to make it clear here that we are working very closely with international organisations and those standards that we are introducing, these are standards developed in the framework of international cooperation. I suggest you watch how this happens in Europe. You will see that these standards are moving as far as possible towards European standards. It is not true that we restrict the education of children with disabilities, even the opposite. [[I wish my parents could see that.]] I think... Here she sits Mrs Wargock and she knows it very well, because she is also a minister. prepared those solutions that came into force. We've prepared the so-called. Auxiliary professions - Auxiliary professions for children with disabilities. We do not want children to be confined only to the education system, but we want them to be really involved in social and professional life. [[You've locked them in the house for now.]] So the auxiliary competitions are here. There's an assistant locksmith, carpenter, mechanic, tailor, hairdresser's assistant. And we're bringing in the next contest. We see a kid in school... [[You've locked them in the house for now.]] ...we see them with our peers, but we also see them in adult life. I understand that it's hard to admit mistakes, and some people, when they were in charge of education, just went easy. [[Applause]] Again... [[Tell that to your parents.]] And I'll talk. First of all, I am directing this to my parents today so that they are calm, because the rules are primarily designed to improve quality... [[But they're already restless.]] ...children's education, and we have taken particular care of children who need support, children with special educational needs. What I'm saying is that we've prepared a new programming base and textbooks and educational materials. We provide training, they are run by the Education Development Centre. It's teacher training for educators. [[You're just on schedule.]] We want you to... We're talking about the so-called right now. Functional diagnosis, because these are our further plans. We believe that we need to move away from such medical disability classification, because it focuses more on determining what the child is, and call it, diagnose it, not determine how to work with the child. That's why ICF and I work out the so-called. functional diagnosis - already these elements are in regulations - to see a child at school to see how a child works with his peers to know the reasons for this condition, but also to know how to work with a child. It is a huge job, a huge job and staff of the Ministry, and associations, and centres that work with the Ministry to introduce a modern, but also an empathetic system of working with children with special educational needs. I've already had one... [[What about the money and the teachers? What about extra lessons for these kids?]] The money is. Minister, I suggest you show that you have received your education and do not interrupt when someone... You'll have a chance to speak. The money is, which I've already talked about many times. [[Where?]] They're included in the subsidy. That's 9.5 times more for a child with a disability. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Nine-five, we gave it.]] That is not enough, we write it down in the Education Law Act and provide guarantees in the Education Finance Act. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! Let's really take care of all the kids and...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u101	Yes. Thank you, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: ...and let's show patience, let's not take shortcuts because... Minister, thank you very much. You'll still have time... Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: ...children with disabilities expect us to really... ...to close the discussion. Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: ...they worked for them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the floor? I therefore close the list of speakers. And now we have a classic dilemma. We have 60 minutes for this part of the debate, and 42 Members have come forward, and I would therefore suggest - and the question is whether you agree - to limit your speeches to 1.5 minutes. I don't hear any objections. [[Voices from the O.R.: Okay, yeah.]] Great. That's what everyone should fit in. Then I'll open the discussion. And you have the floor of Dariusz Piontkowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u102	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Once again, we're actually talking about the same subject. Several minutes ago, one of the current questions on the subject ended, and we also discussed it in May and June. At the time, the Minister explained to the Members of the total opposition present in the Chamber the organisation of teaching for children with special needs. She made it clear that individual teaching primarily concerns sick children, those who are physically unable to attend school classes and need home education, individual meetings with a teacher. For children with disabilities, who for mental, but also physical reasons are able to attend school classes, individual therapy programmes or an individualised learning path have been prepared. You don't get it. There are, like, two answers to this situation. [[You don't get what people say, parents, teachers, directors.]] Either you are unable to understand, or you do not want to understand it just to bring chaos and lead total propaganda. [[You're the ones who bring chaos.]] Madam, I try not to disturb you. I'm also asking for the same thing. Culture in this room also applies. The second solution only shows your cynicism, is that... [[You guys are cynical.]] ...to achieve the propaganda effect you are able to play the fate of children with disabilities, those who are unable to take care of themselves. You even cheat with absolute numbers, for example with educational grants for disabled children, which are greatly increased. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You don't want to admit it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u103	Thank you very much. And now Mrs Krystyna Shumilas of the Civic Platform. I am very happy for you because you will be able to speak from the speaker rather than shout from the jury.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Well, you are a totally satisfied government that doesn't hear, doesn't see. And don't tell me, because what you're saying is that we've already seen you fire teachers in the chaos that reigns in school. You say your parents know. I'm the one who's gonna read the sentence of the mother of 14-year-old Cuba: My 14-year-old kid came out with a clinic with tears in his eyes. Cuba has learned that the government has introduced regulations that prohibit him from studying at school, to study at home. Teachers will come to him. I don't want him to show up at school. At the end of the summer, the parents of their children in individual education learned that their children were not allowed in school territory. And that's a fact. This is what happens in the Polish education system. [[What kind of school is this?]] My sick child, says Cuba's mother, was separated from the teachers she knew, from her friends and colleagues she met every day, and was imprisoned at home only because she was sick. Those aren't my words, those are the words of the mother of 14-year-old Cuba, who found out at the end of the summer that the school for him was closed. And as far as the Minister is concerned, the school principal has six regulations that have been signed in the last days of school, and there is not a penny to organize additional lessons for children at school. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Disabled. You talk about fiction, we talk about life. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u105	Thank you very much. Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u106	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! As a correction: we do not cause chaos and we do not scare the parents, we try to ask you and the government questions that your parents are asking us because either they do not understand this country's law-correcting and ordering, or they do not understand these laws, or they simply encounter another reality in schools. First question. We are talking about the additional weights planned for organising an individual educational and therapeutic programme in schools. My question is, who controls how this money is spent? There are many schools, there are many such cases where parents are aware that they go to school for their children, but they have never seen this money spent on their children. It's just that there are situations where the school takes money and somehow He spends it so much that the money doesn't go to a particular child. Since the head of the institution should enable individual students to attend certain classes with a peer group, how can the problem of both sides of the school be solved? Who's responsible for this? Who should finance such transportation, whether it's a facility or a caretaker? What is expected when one lesson falls in the morning and the other in the afternoon? Would the child be coming home for that time, or would he be waiting at a school in a crowded living room? Who and to what extent would care for these children in time between the two classes? Are schools adapted, are there adapted rooms, or is there room for changing diapers for children who are very often in need of this kind of help? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do we have staff specialized in taking care of these children? Such very detailed questions are a whole lot, Minister. I'd appreciate your answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u108	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask the Minister why you have decided that the cost of transport will only be reimbursed to the municipalities if the children are transported to the nearest facility and not to the facility chosen by their parents, the one that suits them best, because the parents have the possibility that they can choose the one that suits them best. What is the reason for this, and is this a good solution? And the second thing, the second question, more general, about people with disabilities. I think this should sound here today in this discussion and the responsible should hear it. Well, in the election campaign, you promised the PiS that you were professionally caring for people with disabilities. Today, the situation is that older people with disabilities come from year to year, there are longer queues in ZOLs, which really is a big problem for local communities, for elderly people with disabilities. Are you going to solve this problem, or was it just an election promise? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u109	Thank you. Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u110	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Disability is a condition, not a disease. In this case, the solutions must be flexible. A child with a disability should simply be with his peers at school. If necessary, the child should have tailor-made classes, re-education classes, psychology and pedagogical classes, or with the participation of a tutor. Minister, are there funds in the budget to carry out classes in an individual form and not just in the form of individual teaching? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u111	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Ewa Drozd.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u112	Mr. Marshal! Minister! It's not enough to appeal. It's neither nice to talk about your dreams, about your inclusive school, nor even write them down in imprecise regulations. Rather, they should be based on in-depth analysis and real basis for their implementation. Unfortunately, it's not. And it is not only that they have brought nothing good, but - as it is in your custom - it will destroy it, instead of perfecting, the past many years' achievements. I know what I'm saying, Minister, because for many years I myself have prepared an institution for integration so that not only occasionally, but also as far as possible children with decisions can carry out their school duties, feel full-fledged members of the school community, because this is an important element in their education. Today you shut them down. Does the Minister know that there are students of integration classes who will have to stop their education because they received a decision from the clinic after 1 September this year? Do you know that frightened parents, disoriented, are more likely to choose individual teaching at home than an uncertain individual path of development dependent on financial opportunities, infrastructure of a given institution and municipality, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And also discretionaryly from the director? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u113	Thank you. Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! First of all, it was a mistake to introduce a new regulation at a time when there is general chaos resulting from the whole education reform. It is a mistake to deepen this chaos by introducing solutions that have not yet been tried. I understand it's all overlapping. Everyone knows that the fate of a child who is disabled, because of this disability, his illness, is difficult. It is a fundamental mistake to make this difficult because of his inability to communicate with his peers, even in such a limited form as being present in some classes. I understand that sometimes it is in such a way that good intentions are paved with hell, that perhaps the intentions of the authors of this regulation were completely different, but we know the results. We already know that parents come forward, who say that they have been given a decision that their child will not be able to attend classes at school, that they are very concerned about it. I would therefore like to ask a question which is not political, but is purely constructive. Do you intend to amend this regulation and adapt it to your parents' expectations? Are you going to adjust the state of affairs so that children can participate as much as possible in school if their health makes this possible? Do you want to learn from what is happening at the moment from those comments that parents have? And when are you going to do all this? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u115	Thank you. Mrs Genowefa Tokarska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u116	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The issues of children with disabilities are very close to me. I maintain, you can say, constant contact with parents of children with disabilities, hence the questions I am going to raise come from parents of children with disabilities, but also from counsellors and schools. First question: Is it true that the government intends to look for savings in grants for education of children and young people with disabilities, reducing the so-called. the importance of subsidies, just as this has already been done with subsidies for such children in kindergartens? Second question: Is it even possible to correct the new Education Law and the regulation of the Minister of National Education of 7 August restoring the principles of education for pupils with disabilities before the reform? I have to say, my parents were happy with those laws. And the third question: How will the opinions of psychology and pedagogical clinics be financed, on the basis of which individualisation of teaching will be conducted? I have listened carefully to the Minister's answers to further questions and they really are very vague. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Minister does not refer to the law, the regulations and thus allows for a loose interpretation, and in fact not only the question of trust comes into account, but the established law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u117	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Kryj. There's no envoy? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] This is Mr Józef Lassota.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u118	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! When you listen to the expression, indeed very sweet and so nicely transmitted, of course with the appropriate pins as usual, it seems that there is no problem. There's no problem, everything's elegant, everything's better, we're making a good change. However, as is evident from the statements, and from the observation, and also from the conversations with parents who are often affected by this misfortune, if they have children who are not fully functional, it is quite different. I would actually like to appeal to the Minister for such reflection, because you represent the Ministry of National Education - national education. If it is that a representative of this ministry presents something that is not true, then this education goes completely the other way. It is also a matter of trust, trust in those who decide the fate of children, about education. Example of introduction of so-called education reform has shown how you approach it. Second thing. It's the propaganda that's being done. One last example, for example, with a billboard scandal. Suddenly, it turns out that it was neither the PiS nor the government nor anybody else, only the Prime Minister had this company at the very beginning. You're retreating because it turns out these are things that are unacceptable. A call to the Minister: a little reflection and a little self-respect. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u119	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u120	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Dear Minister, Parents of disabled children as well as employees of occupational therapy workshops obliged me to ask the question. Here it is. Don't you think that the Minister should create a system of support for children and young people with disabilities consisting of well-understood forms of cooperation between kindergarten, special school, environmental self-help home, occupational therapy workshops and a professional activity centre? The programme is currently being implemented. During consultation meetings, therapy instructors and teachers present their proposals. And that's where the second question comes in. Do you not think that it would be good for the Minister to invite him to the Parliamentary Committee. people and conduct a widely understood public consultation? The purpose of the consultation would be to create the correctness of forms of education and rehabilitation, as well as to develop the status of a teacher and instructors of occupational therapy. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Polak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u122	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We are all fully aware of the importance for a disabled student of continuing learning and growing up in the environment of his peers, which is also an irreplaceable lesson in learning social functions and further coexistence among people. I also think that it is a lesson for children with disabilities, who have been learning from their early years of mutual tolerance and sensitivity and solidarity and social relations with people who, despite their dysfunction, are full students and citizens. But I would like to ask the Minister, even though the Minister has said this many times: Can the reform introduced this year in school really stop this natural and desirable process of learning co-existence in the everyday life of disabled children and vice versa? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u123	Thank you. Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u124	Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, Can't you see that you're on your own and that you're on your own? But could you step out of the ministry, from behind the desk, and meet the parents of those children who today cannot teach individually in schools? And don't tell me you're not. Minister Shumilas cited the example of life taken. She was talking about her mom, who was devastated, who was talking about the tears of 14-year-old Cuba. Why can't this 14-year-old Cuba be with her peers at school today? Why is that? After all, during these famous eight years he studied at school. So what's going on today that he can't do it? Who's lying? Are you lying or is the counsellor lying or is the school lying or is this parent lying? Is this kid being cheated? What is it? Minister, who's right? I ask you very much to contact me, to lean over these parents, these disabled children, so that they can go back to school. Maybe you should contact the Rasist and Xenophobic Behavior Monitoring Centre, because that's where your mom and her kid came in, and so are the other parents. Why don't you go out there and talk to them, because life is yours, and you're on your own. You guys are totally happy and you're saying it's wonderful. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Well, it's not great, because the kids have tears in their eyes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u125	Mr Paweł Bejda. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have three questions. First of all, what were the reasons for eliminating the possibility of individual teaching in schools? It is the separation of students with autism or Asperger's syndrome from healthy peers and their conviction for social isolation. Second question: Why didn't the Ministry of National Education extend schooling time for students with deeper disabilities, even though schooling in high school has increased? And the third question. The Lifetime Programme does not include a record of children with disabilities expected by families, it is about introducing work opportunities on contract contracts for mothers receiving care services, just as they can earn mothers on parental leave. Does the government see a chance to make this much-needed change? We ask you to present your arguments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u127	Thank you very much. Mrs Catherine Czochar.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u128	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The Ministry of National Education listened attentively for many months to all proposals concerning the organisation of education for pupils with special educational needs, including individual teaching. The only reason for individual education should be because of a disease that makes it difficult to attend school. Individual teaching is the ultimate solution. Minister, my question is: Is the regulation on the conditions for the organisation of education, education and care for children and young people with disabilities who are not socially adapted and who are at risk of non-compliance explicitly suggesting the possibility of such training? Are there provisions in the regulation on the individual teaching of children and young people taking into account the possibility of organising different forms of participation in school life? Did the Ministry ensure that, in addition to compulsory educational activities at the student's home, if the state of health permits it, integrate the student into his environment and provide him with the right conditions for development? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u129	Thank you. Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Education among peers is a unique opportunity for children with disabilities to develop social skills. Now it's taken away from them. They are doomed to be alone at home, and without friendship with their peers their social skills will be disturbed in the future. This is a heartless move by the government towards disabled children. Their proper development is at stake. And don't lie, stop lying. How does this apply to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disabilities, which Poland ratified five years ago? In turn the environment of disabled children in the future will be isolated from people with disabilities. Your reckless, hasty changes and regulations have led to enormous chaos in the education of disabled pupils. School heads who turn to us don't know how to organize it. Can they, as promised by the Minister, organize individual teaching at school premises, or only in groups, or only at home? Our education was in a mess that wasn't there. There's gonna be massive social damage. If you're not ashamed of saving up for [[♪ The bell ♪]] Disabled children? Why are you lying and misleading public opinion? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u131	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Latos.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'll start with the last sentences of my predecessor, just point them at a different address. Why do you lie like that and mislead the public? The state is simply manipulating the facts. If you look at all of this, from the point of view of the organisation of teaching in special education, there have actually been no such changes that you are talking about. There is the possibility of both individual teaching in such cases, as has been the case so far, and functioning at school, as has been the case so far. I can honestly say that I was hoping that this discussion would be substantive in terms of programming. Wouldn't the Minister - and I'm going to ask - take more into account technology in schools than physics or chemistry? I'm asking because for many of these kids or graduates of these schools, it's really necessary. Is it possible to make changes in terms of revalidation? To be honest, I thought there was going to be a discussion around it, not a problem that was duped for a good cause. I must tell you that tears can be observed in the eyes of the child also in cases where someone was forced, perhaps according to what you are proposing, to be kept up to the middle school in general school and there was rejected by his peers because of not physical impairment, but some mental impairment, whether moderate or significant. This is the problem, and for this purpose special education should be created and created, which, unfortunately, the state seems not to notice. When we talk about individual teaching, it is often also in such cases. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u133	Thank you. Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Speaker! I would like to address one thing in your opinion. Well, I want to tell you that I'm amazed at something else. And that is my reference to the Minister's statement. You spoke very well, that's how you should talk about children with disabilities. So what if you're missing out on what you're doing? Minister! Since you're saying that we don't understand if the teachers understand, the school heads don't understand, they don't mix these regulations, maybe we need to make a difference so that it's good for the kids. After all, we all care about the welfare of children, especially children who already have problems in their lives, especially children with disabilities. I want to tell you as a teacher with many years of experience, and I have also worked with such children, that it was wonderful for them to interact with their peers at school. If you take this away from them, and unfortunately this is what it looks like today, these children will have a problem with socialization and then find themselves well in our society, but also children who are full-time children will not be able to act, behave, feel this right empathy if they are not raised together with children who are children with disabilities. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: We are introducing this, Member.]] Minister, I'm afraid that's what you're not doing. That's why my request to you is this: please analyze it and create such records to make them clear, [[♪ The bell ♪]] have been defined for everyone and have been beneficial for our children. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u135	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Paul.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u136	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! PSL and the PO accuse the Government of Law and Justice that the situation of children with disabilities at school in our country has recently deteriorated. To prove that this is a disgusting lie and hypocrisy, I will give you an example of the city and municipality of Nowa Sarzyna. I'm telling you the facts. Currently, in the 2017/2018 school year, thanks to the support of the Government of Law and Justice, three integration branches began to operate in the municipality. So far, there hasn't been any money for one of these. Next: Under PO and PSL, the municipality could not afford to hire a single supporting teacher. Thanks to the help of the Government of Law and Justice in the municipality of Nowa Sarzyna in the school year 2017/2018, six teachers supporting pupils with disabilities work. Then: each student in the municipality with any dysfunction is included in the revalidation classes, all pupils. This year a special kindergarten was also established for children in need of additional, specialized support, run by an association, which works closely with and is supported by the municipality. High Seym! I believe that the political capital of POs and PSLs is a lying game on the feelings of children with disabilities... [[They could have done it five years ago.]] ...and their families defy elementary decency. I have a question: Can the Minister indicate the amount of aid allocated to education for disabled children at national level this year? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But the regulations haven't changed here.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u137	Thank you. Mr Paweł Bańkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u138	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! During the national inauguration of the school year... [[Speech outside the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u139	Mr Paweł Bańkowski has the floor now. Don't jamm your friend. [[But the Member didn't mean it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u140	During the national inauguration of the 2017/2018 school year in Dobrzechow in Podkarpacie, Minister Zalewska said: We need inclusive education. Each child is to pursue his or her ambitions, his or her purposes. Inclusion education is nothing more than child support with special needs. It's supposed to be in school, and we adults have to learn it patiently. Minister! How do these words relate to the heartless regulation published at the end of August of the Minister of National Education, which just kills dreams of inclusive education and introduces segregation into schools, division into healthy and disabled children? Please inform us how many children with disabilities by decision of Minister Zalewska were not admitted to schools and forced to stay in their homes to pursue the curriculum without their peers. Please inform me how many such children have been branded by the Law and Justice Government in the Silesian Voivodeship. I'm asking for that information in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u141	Thank you. Mrs Urszula Rusecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I want to believe that everyone in this Chamber agrees that a disabled student, sick or having a problem with school functioning, must be provided with comprehensive assistance. Unfortunately, after the statements of the Members of the total opposition, I have a different impression. [[You're totally lying.]] You're putting politics where it's not supposed to be. New solutions adopted by the Ministry are the result of many consultations with parents and specialists in this field. If it had been as great as you say so far, these changes would not have been necessary. How'd it go so far? A child with ADHD, which caused problems, was best to turn off and give him individual teaching, not introduce a tutor to assist. These were your solutions. What about funding? [[But there's a supporting teacher.]] Minister, would you mind disturbing me? [[Then tell me the truth.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u143	I join Mrs Urszula Rusecka's request that both Mrs Shumilas and the other members of all the clubs do not disturb those who speak from the Seym Chamber. Of course, I add that time to Mrs Rusecka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u144	Thank you very much, Marshal. Hasn't it been like this so far, and I know what I'm saying, that the subsidy and the weight that went on a disabled child in integration classes fell into the same bag? It wasn't marked money. How were they used? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Since 2014 they have been marked.]] Changes that are... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u145	Madam, we are talking about children affected by the disease... [[Don't lie to me, Marshal.]] ...what ADHD is. Don't act like children affected by this disease in the Seym. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u146	Changes that are being made... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u147	Member, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u148	...in cooperation with their parents, they are tasked with locating a student to a peer group. [[Switching on.]] Switching on. I have a question for the Minister: did the Ministry take... What kind of action has the Ministry taken, and what will it take, in relation to the dissemination of information on new solutions in the field of education for children with disabilities? Because as we can see, not all of you in this room wanted to read the regulations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u149	Thank you, Member. Mrs Bożena Kamińska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u150	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Listening to these statements, I have the impression that the government of Law and Justice is absolutely pleased with the harm that children with disabilities are being harmed, [[Applause]] which has touched them since September 4th, since this school year. Minister! After all, we all know how we are here, we have our families, we have friends, we also have disabled children in our families, who are sent to schools, that there is no place for them. It's hard even for children to be healthy now, so to speak, to have normal learning conditions because they learn in the system of changeability. We returned to the years of the Polish People's Republic with our education, unfortunately. Children with disabilities have been sentenced to a home. That's the truth. In addition, their parents were forced to stay at home with them and provide 24/7 care. Minister! Where's the idea of equalizing opportunities? Where is the possibility that these children will learn human relationships? Who will they be friends with, conflict, learn to solve these conflicts? I have a question for you, and we started the school year. Please indicate the number of children with disabilities who benefit from schools in the school area when it comes to children with disabilities in the individual course of teaching. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're not here at all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u151	Thank you. Member of the European Parliament... Excuse me, Mr Antoni Duda. [[Mr. Member.]] Mr. Member, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u152	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the Education Act, education grants are calculated in a special way for children with special educational requirements, depending on their needs there is a different weight, and must be spent on disabled children by the local government. Question: "Was it so clearly defined so far?" Have local governments interpreted this in a clear way? Has the current law clarified this issue? So will money now have to be spent to meet the needs of children with special educational needs, and local governments will have to settle this? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u153	Thank you. Mr Szymon Ziółkowski. There's no envoy. Mrs Teresa Wargock.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u154	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, We are ending the questioning and debate. It is difficult to address some substantive issues in such an atmosphere, but I wanted to make very clear about the basic issue. The State of the Civic Platform and PSL take action absolutely unworthy. For 8 years, you were responsible for organising child care training with special educational needs. [[That's why we let them study at school.]] What you left behind in your work requires an absolutely good organization, good cooperation with your parents and, above all, fulfilling this request of your parents, about whom you have heard for eight years... [[Yeah, you should've listened.]] ...to finance the organisation of special education in a manner that is appropriate to the needs of young people and to introduce a specific education, an education that will provide... [[It's on.]] [[It's on.]] ...including, education that will provide every child with a disability and with special educational needs a place in the general school. [[That's why you're locking them in now.]] The government and the ministry carry out these tasks with an iron consequence. [[Locking the kids in the house.]] Minister Shumilas says that in 2014 there was a record, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which led to school money for disabled children, but it was the Law and Justice that introduced this provision into the Education System Act, into the Education Law, and in this law, over which we will proceed, we impose a way of settlement of this money by local governments. [[It's a good thing you're replicating our proposals.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u155	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u156	No, we're not. We're doing it... Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński: Mrs... ...that you haven't done in eight years.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u157	Thank you, it is time, Madam Member. Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u158	Thank you, Marshal. I must say, I am very sadly listening to what you say today, Minister. I don't think it's a good idea to turn it on. It's not a right thing to do. [[The voice from the hall: But malice.]] You have to speak correct Polish when you're a teacher. The teacher is required to do more. [[Teachers must speak Polish.]] From yourself in that case, too. But I would like to say that this total satisfaction of the government does not translate into what parents and children feel. And don't believe these propagandists of yours -- you, Members of the PiS, don't believe -- that if the Minister says it's great, cool, parents and children will believe it, because the reality is squawking. [[Eight years.]] Saying that the opposition brings chaos, that it manipulates facts - and only you can shout, insult, instruct, tell people to read with understanding - will not help. This propaganda isn't gonna help. The reality is, today you make children with disabilities... [[Voice from the room: Nothing will help you.]] ...they stayed home instead of learning their peers' lives. We hear from one of the Members that children with mental disabilities were forced to be in school. And the teacher says that disability is a state, not a disease. [[Right.]] Well, it's just unbelievable. I can see why, thinking like you, Minister... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[And this isn't a disease?]] ... Legitimately during PiS's first reign, the chronically ill children were thrown out of kindergarten and schools. He said, "You don't have the right to go there, just stay at home." [[Minister Wargock's talking about it, too.]] Minister, I am listening to the debate and what the children say and the mother of Julka who spoke to me. When are you gonna change your attitude towards these kids? When you change it in schools... [[You'll be disappointed.]] ...so those kids can have a chance...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u159	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u160	...as has so far combined school and school, and home.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u161	Thank you, Member. And please take the floor... Member, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u162	Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u163	Mrs Barbara Bartus.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u164	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! After the education reform, we talked about children with disabilities for a long time. And everyone could give their doubts and their advice at the meetings of the Joint Committees of Social Policy and the Education Committee, because these were held. But how do I feel about need, about necessity... [[At our request, and you didn't listen.]] ...this reform, I have already said in my parliamentary statement, because this reform introduced by the current government is very desirable, necessary, necessary even. [[You should have done the referendum.]] On the other hand, I wanted to address the Minister. There are often accusations from the opposition here. on the proper implementation of this reform. And I have this question because I also met with it in my own territory: Shouldn't we restore even more supervision and scope of decisions taken by the curatorium rather than leave everything to the directors and local governments? [[Let the Minister rule the school.]] It is self-governments who influence who is the director, how he does it. And the principal, including the local ghetto... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Let the president go to school.]] ...they often lead to such a situation, that e.g. Some teachers don't have extended employment contracts because they don't like them and others have a lot of overtime. So here I appeal to the Minister: more substantive supervision by the curatorium. Thank you very much. [[Another personnel bill.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u165	Thank you. [[I want you to run every school.]] Mr Marek Rząsa. Excuse me, sir. Dear Members, I really agree with Minister Radziszewska that being a teacher requires... [[Yes.]] ...but let it be noted that being a Member also obliges. Minister, your comments are really formulated from the level, you would like to say, gimbazy, not the former Minister of National Education. [[Don't insult the middle-schoolers.]] These personal tours to the president... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Being a Member of the Sejm also obliges, Member. Mr Marek Rząsa. You're welcome, sir. [[A marshal, too.]] You're welcome, sir. [[Mr. Marshal should have a personal culture, too.]] Please, Mr Marek Rząsa.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u166	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I sympathize with my fellow teachers, because how will they find themselves in a world of conflicting facts, which, put together, become paradoxical? Well, some say that there will be no layoffs, others say that there will be layoffs. Some say that the whole operation is costless and has no problem, others say that costs go into millions and problems pile up. Some say children with special needs can go to school, others say they can't. Where's the truth here? Today the student has unlimited access to knowledge, and the teacher should teach him how to use it skillfully and what I think is most important, how to distinguish grain from chaff, how to distinguish lies from truth. Using a sports dictionary, you could say that a lie is like a sprinter run, comes quickly and immediately achieves an effect, while the truth is like a marathon, you have to come to it for a long time, but it is worth waiting for this truth. And we will wait for the truth, Minister. And she's already showing up. [[Applause]] In my city of Przemyśl, a city ruled by the orthodox PiS, three school heads have the courage to go under the name and accuse the Minister of lying about textbooks. There are no textbooks in Przemyśl in primary schools. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Podkarpacie teacher fired as a result of this reform wins the case in court. I once said from this stand that Minister Zalewska is a gravedigger of Polish education. I was wrong. Well, you cannot bury Polish education, Minister Zalewska, because she will defend the wisdom of parents, teachers, Polish self-governments and those young people who are sitting there at the gallery. Their wisdom Polish education will defend itself. [[The bell, the applause.]] And you are the contemporary Augias. You've soiled Polish education. You are synonymous with sloppyness, mess and chaos.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u167	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u168	And one last question: Why did the new curriculum for kindergartens disappear with reference to the needs of children with special needs? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u169	Thank you. Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u170	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I am very sorry that total opposition is doing politics on children with disabilities. [[Is that what it says? Every time you make an appearance?]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, you can't. On the other hand, I am very pleased that the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło and the Ministry of Education professionally leaned on the problem of children with special educational needs. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is visible both in regulations and in the Education System Act, in the Education Law, as Minister Wargock said. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, sir. Remember what it was like in your government, what those regulations looked like. The priority is that education grants are calculated in a special way for children with special educational needs according to their needs. That's the weight. It wasn't there. [[It was.]] It must be spent professionally and well on a specific child. That wasn't in your day either. That subsidy was badly spent, very often not a disabled child. It shows that their parents came and said that so much money was due on their child, and it was not going on for their child. The rules of law were misinterpreted, which meant that when checks came - the Minister knew exactly - that this education subsidy had to be returned, the municipalities had to pay back that subsidy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That is why I thank you for these regulations and for this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Too bad you're not telling the truth. Mrs Krystyn, as you had such knowledge before, that is a pity.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u171	Thank you. Mrs Kinga Gajewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u172	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Marshal Joachim Brudziński, you must not insult graduates or middle school students. You're just not allowed to do that. Maybe on Twitter, you can apologize to them. On the other hand, when it comes to children with disabilities, please understand our concern. We didn't cut 40% before. financing for home education. The fact that you're insulting us that you're heading towards the invective, we're used to it, but all the anxiety, all the sentences that we've heard, or the letters we've received, come from the parents of people with disabilities. We didn't make this up. Yesterday I got an e-mail from a devastated mother: I am the mother of a disabled child having individual teaching. My daughter has autism, but she's doing very well in her peer environment. It helps her. I can't get her to an integration school 50 km away. When you're at home teaching, your daughter will be completely cut off from society. Please help me. This is one letter. We have the testimony of Mr.Paweł Kubicki, who is from the association of Naughty Children, the next quotes of Mrs. Anna Niedźwiedzki, also from NGOs looking after disabled children. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is not our invention, this is the opinion of parents of children with disabilities. Listen to them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u173	Thank you. Mrs Kingo Gajewska, with your appeal, I would really like to apologize to all middle school students, primary school students, and secondary school students, that unfortunately sometimes, watching the Sejm meetings, dear young people, dear children, you have the impression that some ladies and gentlemen behave worse than children affected by ADHD. I'm very sorry. I'm not gonna apologize on Twitter. [[You're insulting ADHD kids. No class.]] Please, Mrs Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wish that in the Polish Sejm we would see constructive opposition, which will not create chaos and confusion, an opposition that will listen to substantive arguments, not manipulate facts, an opposition that will not use children and their parents, practicing politics, because this is what you do. This is reprehensible. We are all committed to caring for education and education of children and young people, and the group to which special attention should be given are pupils with disabilities and pupils who are chronically ill. [[You lock them in the house.]] [[Lock it in the house.]] And with them in mind, the Ministry of National Education has prepared special solutions to adapt education to their needs, which are developed, which should be emphasized, together with parents and teachers. Minister, is it true that so far, in order for the school to pursue individual teaching, it was necessary to obtain a special ruling from the psych-pedagogical clinic on the need for such teaching? Is it true that such a judgment is not needed today to provide a child with an individual form of teaching? And appeal to the opposition: stop causing confusion. Use the truth. Show me you really want the good kids. Just get to work because you've slept eight years. Start to be substantive and constructive. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Member, don't lie to me. Just start listening to people.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u175	Thank you. Mr Adam Korol. Are you an MP? In that case, Mrs Lidia Burzyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! The High House has already dealt with child education solutions with disabilities on 11 May, and that is very good, because these issues are very, I repeat, very much needed to create a law that will promote these students and their parents, not isolate them. Let me quote here the words spoken in May by the Members of the opposition, and I quote: parents of disabled children demand that their children be treated on an equal footing with the full-fledged. [[That's why you lock them in the house.]] Therefore, my surprise is that from the same side, or opposition, today we hear that these children should be provided with individual teaching, i.e. isolated, not treated on equal terms with full-timers. Individual teaching, please understand this at last and do not give false information, is reserved for a group of students who are temporarily unable to attend school, both for those with disabilities and for those who are temporarily unable to study at school. On the other hand, all other children, as requested in the quoted statement, should be included, I repeat, listen to, involved in schooling, to treat these children on an equal footing with full - time students. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, is this what the regulations in place are for? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u177	Mrs Wasilewska, time is running out, which is why I ask you to take the floor of Mrs Anna Wasilewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u178	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Firstly, I would like to say that I really read all the laws with great understanding, I certainly know the needs of children with disabilities, the needs of their parents, the problems that teachers have, because I spent 23 years in a large school and educational centre for children with disabilities at all levels, from slightly disabled to severely handicapped. And believe me, in the days of the Civic Platform and the PSL, children with disabilities and special schools were really fine. And today the Minister said that many things have already been done and need to be sorted out. And I agree, because only one who doesn't do anything is wrong. Let's sort this out. Let's just do it in a way that doesn't make it chaotic. And today I have questions for the teacher minister who I've been in touch with all the time. First of all, it's about individual educational and therapeutic programs. We have worked on such programs for a long time, they have been monitored, agreed with parents, with therapists. Why do they expire on 1 September 2017 and teachers need to write new ones when there are no implementing rules, to what extent they are to change? If there is a student at a given educational stage, then why is there to be an individual educational and therapeutic program being changed at the moment? [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's first of all. Just one more thing. When special junior high schools were extinguished, extended educational stages were not taken into account, i.e. students will be classified after 2 years of secondary school, which will reduce their learning time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u179	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u180	Think about it and think about what to do. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u181	Mrs Ewa Szymańska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u182	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Maybe what I'm about to talk about will be a little boring, but I'm not gonna get emotional around here. On the subject of implementation from 4 September this year. education reforms and here in this Chamber, and in the media, and at various kinds of meetings with teachers, parents have been discussed and presented in detail. There have also been talk of problems concerning children and young people with special educational needs, including various types of disabilities. I therefore have a question to ask the Minister: Are the laws on education reform introduced, namely Education Law and Educational Law and Regulations on the basis of which the regulations containing legal solutions supporting the reform also take into account the existing legal arrangements for children and young people with special educational needs? And is it true that funding for education for children and young people has been increased more than nine times, including various types of disabilities, children and young people with special educational needs? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u183	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Furgo.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u184	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear Members! You say one thing, you do the other. You're doing experience on a living organism. That's the state we're in right now. Only children who have received a decision on the need for individual teaching before 1 September 2017 will be able to benefit from it on the school premises and with inclusion in the class on the old rules. Individual teaching will only be carried out at home on the basis of judgments after 1 September 2017. The regulation indicates that the head of the institution should allow the student concerned to interact with the peer group and participate in classes. This means that children in individual education can go to certain classes. I wonder what it will look like in practice to include some lessons, especially in the context of transport and care in the school area for a child who has individual teaching at home and only attends selected classes with class. In the morning the student e.g. will he come to a foreign language, then he will be taken home - or not - and brought to the fourth or fifth Polish language lesson, or will he wait in a crowded common room? We still don't know what's gonna happen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] completed teaching at home a student who does not have the conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, whether the child will have one-on-one classes with a teacher or in a small group, the school will decide. Nowhere is it advisable that parents, parents may disagree with such...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u185	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u186	...individual lessons or a transfer of a child from a classroom...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u187	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u188	...to a small group...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u189	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u190	...on selected objects. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u191	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Noblechta.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u192	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As regards the question of whether the new rules on individual education can be abused against children with disabilities, the Ministry has already explained that the school is to provide special support to children with disabilities based on an individual educational and therapeutic programme developed by specialists with the participation of parents. This program may indicate additional individual activities if the child needs to do so. Importantly, this program can be implemented on the school premises. Minister, did the Ministry of National Education provide even individual school students with the possibility of contact with their peers if their health permits? Minister, is it true that individual teaching is intended for children whose state of health does not allow them to attend school? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u193	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Zietniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u194	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Until now, individual special education could have been at school and at home. And that was very good. The new regulation bans individual special education at school. These children have become alienated and do not participate in the socialization process. Parents are terrified of this because they are under an obligation to provide full 24 - hour care. They don't have access to scientific aid that's in schools. They don't have access to specialists who are in schools. A child at school integrates with others, and when he's at home, he won't have it. This regulation is to the detriment not of the school, but of the parents and their children. The regulations on psychological assistance for children with decisions on teaching at home and school are, but do not apply to children with decisions on special education. And that's the problem with special school students. I have a question as to whether there is a chance to change these rules, because parents are simply bitter about this situation. And I say this after consulting with the headmaster of the special school in Brzezie near Gostyń, where I often enjoy being there and listening to what they say about their problems. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u195	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Głuchowski. In that case, please take the floor of Mr Rafał Grupiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u196	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no Minister Zalewska, there is a Minister with whom we have worked on the committee for a time. That's why I'm thinking about one thing. Since much has been said about what is happening today with children with disabilities, what problems parents have, what problems schools have in relation to such and not another form of regulation, I really wanted to ask you about the meeting of our joint committees in June, 8 June, which took place on this matter at the request of the Members of the Civic Platform, where we clearly highlighted all the problems that may arise from the legal situation that you have prepared at the time. In fact, my question is only one and very simple: Why was it not changed despite our discussion then and despite the fact that the Ministry of National Education promised that something would do about it, that it was not as we present it? Simple question, I'd appreciate a simple answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u197	Thank you, sir. Mrs Anna April.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u198	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a short question: Is the system proposed by you so flexible that, in a situation where the health of the child is improved, individual teaching can be suspended relatively quickly and the child can be directed towards inclusive teaching, and what mechanisms allow it to be introduced by you? I ask, I ask for this flexibility, because it guarantees the subjective treatment of the student and his parents. It seems, and results from what parents had previously reported, that this subjective treatment was not there. It was a clear, very well-established principle, where we just lacked this flexibility, because if it was so good, then why was it so bad, why so many parents criticized the previous system, and on the basis of this we developed new rules for students whose health condition requires it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u199	Thank you, Member. And please take the floor of Mrs Ursula Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u200	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Two lines. First of all, I would ask you in your statement to straighten out all the misinformation that was here, that you suddenly increased your money, your conversions, the amounts for children with disabilities, because that is not true. That money... I mean, the conversion is exactly the same as it used to be. Secondly, I would like to ask you to compare the two situations and assess these two situations, which are better. First situation. The child with a decision from the clinic is imported, brought to school, along with his class participates in music, art, PE classes, other classes. He works separately with a teacher, for example. on math or on Polish or on foreign language. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: That's what we do.]] She's spending time with the other kids, she's with these kids, she's just using individual teaching when she needs to, and she's spending the rest of her time with class. And now the second situation. The baby... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: That's what we do.]] ...with the need for individual instruction, she has homework at home. The teacher comes home to him, and only when the principal invites the child, I don't know, for Christmas play or for a joint academy, is he with his peers. A child who is in this school once, twice, three times a year is alienated and is completely removed and deprived of the possibility of being with everyone. And in your statement, Minister, and in the statements of the officials of the Ministry - I quote from the TOK FM [[♪ The bell ♪]] 6 days ago - there is such a comparison: we cannot lock a child in a separate class, because this is alienation. Can we lock them at home? And one more thing. The mother who went to counseling on September 1 received a ruling on individual teaching only at home. So what? [[For the sick child.]] No. For a kid who's been using at school so far. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u201	Thank you, Member. Since the list of persons enrolled in the questions has been exhausted, please take the floor of the representative of the applicants, Ms Urszula Pasławska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u202	Dear Marshal, Minister! Of course, the key moment will be the Minister's answers to the questions, but I would like to say that this discussion today is caused by not politics... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: Hope.]] ...this isn't some kind of club of the Polish People's Party, these are specific examples of parents who have come to us with their problems. I cannot believe that the Minister does not know that some children do not have the opportunity to learn at school on the same conditions as before. This debate was listened to by hundreds of parents from associations - through social media, through direct transmission via seym parties. Unfortunately, they are very concerned because they have not yet received any answers, only such assurances, phrases: it will be better, it will be better, don't worry, for 8 years you have neglected children with disabilities, and now you are disturbing us with our reform. Nobody bothers you with your reform, just don't mess up what we've worked out. No one has yet created an ideal system in which disabled children could benefit from anything they would like under the conditions that are possible throughout the world. But I believe that we should strive to create this system. [[We're in pursuit.]] We should support disabled children in such a way that they are later independent so that they have this opportunity to work on their own, enter into adulthood. Unfortunately, the system you've created is inconsistent, it's illegible, it's just bad. I am sorry that the Minister in her first speech, when she answered my questions, the specific questions that I asked the Minister, and I asked some specific questions, did not answer any of them. Today I expect answers to at least some, but very specific and substantive. The fact that you know better is that we see it, you feel very well. However, today in Poland in many small towns, because I suspect that this problem is more about small towns, there are tragedies in families. And I ask with such empathy, but also humility to approach the subject and answer our questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u203	Thank you, Member. Mr Marzena Machalek, Minister of State at the Ministry of National Education. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u204	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I agree with what the applicant said about education, about children, including children with disabilities, about empathy and humility. And there's no perfect model, but it could be better or worse. And what we said at the beginning, and what I had the opportunity to present to you here, is the fact that these regulations, which were created, resulted from a multi-month discussion with the environments connected with people, with children with disabilities, arose as a result of a discussion with their parents. I understand that parents may be concerned about today's debate because they have no reason not to believe Members who are saying the wrong thing in many cases. And I'm really sorry that instead of empathy, instead of being honest, we're not really saying... [[Oh, we're talking.]] ...or sometimes it comes from a real misunderstanding. We're talking here, in this room... [[You confessed to the minister.]] ...and I identify myself, well, Minister, I identify with the High House, and I am sorry when the words are false in the High House. And now it's concrete, because you're talking about specifics, so I'm gonna talk again, and I'm gonna say it again. If I do not answer all the questions here, I will answer them again in writing because I am unable to answer all the questions today. Students with disabilities do not need, I say again, individual teaching decisions to have individual classes at school. § 6 of the Regulation on the organisation of special education - a decision on the need for special education is sufficient and an individual educational and therapeutic programme is prepared, which can be implemented in the classroom as well as in an individual form. So please don't scare your parents and don't tell them the truth. I ask: Are those who say that all children with disabilities must be on individual teaching, or do you really want to discriminate against children with disabilities? [[We're talking about the ones that are.]] After all, what sounds in your questions is the desire to discriminate against children with disabilities. Today is the fact that a child with disabilities... Disability may be accompanied by illness, disability may be due to illness, but disability in itself is not a disease and the child does not need to be at home on an individual basis if he is disabled. [[But what's it like?]] It is covered by an individual educational and therapeutic programme. I say again: § 6 of the Regulation on the organisation of special training. On the other hand, this child, who is sick, who cannot go to school - we say: he cannot, because this is decided by the doctor - or has difficult going to school, has individual teaching at home. [[And you're locking that baby in the house.]] But § 10, 11, 12, Minister, the individual education regulation says that being at home because of illness can be suspended if this disease subsides. [[But he's suspended, and when he's home, he's home.]] I understand that you don't want to understand, but maybe you don't mind, because there are people who want to understand, they really want to understand, unlike you. And we haven't forgotten... [[You told those kids not to go to school.]] ...and here I'm talking about § 12 regulations on the organisation and provision of psychological assistance, on pupils who are ill but may be at school. I repeat: § 12 of the Regulation on the organisation and provision of psychological assistance. The individualised learning path is on a similar basis and funding is on a similar basis. Before that, there was individual teaching, so it's in subsidies. On the other hand, individual educational and therapeutic programmes result from increased subsidy weights up to 9,5 times the basic weight. [[They always have been.]] That is why it is not possible, and I will answer you here immediately, Mrs, and that is why it is unacceptable for a child who is disabled and has a disability ruling to be locked at home. She's supposed to be with her peers at school. Once again, it's supposed to be with her peers at school as part of a class together... [[Wasn't it?]] ...and as part of individual classes. And so it is... [[That's what happened.]] ...as part of an individual educational and therapeutic program for which there is separate money. The amount of the subsidy, I would like to say, is between 13 and 56 thousand. per year. [[Here's what happened.]] Therefore, 6.4 billion is a subsidy for children with disabilities. And that money... [[It's always been like this.]] Mr. Marshal, could you back me up, 'cause I'm here...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u205	I could, my fellow Member, but I don't think it's possible. Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: It's kind of hopeless. [[Don't lie to me, that's enough.]] You're welcome. [[Tell me the truth.]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: It was 6.4 billion in 2015, 6.8 billion in 2016, in 2017. - over 7 billion. [[What was it in 2010, 2011, 2012?]] Since it was often the case that the parents reached for individual teaching in a situation where the individual educational and therapist programme was not organised in an appropriate way, we wrote down in the Education Law the obligation of the local government to give the money it receives for a child with disabilities to be spent in an amount of not less than the amount that the child received for it from an increased weight in a given calendar year. [[Yes, sir.]] As it was perhaps difficult to settle, in the Education Task Finance Act we create a record that tells us what specific activities and activities will be financed by subsidies and will be settled. [[And how much was it in 2014?]] This is also the answer to the demands of parents, associations that said: this is a good program that you have prepared, but we want a guarantee that money will be spent on it. Therefore, these guarantees are. [[They were already recorded in 2014.]] They weren't written. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[They were.]] Minister, really, I don't want to reach for the rules... [[Just tell the truth.]] All you have to do is behave calmly. [[You have to tell the truth.]] Look, I really don't want to reach for the usual articles to get you cleaned up, so for the last time, please. Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: So first of all, it was in the discussion. Secondly, a disabled child does not need to have a decision on individual teaching in order to have individual classes at school. A sick child can use two roads, so home activities with suspension of these classes or may be in school on an individualized learning path. Of course, money is provided for all of this and there are mechanisms in the law that will allow local governments to account for whether these tasks have been fulfilled. I say this primarily to parents who today may be concerned, listening to Members who, I have this impression, do not want children who are disabled to be together with their peers in the classroom. [[You can insult us.]] In a situation where someone is opposed to having a child at school and being taught as part of an individualized educational and therapeutic program, and says that only individual teaching is a good solution... [[Nobody says that.]] ...then I think that at this point this person either doesn't know exactly what teaching is or has bad will. I just want to believe he doesn't understand. I would like to assure you that we have taken particular care to solve the problems of children with special educational needs, both from the point of view of education and from the organizational and financial side. You have also asked questions as to whether there is a changed basis. So the basis and all the regulations that concern programmes and education are, of course, adapted. Individual educational and therapeutic programmes need not be changed, but adapted. I think it's always worthwhile to modify this program, observing the development and needs of children, the more that now, once again, I want to emphasize it when it comes to an individual educational and therapeutic program, it is being prepared with the parent. We have made it very clear in the regulation that the parent is to participate in the preparation of this programme. Here are some examples, and each of these examples needs to be examined. I'm asking for these specifics, because we're investigating them. If the child is disabled and operates with disability or with a team or with a combination, with several disabilities, it is his place in school. It's not at home, it's at school, it's with peers, because it's best for the baby. I want to tell you people who are listening to us that a child with disabilities can't just be at home. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It may be that he is sick, and then there is such a case, but disability alone does not prevent a child from attending school. This is what we have created in order to care for children, to care for parents and to listen to them. [[The reality is different.]] I will be happy to answer any other specific questions, provided... First of all, I would like to answer the children, the parents, because I am sorry, because I think, and here I want to say, Mr. Marshal, that some questions in the context of the subject have been asked in an unworthy way and should not fall down in this Chamber, because we are talking about too serious matters and we have no right to give incorrect information, especially to parents who are concerned about the fate of their children. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Take this to heart and follow this call.]] Thank you, Minister. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: the report of the Extraordinary Commission on the bill submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland amending the Code of Offences Act (prints no 1652 and 1748). I ask Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u206	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report of the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications about the draft law on the amendment of the Code of Offences presented by the President of the Republic of Poland. The Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codifications considered the draft law at its meeting on 18 July 2017. The Commission asks that the High Sejm adopt the attached bill. Let me stress that, in the discussion that took place at the committee's meeting, the committee unanimously accepted the validity of the proposed amendment. It aims to introduce rules into the Code of Offences that allow people to be held liable for offences who, through unnecessary actions or false information, block emergency phone numbers. As a result of the discussion and some expert comments, the representatives of the Ministry have been clarified. In our view, they will fulfil their role in an effective way to combat all the pathologies that have taken place so far and have not been subject to criminal liability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u207	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. To speak first, I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u208	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club Law and Justice, I present my position regarding the draft of the President of the Republic of Poland amending the Code of Offences Act, Parliamentary Printing No 1652. The club's position is, of course, positive. The phenomenon of blocking emergency numbers has been increasing for a long time - let me remind you that these numbers are 112, 984, 985, 986, 997, 998 and 999 - by people who make it difficult or even impossible for the emergency notification system to function properly. The designer referred to numerous examples of such blocking of emergency numbers, which may even last a few hours a day, so it is necessary to introduce a common misdemeanor, the perpetrator of which may be anyone who intentionally blocks the telephone emergency number. I wanted to pay particular attention to the statement that this could be a misdemeanor committed only on purpose. The consequence of such behavior may be to endanger the health or life of a person in need of help. Consequently, Article 2 (1) of the basic Regulation provides for the application of Article 4 (1) of the basic Regulation. 66 The Code of Misdemeanors has been expanded. It provides for penalisation in the form of detention, in the form of a penalty for the limitation of liberty and fine, but only up to PLN 1500, and I will remind you that the fine in the Code of Offences can be imposed up to 5 000. zł, unless otherwise provided by the law, and in this case the contested law provides otherwise. This project was positively assessed by the Attorney General of the Republic of Poland as well as by the national prosecutor, except that in the opinion of the national prosecutor there was such a reservation as to the wording, the verb blocks it. The point was that this is a verb, let's say, derived not from the legal language, but from the everyday language, but I think that this verb term will not be a problem in interpretations made by courts. In conclusion, the Law and Justice Club therefore supports this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u209	Thank you. Mrs Katarzyna Osos, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u210	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present my position on behalf of the Civic Platform club in relation to the report of the committee on the bill submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland amending the Code of Offences Act. In general, the amendment is intended to punish people who, without clear need, block emergency phone numbers. Unfortunately, we are still dealing with an incredible number of cases of blocking these numbers. In 2016, almost 50% of all calls to alarm numbers were false, malicious or unfounded. This phenomenon must certainly be assessed negatively and the state must counter such situations. Unfortunately, in the current state of law, such conduct is not a violation, and it is not possible to punish those who commit it. Therefore, the proposed changes should be assessed positively, which has already occurred during the first reading of the project. I also pointed out in my first reading that the project needs to be clarified, especially as regards the marks of this action. In fact, during the committee's work, a discussion was held which sought to clarify and eliminate the doubts arising from this project and to develop as optimal as possible solutions. The result of this work is one amendment to the article. 1 of the draft submitted, which amended the wording of the Article. 66 § 1 point 2. This amendment is absolutely valid. The Civic Platform Club will vote in accordance with the committee's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u211	Thank you, Member. Mr Blazej Parda, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz club, 15 I can say that we will be behind this bill. I hope that in addition to the possibility of imposing penalties, even if they are never imposed, the mere awareness of the existence of such a record in law may cause these jokers or... It's hard to name people who make 1,000 calls to the emergency room and hang up. I think they're mostly jokers. They're just gonna want something like this away, and that could really save a life someday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u213	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u214	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present my position on the report of the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications about the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland amending the Code of Offences Act, print No 1748. As in the first reading of the Postelski Club Modern sees the need to introduce criminal offences into the Code, which de facto reduces the possibility of using emergency services to a very large extent. We only hope that not just the introduction of criminal offences will remain after this draft law, but that on the basis of this draft law, a comprehensive social action will also be carried out concerning the awareness of the non-justifiability of this type of action to society. Because punishment alone doesn't solve this problem. The number of problems lies in the awareness of people who thus refer to blocking emergency numbers. Therefore, the Modern Posel Club will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u215	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u216	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to present my position on the report of the committee on the bill submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland amending the Code of Offences, Print Nos 1652 and 1748. I think there is no doubt that the aim of the President's legislative initiative, namely to ensure that effective access to emergency phones is improved. In fact, statistics, which thanks to this project can be seen with all prominence, in quotes, are alarming. Literally. It's a good thing there's an initiative to change that. The Parliamentary Club of PSL will be in favour of the committee's report - and I would like to point out at the outset - but we are joining those voices which have also sounded out of the mouth of the previous speakers here, that the legal framework itself to prevent such situations is not everything. Without additional education, without social action, which will make sense in such potential cases of blockage... It may turn out that the severity of the penalty alone is not enough, so today it is worth considering this type of systematics in action, when it comes to social campaigns, education, also in schools, from an early age, what is an emergency phone, what is it used for, what are the consequences of blocking and abuse of these phone numbers. I think that we will then be able to change and minimize these ungrateful statistics, which really put us in an uninteresting circle of European countries or the world. It is probably impossible to eliminate this problem, but we can successfully combine sanctions on this type of behaviour with simultaneous prevention, this phenomenon is limited. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u217	Thank you very much, sir. Two Members signed up for questions. Are any of the other ladies and gentlemen interested? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Maciejewski is the first question to be asked by Mr Krzysztof Maciejewski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The main objective of this bill is to restore the proper role of emergency numbers - 112, 984 etc., which have already been mentioned - often blocked by irresponsible people. This is, of course, a very important initiative, because, as you can see from experience, there are people who are willing to make fun of our security services. Often calling under the WW. Phone numbers just block them out without giving a chance to get through to those who really need help. The proposed changes may be very good, but are they sufficient for mentally ill people? Because that's who I think this group is. We know very well that people with similar psyche live in another world and will continue to pursue their goals regardless of the consequences of their behavior. Each law must fill a legal gap and regulate our lives. It seems to me that, in the case of the proposed legislative amendment, this problem has been ignored - unless I understand enough - and its consequences will not meet our expectations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u219	Thank you, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As for the validity of these rules, I think there is no doubt: it is indeed necessary to do something about it, because the number of such false alarms and cases of blocking alarm numbers is indeed far too high. On the other hand, my question - these issues have been raised here - concerns education, education of society, especially in this early period. I have a question for the President's Chancellery whether the firm has engaged in talks with the Ministry of Education, so that certain elements of this education are actually taken over by schools, because we have examples of two actions, i.e. very often young people, sometimes out of such youthful foolishness, make irresponsible calls, but we also have examples, when children, and sometimes very young, could save the life of their mother or father, who actually collapsed, and the child was able to call and precisely specify what the situation is. Therefore, this education and in one case and in the other case it turns out to be most justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u221	Thank you. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Minister Andrzej Dera. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u222	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the President, first of all, I would like to thank you very warmly for the warm adoption of the bill on punishing people who intentionally, without any reasonable reason, block emergency telephone numbers, hindering the proper functioning of the emergency call centre. As you have noted here, this is an important act, necessary, because we have had a huge number of cases where unfortunately this number has been blocked, making access difficult for other people who need this contact at a given point in time to save someone's life. This mindlessness, this stupidity of these people was simply incomprehensible. And here I want to answer the first question, Mr Maciejewski, who spoke about people who are, as he said, mentally ill. Unfortunately, such cases also happen, but here the very essence of the problem is that if someone is mentally ill, they are excluded from willfulness. In any case of any crime, if someone is mentally ill, we cannot say that he committed a crime, because he doesn't do it intentionally, he doesn't consciously, unawareness at this point turns off punishment. However, here we are not talking about these cases. That applies to all crimes, sir. Please note that if someone commits a serious crime, he is mentally ill, he will be detained in a mentally ill facility, but in the sense of criminal law he will not be punished. The same is true for offences that will not be punished, but will, I don't know, convict a legal guardian. The question is whether he's incapacitated or not. These are already cases where there will be proceedings, which in some sense will allow later control of such a person, so that she does not actually make these many calls, completely unnecessary and blocking the emergency call centre. Of course, I, on behalf of the firm, wanted to join the voices of the state who spoke about the need for an educational campaign. Many of you, speaking as representatives of the clubs, paid attention to this detail, also Mr Meysztowicz asked if we would be involved. Of course, but please note that if we introduce this law now, which will implement such deliberate, without a valid reason, blocking emergency numbers, it will enter into a certain educational whole, because on the one hand I completely agree with you and this education is already today, hence are examples of those little heroes who are able to call 112 and give the paramedic information about what is happening. In this way many people have already been saved by children, grandparents or parents have been rescued, this action is simply already working. However, in order for this educational action to be complete, on the one hand we need to show this positive example, how, where, when and in what situations we call this number. Now we're gonna have full educational information saying that you can't call this number for no reason, you can't block it, you can't play with this number, because at the same time others may need access to that number to save someone's life, and that things like this are gonna be punished from now on. That's the full educational information. That's what was missing today. We only had a situation where those who falsely informed about something that didn't happen were being punished and thus mobilized state services to intervene, and now we will also talk about those who prevent access to the emergency number. If they persist, they will do so deliberately, for no good reason, they will also be held accountable. To sum up, I wanted to thank all the clubs once again for accepting this project. I hope that he will enter the legal market in a very short time, and in this way, as I said earlier, we will close the whole system. I do not have confidence, but I hope that thanks to the educational action the cases of blocking the alarm number will be much less and thus human life will be better saved in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u223	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the State of Israel on social security, signed at Jerusalem on 22 November 2016 (prints No 1693 and 1754). I ask Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u224	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the State of Israel on social security, signed at Jerusalem on 22 November 2016, print No 1693. The Joint Committees: Social Policy and Family and Foreign Affairs, after first reading and after considering this draft law at its meeting on 18 July 2017, request that the High Sejm adopt draft law from print no. 1693 without amendments. A discussion took place at the committee meeting. The joint committees heard speeches by representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Both ministries have consistently stressed the need to conclude a social security agreement with the State of Israel, following which the citizens of both countries will have regulated social security issues. Until now, this issue has not been regulated between the two countries. It has been the subject of many years of work on both sides, in Israel and in Poland. According to the applicants, both ministries, the conclusion of this agreement will create better conditions for the development of Polish-Israeli economic cooperation. The discussion took place, the committees unanimously accepted the draft government act on ratification of the agreement between Poland and Israel. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u225	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor as the first Mr Konrad Głębocki, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u226	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present my position on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the State of Israel on social security signed at Jerusalem on 22 November 2016. The Law and Justice Club supports this government submission. The agreement addresses the important problems of Polish and Israeli citizens in the field of social security. Each country has its own social security system. The problem arises when a citizen of one country works in another country for some time. In such a case, it is difficult or even impossible to preserve the rights acquired in connection with social security. Therefore, bilateral international agreements are needed to coordinate the operation of two different systems. This agreement can also contribute to the development of economic cooperation between Poland and Israel, it will create a better climate for mutual investment of Polish entrepreneurs in Israel and Israeli entrepreneurs in Poland. The double payment of social security contributions will be eliminated and will have a negative impact on economic development. The commitment to the social security agreement with the State of Israel must also be seen in the context of the Association Agreement between the European Union and Israel. On the basis of this Association Agreement, a common EU approach to the coordination of social security systems between the Member States of the European Union and the State of Israel is envisaged. This agreement between the Republic of Poland and the State of Israel is slightly ahead of the arrangements which will be adopted in a broader EU context and which will be based, as this agreement, on the principle of equal treatment of legally employed workers and the principle of the obligation to transfer benefits from social security schemes such as pensions, survivor's pensions, invalidity pensions, pensions for accidents at work and occupational diseases. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u227	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u228	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is my great pleasure to present to the High House the position of the Civic Platform Club of the Republic of Poland on the draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the State of Israel on social security signed in Jerusalem on 22 November 2016, prints 1693 and 1754. This agreement is highly expected and very desirable because it allows for the establishment of a basis for coordination of social security systems in both countries and thus provides insurance protection for citizens of both countries. So far there have been no legal regulations between Poland and Israel in the field of social security, which has brought with it many disadvantages for the citizens of both countries. It was not possible to qualify for the benefits of periods of insurance in the territory of the other party. There were also no rules governing the transfer of benefits to persons who had moved to the territory of the other country. This was a serious problem for many Polish and Israeli families, and it had a bad impact on the image of both countries among investors. The agreement signed on 22 November 2016 in Jerusalem aims to address these problems by regulating legal issues in this area. In its content, this agreement ensures that the principles of equal treatment of transfers of funds and the aggregation of periods of employment are met. It also assumes that persons falling within its scope will be subject to the laws of only one country, indicating at the same time which State legislation is appropriate in a particular case. Contract records are organized, among others. employment, business, social security contributions, pensions, accident and occupational disease benefits, maternity benefits and funeral allowances. It is also worth mentioning that the conclusion of this agreement will probably have a positive impact on the image of both countries among entrepreneurs interested in doing business in the territory of the other party. Particularly important from this point of view is the provision on the elimination of double payment of social security contributions. In conclusion, I would like to inform the High House that the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Platform of the Republic of Poland will vote in favour of the bill, 1693 and 1754 printed today. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u229	Thank you, too, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz15. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the committee on the Government's draft law on ratification of the agreement between the Republic of Poland and the State of Israel on social security signed at Jerusalem on 22 November 2016. The aim of the proposed law is to regulate the issues contained in the social security agreement between Poland and the State of Israel. Polish and Israeli citizens have long been expecting solutions in this area. The absence of such an agreement did not allow adequate social security. The contract establishes that periods of insurance from both countries are subject to aggregation and are entitled to retain the right to benefits, social security and to calculate the size of those benefits. The agreement presented is in line with existing standards and takes into account elements that are consistent for both countries. Importantly, the agreement will not be a civic contract, so obtaining the right to benefits under it will not depend on the possession of Polish or Israeli citizenship. The proposed law will also allow better conditions for cooperation between Poland and Israel on economic development. I am convinced that the Minister of Development Mateusz Morawiecki will make good use of the opportunity created by the ratified agreement and will lead to an increase in the scale of Israeli investments in Poland. According to experience so far, bilateral social security agreements have a positive impact on the image of the state among entrepreneurs interested in doing business in the territory of the other party. The contested law is necessary and as a consequence the interests of Polish citizens living temporarily in the territory of Israel will be adequately secured. About Free and Solidarni supports the bill submitted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u231	Thank you, Member. On behalf of the club, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz will speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u232	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Modern Club vis-à-vis the Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the State of Israel on social security signed at Jerusalem on 22 November 2016. It seems that this type of government activity is as much to support as possible, especially since the situation in which we post workers abroad, but also if entrepreneurs delegate their employees to Poland, very often happens at the moment. In order to facilitate the movement of these people so that they are guaranteed benefits, it is important that, given that some of those countries with which we have really very good economic relations are outside the structures of the European Union, bilateral agreements are signed to secure these social benefits for both parties. The present law will therefore be supported by the Modern Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u233	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u234	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft Act on ratification of the agreement between the Republic of Poland and the State of Israel on social security will allow for the inclusion of periods of insurance in the State of Israel in order to determine the right to Polish pension benefits and their amount and vice versa. Consequently, it allows the transfer of benefits to persons entitled to stay in the territory of the other contracting party, it will provide protection against the loss of social security rights acquired in the territory of the other State. The scope of the contract includes: maternity, pension and family benefits within the meaning of family pensions, invalidity benefits, accidents at work, funeral allowances covered by pension insurance. The Agreement will apply to all persons who are subject to or subject to the legislation of one country or of both countries, their family members and survivors of those persons. This is a solution to international standards and the continuation of innovation into the social benefit scheme initiated by the government of PSL. This also goes against the principle of equal treatment and the preservation of acquired rights. In addition, the provisions contained in the agreement can contribute to improving economic cooperation between Poland and the State of Israel, in particular to positively influence Israeli companies' decisions to make new investments in Poland. In view of the above, the club PSL sees no reason to support the project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u235	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. There is no Member, so I am announcing a two-minute technical break. We are waiting for the Member. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 minutes 49 hours 13 min 54]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 39 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the government draft law on specific solutions for improving the quality and accessibility of health care services (prints No 1820 and 1824). I ask Mrs Barbara Dziuk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u236	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Health, I would like to present the draft law on specific solutions for improving the quality and accessibility of healthcare provided in print No 1820. The draft law on specific solutions for improving the quality and accessibility of healthcare services has two objectives: wider and faster access to health services for patients and a reduction of several years of queues by increasing the financial resources for medical equipment and equipment. The Act will allow the Minister responsible for Health to transfer grants to medical equipment and apparatus both to medical entities established and supervised by him and to those who provide healthcare services. Today, oncology centres are primarily among them in terms of needs. The proposed regulations result from the unsatisfactory technical state of the medical infrastructure, which requires funding and investment. A dynamically changing situation requires adapting the diagnostic and therapeutic potential to the needs of society. It also requires new medical and IT technologies. Hence the need to constantly invest and provide resources for health protection. Needless to say, medical equipment needs to be operational and in good condition. Medicine's developing. We cannot ignore the achievements of the latest medicine, and thus technological and technological progress, and this also involves the need for continuous and continuous investment. Thus, a large part of the funding is devoted to the purchase of medical equipment and equipment, with an emphasis on modernising diagnostics and therapy primarily in the fields of paediatrics and child surgery, as well as oncology, as the number of cancer patients is constantly increasing. Purchases of diagnostic equipment and minimally invasive treatment, including purchases of laparoscopes, thoracoscopics or gastroscopes, are particularly important. Modern non-invasive diagnostic equipment is also desirable, e.g. modern ultrasounds, especially for small patients. In the case of oncology, emphasis was placed on the development of brachytherapy in the project. In addition, the project provides for the purchase of equipment for emerging breast cancer treatment centres and the purchase of equipment to equip laser therapy centres in children with congenital vascular anomalies. These children are treated abroad because of the lack of available laser therapy methods in the country and the long waiting period, and this is a huge expense of tens of thousands of euros. As many voivodships are temporarily lacking in intensive care facilities for the newborn, the project envisages an increase in funding for medical equipment and equipment for healthcare providers who provide hospital care services for the neonatology units of the third reference level. It is necessary to expand the infrastructure for intensive care of the newborn, and this results, among other things. with the increasing number of newborn births with burdens, that we can save today - and that is what we do - extremely immature premature babies that require long treatment, and that we finally have more births. It should be added that medical equipment for intensive care of the newborn is largely exploited and requires replacement or addition, so its purchase for the neonatology departments of the third reference level will allow for improved neonatological care results, improve diagnosis and treatment. Another important issue is the provision of health prevention offices in schools run by a local government unit. Preventive health care for children and adolescents of school age will ensure the proper development of children and young people and, in the long run, the proper functioning of children and young people in adult life. Therefore, students must have access to a health care clinic where a nurse, possibly a hygienist, will give them advice or medical assistance. According to the Education Law and public-funded health care legislation, every school should have a health prevention office. Its creation and equipment in the case of schools run by a local government unit is a function of its own. A separate provision is the regulation of the Article. 6 the project, which provides for a 100% financing of the equipment of health prevention offices, which is necessary in view of the need to provide pupils with access to preventive health care benefits regardless of the financial capacity and priorities of the local government unit running the school. Prevention both prevents disease and significantly reduces the cost of possible treatment. The functioning of the health prevention cabinet in each school is consistent with the work being carried out on the design of the Health Act for children and young people of school age. The project also provides for strengthening the role of a nurse or a school hygienist working with a primary health care doctor and a dentist in the field of preventive care for students. The provision by the voivodship of local government units of grants intended to equip health prevention offices will enable proper preventive care of students. In addition to purchasing equipment for health prevention in schools, the project also provides for the purchase of dentobuses, i.e. vehicles in which prevention and dental assistance are to be carried out. The data contained in the program "Monitoring the health status of the oral population of the Polish population" say that among three-year-olds the percentage free of caries is 46.2% , among 6-year-olds - only 14.4%. One quarter of the parents and carers of children aged 3 and 6 did not take their child to the dentist, and one third of the parents did not care about the oral hygiene of their children's mouth or control it. And that's a problem that's very important. These school offices also need to be helped. It doesn't look better in older age groups. The data are so alarming that effective measures must be taken to promote health and include systematic dental prophylaxis for children of school age. Offices and dentobuses will help to prevent and provide dental care to students of families in difficult material situations. The project foresees that dentobuses purchased by the Minister responsible for Health will be transferred to voivodeships who will make them available free of charge to healthcare providers with whom the NFZ has concluded a dental care contract for dental treatment performed in the dentobus. The provider would have the cost of maintaining the dentobus. After the end of the contract with the National Health Fund, the provider would return the dentobus to the voivodeship. The cost of dental health benefits will be borne from 2018 under the funding provided by the National Health Fund's financial plan. The project deals with the purchase of vaccines to carry out compulsory preventive vaccinations in accordance with the preventive vaccination programme established for the year concerned and therefore increases the limit of the maximum expenditure for 2017 and 2018 borne by the State budget. The need to increase these limits in 2017 is linked inter alia. with the entry into force of the Regulation of the Minister of Health of 3 November 2016, which introduced an obligation to vaccinate all children born after 31 December 2016 against pneumococci. In line with the public procurement rules and the need for a tendering procedure, a purchase should be made in 2017. The maximum limit of the abovementioned expenditure for 2018 has been adjusted to the amount of the financial resources provided for this purpose in the draft budget law for 2018. The amendment of these limits does not have a direct impact on the State budget. The amendment is intended to allow the possible purchase of pneumococcal vaccines in 2017 and in 2018 to adapt the limit to the appropriations planned for this task in the draft budget law for 2018. A short period of time for the implementation of the tasks and the need to finance them by the end of 2017, as well as the deadlines indicated in the draft for requesting funds from the special-purpose reserve, are due to the real possibility of developing appropriate proposals. The urgent entry into force of the Act on the day following the date of its publication is the subject of an important interest of the State. The draft shall not require the competent institutions and bodies of the European Union, including the European Central Bank, to be notified, consulted or agreed upon in order to obtain an opinion. The project is compatible with European Union law. The project will affect medium, small and micro-entrepreneurs. This impact will result from the conclusion of agreements with some of them with voivodships on the availability of dentobuses. The draft does not contain technical provisions within the meaning of the Council of Ministers Regulation of 23 December 2002 on the functioning of the national system of notification of standards and legal acts and is therefore not subject to the notification procedure. All Poles have been waiting for years for the changes introduced by the above law. Simple rule: prevention is better than cure. Healthy Hansel will grow into a healthy John. For many years with doctors, authorities in the world of medicine, I promoted together with people of passion, and promoted prevention, and now our dreams and all Poles are coming true, because healthy children are a healthy society and consequently a healthy economy. For almost 2 years, the good direction of government action on behalf of Law and Justice, which is concerned about the health and dignity of Poles, is really investing in the future of Poland. High Izbo! Simple rule: we're not supposed to fight against it, we're supposed to fight for society. Please, over political divisions together, let us take care of the health of Poles. This is a big deal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u237	Thank you, Member. There's a problem with getting to us a representative of the Ministry of Health, and there was a request to wait... There's the minister. Point, on time. Well, welcome, Minister. Then we won't have to announce a technical break. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Katarzyna Głowala: Good morning.]] The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mrs Anna Czech to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u238	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club Law and Justice I have the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the draft law on special solutions to improve the quality and availability of health care services. The draft of this law aims to increase the funds earmarked for the purchase of the necessary medical equipment and equipment. The proposed regulations result from the fact that the state of the infrastructure in health care is not satisfactory and still requires renewal and further investments. There is therefore a need to adapt diagnostic and medical capacity to the current needs of society, to new technologies and to new developments in computer science. There is therefore an urgent need to finance the purchase of the necessary equipment, and the aim of this law is to improve the quality and level of medical services provided. A significant part of these funds responds to the needs of the healthcare providers arising from the needs of the community. The planned purchases focus on quality, this is about diagnostic equipment, which is very important, starts the treatment process, is before the treatment process, as well as for low-invasive treatment. Examples are laparoscopes, as well as non-invasive diagnostic equipment, in particular extensive ultrasounds dedicated to small children. In the case of oncology, support for such an area as brachytherapy, which should develop. In addition, it is envisaged to purchase equipment for newly emerging, highly needed centres for comprehensive treatment of breast cancer, as well as to purchase accessories for laser therapy centres in children, which is also a very important issue. It is also an urgent need to equip third level branches of neonatology, which have high requirements laid down by the fund and therefore need very much funding, and they serve the most vulnerable newborns who were born with various complications. So that's a very good goal. So that the second block is a prevention dedicated to children and young people and organizing it to protect their health, is to provide adequate prevention just from an early age through the organisation of health care and prevention offices. This is actually a great moment that will be in every place, in each school properly organized office and from the youngest years children will be fed with it, that it is important to health and care for them. And right now, as we know, I will now move on to the dentobuses, which is the second part of this prevention block - 16 dentobuses have been financed, which will go into the field in every voivodeship. And this will allow you to take care of the entire population of children, which, as has already been mentioned here, unfortunately have not a very good condition, so to speak, teeth and caries affect a significant percentage of our children. We just have to change that. To sum up these amounts, we have over 60 million to purchase for oncology, pediatrics and surgery, 60 million PLN - for the purchase of equipment for neonatology, as well as for dentobuses. We believe it is a good thing that such money has been raised and that these funds are being spent in the right direction and will certainly serve the health of society. So that the accelerated, urgent entry into force of the Act, immediately after the date of publication, results from a short period of implementation and from the fact that [[♪ The bell ♪]] the Public Procurement Act is in force. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I state that the club is positive about this law and supports it and will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u239	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a noisy law title on special solutions to improve quality and accessibility. We're gonna support this bill, too, because 280 million aren't walking. But from the noisy announcements, which lasted three days, that there might not be 2.8 billion, which Minister Radziwiłł was talking about... As the queues are growing longer, hospital limits are over, it takes 2.8 billion from the Minister of Finance, 2.1 billion from the Minister of Finance. to buy additional procedures, because the minister said: you have to buy additional procedures and 700 million for equipment. A few days ago, right after that announcement, it turned out that no, 2,8 There will be no billion, but maybe 1.5 billion will be found. Today we're in real reality. The day before the bill entered the Sejm, it was printed. Last night it was directed by the Marshal of the Sejm to first reading. Such an important bill goes to the first reading of the Health Committee, not here, to the Seym. How much money is there? 281 million. What's the money for? The rapporteur has read the reasons for this law very well. But there are a few things that need to be made clear. The question is whether this money is really well targeted at patients' needs. The fact that they are to be fitted in beds of offices in schools is to be additional equipment - this is child-related health prevention - that's good. 134 million to go. Although it won't increase the number of nurses. And so far, there is no such money in the budget plan for next year, because the increase in the budget plan of the NFZ for next year is only due to the increase in the salaries of nurses, from the additional offices no longer. I wonder what it's gonna be like? The Minister said yesterday: The Fund will sign, and today the Fund knows nothing, because no arrangements with the Fund are made. Two, we need to buy dentobuses, 16 detours of dentobuses. I wonder what it's gonna look like. Dentobus will be in the village of Piskie Mały, and for how long, where and when it will be in the Smaller Korbiels or in another village, it is not known. And what range of services will this dentobus provide? Who knows? To this day, because today I asked this question, no one agreed to amend the health minister's regulation on the basket of guaranteed benefits. There's no dentobus service like that. The provider will take part in the competition so that the voivode can lend him free of charge a bus to which this dentist must provide gasoline, insurance, driver, word: anything. As part of what? No one knows what, because changes in the basket of guaranteed services There isn't. There is no such service. Who will this service be for? Only for children or adults? We don't know. What range, how much money? Yesterday I tried to ask the Minister. Answers - zero. When this law is changed, we don't know. But all right, let's make it one bus that goes to the country maybe once every 10 years. Maybe you can deal with changing your guaranteed benefits basket for next year. But there's other money for this equipment. Okay, they're going to high-specialized facilities. Great. Just a question to which. Well, those that are almost in every case provided for by this law by ministerial hospitals. The minister scraped some money just to help his own hospitals. For the county hospital, marshal hospital or city hospital, that is, where the patient gets to, to which he has the closest, there is no money for this equipment. The governments of this money indeed They don't have much. No hospital where regular patients are taken by family or ambulance will receive a single dollar. The Minister only sees treatment in clinics. And good, that's the noisy announcement. They were supposed to melt the queues, everything was supposed to get smaller. The Minister's heart was given to his patients. What effect? Instead of queues, they melted the money that was supposed to shorten those queues. I know that October 1st enters the hospital network law, where there are no limits. The Minister seems to think that if there are no limits, all patients will be cured, I don't know, three shifts, no idea what doctors, no nurses. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In order to make it easier for the Minister, we have tabled an amendment to the Marshal so that he and Minister Morawiecki can have a stronger position in the negotiations. Instead of making promises without covering, please negotiate with our support money for those promises. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u241	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u242	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, 15 I have the honour to present our position on the government draft law on special solutions for improving the quality and accessibility of health care services, 1820 and 1824 prints. As we read in the justification for this project, the aim of the Act is to increase the financial resources for medical equipment and equipment. An important part of the funds for the purchase of medical equipment and equipment will be used to modernise diagnostic, therapeutic possibilities of selected fields of Polish medicine, namely pediatrics and paediatric surgery and oncology. The project also provides for the implementation of a new task, which is to equip health prevention offices in schools run by local government units. In addition to the purchase of equipment for health prevention offices in schools run by a local government unit, the project also provides for the purchase of vehicles providing health services in the field of dentistry, i.e. the so-called. Dentobuses, in the number of 16 pieces per whole Poland. The fact that it is necessary to equip the Polish health system with modern equipment and equipment is not subject to any discussion, but the amount allocated to such a huge challenge of less than 282 million is grossly low. Requirements, needs are at least 10 times as much as no more, larger, so it's a drop in the sea of needs, but it's good that there is at least this. However, I cannot go indifferently to the procedure for this project. Yesterday, the Health Commission was convened at 11:00 p.m. 18, of which we Members have been informed by text at 10 p.m. 17.17. During that time, we were to analyze the entire project and get a position. Let me put it this way, maybe I don't have a lot of sejm experience because it's less than two years, but I haven't seen a committee as funny as yesterday. It was the funniest committee I've ever had the privilege of participating in. The project was prepared so sloppyly that in this great 5-page piece of government legislation, it's just what the article says, it's a mistake. It was just one big messy bill that we corrected in a way that really is embarrassing for this House. [[That's bullshit.]] I would like to make it clear that the need to finance health care does not raise any doubts about me. Despite all these reservations about the process, Kukiz will certainly support this project, because we have to choose: either pick on the form itself, or simply take care of Polish patients. I'd like to stop at one article, Art. 9, which does not fit me at all with this project, because we are talking about funding for the purchase of medical equipment and equipment, and here comes an article that talks about those highly questionable Polish society mandatory vaccinations, in this case it is pneumokoki. It is expressly specified that Article. 9 aims to increase maximum expenditure limits. I really have the right to believe that this is about the so-called. vaccine lobbies, i.e. those who want compulsory vaccinations in Poland, so that parents who simply disagree with such procedures are forced to do what they really do not want. A person should have the right to choose, possibly having the possibility of education, so that he can believe what he is being offered. Therefore, the Kukiz15 Club makes an amendment in this respect to the hands of the Marshal, which aims to delete the article. 9, because in our opinion, in the opinion of Kukiz15, the general idea of increasing funds for the purchase of equipment, medical equipment does not fit in any way the increase in expenditure on compulsory, compulsory, which I stress, vaccination of children, with which many Poles do not agree. There is more and more confusion about this subject. This topic is becoming more controversial. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I believe that this House should address the issue of vaccination in Poland clearly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u243	Thank you. Mr Radosław Lubczyk, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u244	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present the position of the Poselski Club in relation to the government's draft law on special solutions for improving the quality and availability of health care services. However, I would like to start by saying a few words about how to proceed with this project. Law and Justice got us used to working on new rules in a hurry, without consultation needed and without careful analysis. The procedure for convening yesterday's meeting of the Health Committee prevented many Members from actively participating in the debate, the subject of which was to increase the financial resources for medical equipment and equipment. The subject is important, because it is not known from now on that many offices and operating rooms that doctors use need to be equipped, and the medical equipment available still remembers the times rightly passed. But why such a rush by the government to spend nearly PLN 280 million dedicated to investment in this sector? There is no doubt that it is a budget that is needed by the Polish health service, because it has been underinvested for a long time, but it is difficult to comply with the provisions of this law and the intention of the projector, knowing how many comments to individual regulations had yesterday's Legislative Office. We are wondering who will be the beneficiary of these measures, whether for sure the patient, where the money will go, or actually where it is most needed. Minister Radziwiłł admitted yesterday that 280 million PLN must be spent by the end of the year. Modern, then, asks: How? Will the time we have left legally allow us to conduct the tendering procedure? Finally, I would like to say that the norm in this Parliament has become the preparation of laws whose idea is right, but the individual records raise considerable doubts. In a normal manner, all these question marks would be eliminated by discussion in committee. In this case, we haven't had a chance. The Modern Posel Club yesterday would still vote in favour of this law and support it. On the other hand, due to the procedure that took place yesterday, the Posel Club Modern abstentions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u245	Thank you. And please take the floor of President Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u246	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Probably if it were normally conducted, no one would have to rush to this meeting today. I was at the president's last night at an hour. 5:30 and I also got this information about the committee meeting very late. We're happy, I think, all of us, no matter where we come from, with extra money for health care. Only they were supposed to be 10 times more, as Mrs Radziszewska said. This was supposed to be PLN 2,800 million, not PLN 280 million. There's a delicate difference. I understand that it's easy to make announcements, it's harder to carry them out. I do not understand, however, why this law is presented only today to the High House and was not presented before the holidays. Those doctor's offices... [[Eight years old.]] You won the election, ladies and gentlemen, you have the right to rule, you rule two years, then we'll discuss how you ruled. Really stop eight years because it doesn't work anymore. It's not working anymore. [[It's working, it's working.]] You need a new proposal here... [[It's working.]] ...offer. 2800 million zlotys were supposed to be, there are 280 million zlotys. 280 million PLN - I will enjoy every dollar and of course we will support this bill because we will vote for this... [[That's great.]] ...which goes to our countrymen. But does it go exactly where it should go? Clinical hospitals with the highest degree of reference or county hospitals? They need more support? That's where they go most often, because there's just a great majority of them, our countrymen, all the patients. You're talking about dentobuses. There are no differences in the population of the Mazowieckie voivodship and Opole voivodship, and there is to be one dentobus everywhere. I'd like to hear the Minister's declaration that if we could get a $750,000 dentobus. Everyone, you'll buy 24 instead of 12. Can I have the minister today... [[16.]] ...to make such a declaration? 24, not 16. Great. [[There could be more.]] The more you buy, the better. If you set aside PLN 24 million, there will be more. And I hope that they will go to people in proportion to their number, not to each voivodeship one at a time. I understand it looks nice, but 1 million inhabitants of Opole Voivodeship and 5.5 million inhabitants of Mazowieckie Voivodship are different needs. Don't really think of every turn of ours as an attack on you. You need a little good faith. We have her, which is why we're going to support this bill. But you, too, show some good faith. That's the first line. Medical care, dental care in schools is very important, 16 dentists will not provide access to them for all children. The rapporteur quoted an analysis showing how bad dental care is in Poland, as it is also expensive today. You haven't changed for two years, with the majority on your own in this regard. And there is a great need to finance the cost of improving access to dentists. I am very happy with every dentobus, only whether there will be doctors who will work there, or in those offices that you will equip for 6700 PLN, all the possible apparatus that is needed there will be available, and whether there will be doctors and nurses who will receive there. Are you able to help local governments and not just impose a duty to provide care on them? And will you finance the hiring costs of doctors and nurses? These are questions that come to us, and they're not directed against you, they're formulated in the care of patients. That's what we're really wondering. Will there be any additional specialties that will simply bring more money to county hospitals, voivodship hospitals, and not just hospitals and clinical units with a limited specialization? Are you planning something on geriatrics: funding geriatrics and facilitating access for older people? There is also no mention of an internship where more and more patients are received every day. I realize that you're trying to get ahead of yourselves, because there's going to be a bill coming in, and there's a lot of doubt, fear, confusion that can bring about another mess and confusion, and you want to show that yes, now we're funding health care. We are just hoping that this year it will be another 2 billion 800, and I understand that at the rate at which we are proceeding today, as described by our colleagues in their speeches, in what mode this law was being conducted. We're ready to proceed with these two-and-a-half. billions of extra money also very quickly, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's just... Give them to me. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u247	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law on specific solutions for improving the quality and accessibility of health care services. The purpose of this draft law is to increase the amount of funding allocated to medical equipment which has been neglected over the years, thus making the technical state of the medical infrastructure at a low, unsatisfactory level. Along with many changes in the country, the need to adapt the diagnostic and medical capacity to the tasks of the health system has arisen. We all know that an essential element of a well-functioning system is the appropriate technical condition of medical apparatus. The Minister of Finance transferred an additional PLN 281 million to medical equipment, mainly to modernize diagnostic and therapeutic methods in the fields of pediatrics, child surgery and oncology. Part of the money will be used to expand the infrastructure for intensive care of the newborn. I have no doubt that these funds will be used for the benefit of the newly born children and will facilitate the development of the next stages of life. The proposed bill provides for the introduction of a new task, which is to equip health prevention offices in schools. It should be stressed that 100% the costs associated with this will be covered by the budget. The projector, thanks to this provision of the Act, wants to prevent the situation of unequal access to prevention of the health of pupils in schools. In addition to the purchase of office equipment in schools, the designer provides for the purchase of vehicles, so-called. dentobuses in which dental benefits will be provided. The introduction of such vehicles is an innovative solution. Numerous studies indicate that the level of oral hygiene in children is very low. Thanks to this solution, children from small towns who do not have dental offices will have access to dental care. The regulations presented in the draft law will contribute to ensuring equal access for students to health prevention offices, as well as to increasing standards in the field of medical equipment. I have no doubt that the bill under review is a good step towards raising children's health, which will affect the health of our society in the future. It should be stressed that additional appropriations not previously planned in the budget can only be made available because the Minister of Finance was able to develop surpluses that we can now use to improve childcare. [[Just don't steal.]] About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u249	Thank you, Member. Is any of the other ladies and gentlemen willing to ask a question? If so, please enter on the list. Please, Mr Tomasz Latos is the first question to be asked. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u250	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thanks to listening to some of the speakers from the opposition clubs, I know why these projects that we are currently carrying out have not been implemented in the past. When we were discussing dentistry, when it turned out that Poland found itself in terms of the state of mouth and teeth in children, behind Gabon and Vietnam, because this was the case during your reign, you were wondering who would drive a dentobus, because I was already talking about dentobuses. You've divided hair into four, and you've seen problems everywhere. We want to solve these problems. And thank you very much, Minister, for having these dentobuses. I would like to ask if you are also planning to buy more, without looking at whether - as one of the opposition representatives said - you will have someone to drive these dentobuses, because they will certainly have someone to drive them. When I hear about geriatrics, which we should remember - of course we will remember - I imagine that if the money was spent on geriatrics, then only then - given that there are only a few hundred geriatrics in Poland - would you say that there are no geriatrics and there will be no one to work. [[You're shutting down the troops.]] In short, ladies and gentlemen, do not disturb me. I am glad that, after this complaining, complaining and complaining, you voted in favour of this proposal at the committee's meeting, and I hope that tomorrow, too, you will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u251	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Małgorzata Płępek about the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u252	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Contrary to the Law and Justice announcements, the queues for treatment continue to grow. The average waiting time for a lens to be implanted is 1.5 years. You have to wait even longer for an endoprosthetic knee or hip. When 2015 figures are compared to 2016 data, it is becoming worse and worse. More than 1 million patients are waiting for rehabilitation. The worst with rehabilitation is in the Śląskie voivodship. In the rehabilitation center in Ustroń the first free term is in 10 years. Those patients who can afford it decide to receive private treatment because they can't wait. But not everyone can afford it. The welfare of you is expected by children, and the most seniors who are being wiped out by geriatric troops, Mr President. [[That's bullshit.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Don't speak so beautifully. It's a good thing you want to support local governments in the prevention and dental treatment of children with this bill. But let me remind you that you promised offices in all schools. [[There they are.]] That was your election promise. There'll be 16 dentobuses, like African countries. [[Applause]] [[You can complain about anything.]] I'm asking for specific data for Silesia. How many schools of less than 100 students will be serving a dentobus? How many students in general will be able to use this form? And I'm asking for a written reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u253	Thank you. Mrs Elżbieta Gelert.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u254	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask you this question: Will hospitals other than those mentioned in the Act also be able to count on your assistance and when? Because, as mentioned here, diagnosis actually begins in county hospitals, voivodship hospitals, which is where the patient has the closest. I understand that treatment, specialized treatment and diagnostics are carried out in clinics, but that does not mean that only some hospitals should be distinguished against this background. This law provides for 280 million, but that is not all, because for the following year there is also shown the amount to be spent on hospitals, among others. for hospitals, because the law applies of course Also office equipment. I think this is very accurate and certainly very necessary, especially since the offices are and are waiting very often on standby, and unfortunately they do not have the equipment. As far as equipment is concerned, they are listed in the annex and described what it should look like, so I think that the 6700 zlotys that are foreseen should be sufficient. At least here the case should be resolved at this level. However, once again, I would ask to see the role of other hospitals, not just clinical hospitals or institutes, not just oncology treatment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u255	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u256	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I also wanted to ask a few questions about dentobuses, because in this regard there is the least information and the most unknown. Firstly, what range of dental services will dentobuses provide? Who will these services be available to? There's talk of schools, but I think it's important to remember, too. about the inhabitants of specific localities. What towns in the voivodships, according to what criteria will these dentobuses reach? Who's gonna set a schedule for these detours? After all, some voivodships are very extensive. In fact, there is a need for very specific information here. When they're... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[There was no doubt about the mammoths.]] Don't disturb me, Minister. When are the conditions necessary to conclude an agreement with the National Health Fund for these services? I also want to bring up a case that is raised most often - one dentobus per voivodship. There are very large differences between voivodships. Please compare Opolskie voivodship to Mazowieckie voivodship or Śląskie voivodship. This is not only about large areas, but also about the fact that they are highly urbanized voivodships, with a very large population. Accepting the assumption: one dentobus per voivodeship, I think, raises big doubts, this is not a good solution. Therefore, I have a question: Are there any changes planned in this regard? Are there any further purchases planned? Because soon after you start, you will find that this is not sufficient. So that I ask you to answer these questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u257	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u258	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think that despite the usual criticism of the opposition's voices - and here, reflecting the ball, I would ask, when you understand that this is not working - each of us Members should be as happy as one husband should be about this project. In the explanatory memorandum of the Government's draft law on specific solutions to improve the quality and availability of healthcare services, among the issues that need to be addressed in our health care, among others. improving the implementation of preventive care for pupils and access to dental services for children. Unfortunately, this is accompanied by insufficient interest, despite the existing rules, in the area of local self-government units. It happens - I know from the autopsy - that local governments are doing bad work here. It is therefore pleased that, in the case of this tranche of funds, some of them will be equipped with health prevention offices in schools and the purchase of modern dentobuses. My question concerns plans of the Ministry of Health relating to comprehensive health and dental care of students, which has been significantly reduced in the area of the PO-PSL government. Can the situation in this area be improved in particular in rural areas? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u259	Thank you. Mr Stefan Rometki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u260	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear fellow Koszalin at the gallery! Given that the government project provides for the purchase of 16 dentobuses, I have therefore a question: At what time one dentobus intended e.g. in Zachodniopomorskie Voivodeship, all schools will be covered so that every child has a chance to benefit from... [[Not all of them, just where there are no offices.]] ...with dental advice? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I'd like a written reply. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u261	Thank you. I also join these greetings to my colleague Mr Koszalin, and by the way, I welcome Mr Krzysztof Kozłowski's Western Pomeranian Voivodeship. [[I, too, greet a colleague from Koszalin.]] Mr Hok also greets his colleague from Koszalin. Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u262	Thank you. It turns out that Koszalin is close to us all.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u263	So you also greet your fellow Member from Koszalin?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u264	Of course, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u265	We all say hello to you. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u266	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'd like you to answer me. for a few questions. First of all, what's the annual cost of keeping these dentists you're going to buy, and it's not known if 750,000 or 1.5 million for one? What will be the extent of treatment in these dentobuses? Will they be equipped e.g. X-rays? Who's it gonna be for? To whom is the offer of this dental service addressed? You write that the provider, whom you are supposed to select, will not know to what extent, for what money and for whom, will bear the costs of hiring a driver, a dentist, dental assistance. What are the costs, what type of service? What are you predicting in this dentobus? Because everything points to this: 16 dentobuses, next year's local government campaign, and you have nothing, you have no revision of the regulation, you have no estimates of costs. Dentobuses will serve in the local government campaign. They're gonna drive as a PiS promotion. Is it gonna be like this or isn't it gonna be like this? Minister, will it be like this or won't it be? Because 16 dentobuses... Here, one of your fellow Members was pleased that a dentobus would arrive in a small village and all the teeth of all the people in the village would heal. One dentobus per whole voivodship [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] With a few hundred high-rankings. Interesting. But I think the Minister will explain it to us. Two. When will there be a regulation on guaranteed dental treatment benefits? Because you need to change the basket. And did the state make estimates, or instead of 1.5 million per dentobus per voivodeship It is not better to do a well-equipped dentist's office in the municipality and spend money on it instead of on a car that will be circling outside the winter, except for holidays, you don't know when. We know what it's like with mammobuses. [[Very good.]] I'd like an estimate, please. If you don't have them on you, please. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to make a written calculation of what is more profitable: a stationary dental office, where there will actually be access for people from a given locality, where there is a dentist, but it would only have to be extended, or the cost of maintaining dentists, so that they would be at least a little effective in their operation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u267	Thank you very much, Member. Dared by Mr Romecki, I too would like to welcome my dear colleague and friend, the legendary bard of Solidarity, the illustrious writer, Mr Wojciech Górszczyk, the author of the famous words of the famous song, because when the Titanic drowned, it was also the orchestra that played... Welcome. [[Applause]] And I ask you to ask Mr Piotr Pole a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u268	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Indeed, negligence in health, general or dental prevention among children and young people in our schools is enormous and we have developed the ungrateful name of one of the most neglected countries not only in Europe but also in the world. Therefore, any initiative that leads to the fact that we are improving this long-term state of negligence, that we are going out with a new, good offer, is as worthy of attention and support as possible. I'd like to ask the Minister. In view of the fact that in the explanatory memorandum of this bill we read that work is being carried out in parallel in the Ministry on the assumptions of the draft law on comprehensive health protection for children and young people in schools, in all respects, prevention and general and dental, I would like to know at which stage you are already with these assumptions, because a comprehensive law which will actually introduce new solutions to such a wide extent, guaranteeing the safeguards I have been talking about is as urgent and would be good if it were to be created as soon as possible. I would like to ask: At what stage are we on this bill? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u269	Thank you. And Mrs Anna Cicholska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u270	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I don't think anyone in Poland needs to be convinced of the importance of medical care, dental care. There is a great need for dental offices, especially among children and young people from small towns. It is necessary to fund and provide resources for health protection. The medical equipment needs to be operational. Medicine's developing. We can't ignore that. Minister, what has the prevention of dental, medical care in children and young people so far looked like? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u271	Thank you. Mrs Anna April.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u272	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Listening to the speakers, and especially to my esteemed colleagues and my esteemed colleagues from the opposition, one can conclude that this bill is little and bad. That's not much, 'cause it's only 16 dentobuses. And I have a question: Is 16 dentobuses more than zero dentobuses? Because so far they haven't been there, and today there's a chance that dental care will, you can say, under the hoards, go to small towns, go to small villages above all, where for parents an expedition to the dentist's office to a big city is almost like an expedition abroad. Those who live in the countryside who are associated with the daily very hard work on the ground, very often have virtually no chance of using permanent dental care, especially with regard to their children. And that's why there's so much negligence. Thank you very much for this - thank you for these dentobuses, thank you for the offices of prevention and hygiene. This is a really big step to change what today is a great embarrassment to us and what is ungrateful. I wanted to refer to this amount of 281 million. It was said from this speaker that it was too small a sum. Yeah, I guess so. If it hadn't come out of Poland over the last 8 years 250 billion PLN, because we are talking about this amount today, this 2 billion amount - here it would have gone down - wouldn't have been [[♪ The bell ♪]] No problem. But there is already a huge light in the tunnel - hope that in a few years there will be enough for full dental care for all children. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u273	Thank you very much, Member. And Mr Radosław Lubczyk, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u274	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister, I have specific questions for you because I haven't been able to read it from the bill, and I'm a dentist, I run dental offices, and I know what I'm talking about when it comes to dentobuses. I am very pleased that they will be, but of course they may be able to fulfil their healing task in the radius. I'd like to ask you how it's going to be contracted. The dental service contract I'm able to understand, but keeping such a dentobus will be a powerful amount. Is this gonna enter into the contract, or is this gonna be some kind of extra funding? It's about keeping that dentobus. And I haven't read what it's like to set up a ministry, how many people are to be admitted in a dentobus, I don't know, per day, per day, per week, per month. What is the assumption and the extent of benefits in such a Dentobus? As we know, these benefits are very different, we also have various specialists. Is it just gonna be prevention, watching these kids, and who's gonna do it, and sending them to a fixed office where these services can be performed? Because I understand that such a dentobus will not be equipped with any equipment, so I guess there will only be basic care and children there anyway they will have to use dental offices. Next question: Who will work in these offices? I understand you want to go there... because today's market looks like I don't know if you're gonna find employees for those detobuses. And more issues, health care issues. I know how I'm going through health care procedures in my office, and it's a high-level office, so I'm wondering how this dentobus is going to go through health care, and if the health department is gonna let that dentobus go to work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u275	Thank you, sir. And the last question is asked by Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u276	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I am truly surprised to hear these cynical statements by Members of the Civic Platform, apologizing to the citizens, and by the PSL. Ladies and gentlemen, in 1999 I organized the first national conference on the situation in school medicine. Then it was all over. At the 2002 demographic congress, at the second congress in 2012, the health problem of children, the problem of childhood and youth dentistry was very widely discussed. In 2013, after a long wait from the Minister of Health, I received information that in Poland more than 24% children from 0 to 24 years of age require regular medical care. I've even written a few or a dozen interpellations about this. And what did you do? You just didn't do anything because you didn't care. The whole pediatrics have been pushed into basic health care, but there are no pediatricians there. It's just that kids, young people are written down, let's say, formally, but no one does. You've eliminated the children's health records. And today it's just... [[Applause]] You're saying that these beginnings of building school medicine, the construction of dental care bothers you that it's not enough. And I agree that it's not enough. There'll be more. You stopped stealing, there will be money, and there will be more for the health of children, adults, old, young, everyone. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u277	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Katarzyna Głowala.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u278	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! As the questions overlapped, I will start with Mr Latos. Are we planning on buying more dentobuses? Yes. We want to introduce a purchase Dentobuses gradually. The Ministry of Health is preparing a bill on both comprehensive treatment of children in dentistry and school nurses. The project is at the stage of... For now, a draft bill is being drawn up. He'll be in the outer agreement soon. The project assumes a gradual purchase of dentobuses. For now we want to buy 16 dentobuses that will go to those smaller towns where schools are very small and cost-effective to create a dental office. They're going to the dentobus. As I say, at the beginning there will be 16 of them, we will buy them gradually. As for Mrs Gelert... Will and when county hospitals be able to count on funding? As said by the Minister of Health Konstanty Radziwiłł, this bill is a project only to some extent allocating funds for the purchase of equipment. In addition to the preparation of this law, the Ministry of Health applied to the Ministry of Finance, as there is already a legal basis for the financing of purchases by hospitals. Two applications for other purchases went: one application of 320 million, the other application of 100 million. So that we implement these purchases not only through this law, but through the possibilities that already arise from the legal bases in the current law. As far as Mrs Radziszewska is concerned - questions about the cost of the annual maintenance of the dentobus, whether we are planning further purchases, what is the scope of dental services, for whom, according to which criteria, who will set the timetable when the basket regulation will be - I just want to say that the basket regulation will be amended. There'll be a new product in the basket. All things, criteria, schedule will be determined by the NFZ provider who will be responsible for the basket product. We are planning this year to amend the regulation of the Minister of Health of 6 November 2013 on dental treatment guaranteed benefits and the regulation of the Minister of Health of 5 August 2016 on detailed criteria for the selection of offers in the procedure for the conclusion of health care contracts. This will be done this year. As regards the detailed calculation of the cost-effectiveness of the dental office or dentobus, I will try to reply in writing. I can't tell right now. Mrs Czernow. When will the terms with the NFZ be determined? Like I said, for the rest of the year. Mr Szulowski. As I said before, a comprehensive student care law is being drawn up. Mr. Piotr Polek. At what stage are the assumptions? They'll be in agreement soon. Mrs Anna Cicholska. What is prevention like among children? So it looks... I think the justification of the project shows that. The supporting data are in the justification for the bill. So I'm not going to read. Mr Radosław Lubczyk. I think I've already answered some of the questions. Everything will be determined by the NFZ. There'll be a contract product in the basket. As for Mrs Hrynkiewicz's question about health resorts - and yet you have asked - such a dentobus will have to pass the health check. I'm overseeing mobile blood collection points. I can say that both at such points as mammobuses and cytobuses is kept clean at a very high level. It is a well-equipped car. In fact, what shape dentobuses will take will depend on the tender, because I know that there are several companies in Poland that produce these dentobuses. It all depends on the tender, on who wins the tender, who offers what. For today I am unable to answer details, because I am not the producer and I am not standing to tender. Therefore, it is difficult for me today to refer to how the dentobus will be equipped. That's all. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, in correction mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u279	Thank you, Minister. Ms Radziszewska submitted herself as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u280	Thank you very much, Marshal. The first point concerns Mrs Hrynkiewicz. You referred to the statements of the Members of the opposition and you said, you have used this phrase: you have stopped stealing, it will now be money. I'll report you to the Board of Ethics. Please prepare in writing how much I have stolen and which money will remain. [[Applause]] Madam President, words can be made in different ways, without any responsibility. This is for you - with your status as a scientist and an experienced parliamentarians - just shame. Second thing. Minister, I ask you very much to answer these questions that I asked during the debate, in writing, because I think you did not fully understand my questions, because it turns out after counting the number of courts - where the village is sometimes several villages - and the number of dentobuses you're buying, with all the shortcomings we've been talking about today, that such a dentobus will arrive once every 10 years, not to mention the village. So this is an improvement in the availability of services. [[But he's gonna make it.]] The second thing I asked about was the queues, because there was supposed to be money to shorten the queues. The Minister knows very well that now that some entities, especially private ones, have fallen out of the hospital network, patients who were registered there for December and then on March or next December, will now move to those hospitals that are online. The queues are not only extended and the statistics of the last two years show it, look at the statistics, it's now that patients from closed entities who are off the grid, because let's not delude, they won't get contracts as far as they were now, to ensure that patients have access to medical services, will be longer. Minister! In that case, I'll ask you for the calculations you have at your disposal. To what extent the queues will extend as a result of the actions that you now have [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're driving? I'm gonna ask you for all these answers in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u281	Thank you. Please take the floor of the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Barbara Dziuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u282	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is regrettable when you listen to the statements of the total opposition, when it questions the things that Poles are waiting for. Minister, we thank you for the bill that will really help us in many cases stop the development of civilizational diseases. One thing that has not been said today is that scientists say, are studies: other diseases come from tooth diseases. Minister, great respect for you, for the government that is really looking, has a need to serve a man. As the draftsman of the bill, which is historic, I have an appeal for everyone to get over the divisions, to find enough good in themselves to accept it without any problem. Life is known to verify certain situations when it is necessary to intervene both financially and technically. But I think that so many positive statements that have come to pass today, because they have fallen, will make this prevention program properly implemented. I recall historically when mammobuses, cytobuses, or buses were introduced to the collection of blood, which various strange statements were. It all reminds me of history. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us trust the people, the practitioners who carry out preventive programs, because because we are going to prevent and not cure, we are really not going to burden the NFZ. We'd better act for the cause than against it. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Then act.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u283	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 26. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on Financial Market Supervision and the Act on Insurance and Insurance Activities (Print No 1782). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Piotr Nowak to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u284	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The draft law presented to the High House is the implementation by the Republic of Poland of the obligations laid down in Regulation No 1286/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 November 2014 on key information documents for retail collective investment products and insurance investment products, commonly referred to as PRIIP, which will be applied directly from 1 January 2018. Currently, the information provided to individual investors wishing to conclude investment agreements, e.g. insurance contract with an insurance capital fund, are uncoordinated and often do not help to compare different products or understand their investment characteristics, i.e. the risks associated with investing in such products. The consequence is that investors often invest without understanding the risks and costs involved, thus resulting in unforeseen losses. The EU PRIIP Regulation requires financial market institutions to produce key product information documents, so-called. KIDs, and hand them over to customers before the contract is concluded. The regulation ensures that a common standard is established for the creation of such documents, allowing for harmonisation of their format and content, which will make it easier to compare certain types of products. In accordance with the provisions of the PRIIP Regulation, a key product information document should be formulated in an accurate, reliable, clear and non-misleading manner. In order to ensure comparability, it should be drawn up on no more than three pages in format A4 in print form. The transmission of a standardised document will provide the customer with relevant information including, inter alia,: identification and contact details of the manufacturer of the product, identification of the nature and main characteristics of the product, brief description of the risk profile and potential benefits, presentation of the investment costs, both one-off and repeated, identification of the recommended minimum duration of the contract and the possibility to lodge a complaint. It also empowers designated authorities to monitor the market for insurance investment products and to intervene in relation to a product that poses a risk to investor protection, the proper functioning of the market or the stability of the entire financial system. Such intervention will result in a ban or restriction on the distribution and sale of the product concerned. Although the EU regulation will apply directly, it is necessary to adopt provisions in Polish law allowing the application of EU regulations. The draft law amending the Law on Financial Market Supervision and the Act on Insurance and Insurance Activities provides for the designation of the Commission for Financial Supervision as the body responsible for supervision, compliance and enforcement of the Regulation and the imposition of administrative penalties for non-compliance with Union legislation. In addition, the draft law provides for the implementation of the national option from the article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the PRIIP Regulation by requiring the insurance undertaking to provide the Financial Supervision Commission with a key information document at least 30 days before the start of the proposal and at least 14 days before the start of the proposal to update the functioning document. Both the draft law and this regulation will significantly improve the position and safety of consumers with investment products contracts by providing them with certain information in a standardised form prior to the conclusion of the contract. In turn, the mechanism for monitoring the market for insurance investment products and intervention against those products causing the risk should ensure effective elimination of products presenting a risk to customers and the proper functioning of the market so as not to repeat the so-called "market." a common problem with polysolocats. In view of the need to increase the protection of individual investors and the urgent need to ensure the functioning of European Union law, I very much ask the honourable House to work constructively and urgently on the draft law submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u285	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Maria Zuba, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u286	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we begin work on a government bill amending the Law on Financial Market Supervision and the Act on Insurance and Insurance Activities. The project contains legal regulations implementing European Union legislation. Their introduction will increase the level of customer protection. The amendment of two laws, the Financial Market Surveillance Act and the Act on Insurance and Insurance Activities proposed by the Government transfers the provisions contained in the European Union Regulation to the Polish legal order, so it is a kind of instruction setting out detailed requirements for the creation of documents containing key information on retail collective investment products and insurance investment products. The requirements laid down in this project will apply to product makers and sellers. According to the provision in Article. 4 point 8 of the Union Regulation competent authorities to supervise the implementation of the requirements imposed by this Regulation on the creators of retail collective investment products and insurance investment products and the persons advising or selling those products shall mean the national authorities designated by the Member State. In this project, the government points out that in Poland the authority responsible for supervision, compliance and enforcement of the provisions of Regulation No 1286/2014 of the European Union is the Financial Supervision Commission. It shall entrust the committee with the imposition of administrative penalties in accordance with national law. The provisions of the Act clearly specify the scope of these powers and the maximum amount of penalties imposed. The EU rules set penalties for a legal entity up to EUR 5 million and for a natural person up to EUR 7 000. Euros. At the same time, they specify that in Member States whose currency is not the euro, the highest penalty is the equivalent of that amount converted in national currency at the rate applicable on 30 December 2014. Calculated on the basis of this conversion factor and the accounting rules in force in Poland, the designers shall determine the upper limit of the penalty in the provision of the article. Article 3c (3) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the Before deciding on the application of the sanctions, the committee shall take into account all the relevant circumstances which are indicated in the provision of the Article. 25 of the Union Regulation and form a catalogue of areas which must be subject to prior examination and assessment, in particular as regards the seriousness of the infringement and the duration of the infringement, the degree of responsibility of the person responsible for the infringement, the impact of the infringement on the interests of individual investors, the willingness to cooperate with the person responsible for the infringement and any previous infringements committed by the person responsible for the infringement. The amounts collected for fines will constitute revenue to the State budget. The rules proposed by the designers also govern the rules on penalties to be applied to a legal person or an organisational unit without legal personality, which is either a parent undertaking or a subsidiary of a parent undertaking. The draft provides that the decision constituting [[♪ The bell ♪]] the content of the final decision shall be made public by the committee. The Law and Justice Club requests further work on the law and referrals it to the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u287	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Isabel Leszczyn, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u288	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club vis-à-vis a draft implementing European Union law on the so-called regulation. PRIIP, i.e. packaged retail financial instruments. The European Commission considered that individual investors are particularly vulnerable to the risks associated with inadequate investment and insurance products. This regulation is the response of the EU legislature on the really high complexity of investment products and the associated obvious risk of losing the funds invested. This is another step in the process of strengthening the protection of individual investors, making it easier for them to move more safely on the difficult and unfortunately still hungry high profits of the financial market. The Act proposes the creation of the so-called. KIDs. The Minister said so, so I won't say it again. Maybe one point. Of course, the project raises no doubt. However, I am afraid that there will be some difficulty in translating quite complicated terms, concepts into a simple language, in addition to closing them in this short form, but I understand that it is necessary to achieve some comparability. In fact, this project is a continuation of the legislative work carried out by the Sejm of the previous term of office. This favourite question of the Seym majority by 8 years, which appears in this Chamber often, can be answered, that during these 8 years we have introduced a whole series of strongly pro-consumer laws which strengthen the position of the client, especially the individual client, in the financial services market. It was certainly a law on insurance and reinsurance activities. The Minister also mentioned this, so let me remind you that we have introduced a law that protects the insured against the so-called. Polysolocats, i.e. before life insurance contracts with an investment element. Of course, we did so with regard to all those contracts that were to be concluded after the entry into force of the law. The opposition at the time was very dissatisfied with this fact and you claimed that all agreements already concluded had to be terminated. Hence my question to the Minister because it's been two years and I don't see a project that would free people from the polysolocata. If there's anything going on in this area, I'd be very grateful for the information. I would like to remind you that it was in the previous term that we introduced a law on the handling of complaints by financial market entities and about the Financial Ombudsman. This is an instrument that has not been on our market before, i.e. an instrument of redress against financial institutions. Coming back to these KIDs for a while longer, it is in this law that I am talking about, i.e. the Act on Insurance and Insurance, that we introduced this information obligation prior to the conclusion of the life insurance contract with the insurance capital fund, as well as the obligation for the insurance undertaking to carry out an analysis of the needs of the insured person before the conclusion of the contract, so that this product is actually made to measure. Of course, the Civic Platform Club will support this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u289	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz Poselski Club15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u290	Without the Kukiz. Kukiz is sick. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Allow me to quote some comments on the proposal for a new law, which is, as we know, the implementation of the 2014 European Parliament and Council Regulation, as amended in 2016 by the relevant regulation, which requires, first of all, the identification of the authority that will supervise and enforce the provisions of the Regulation, including the imposition of penalties, as my predecessor has already mentioned here. The draft shall indicate the Financial Supervision Commission. It's probably the only authority that could handle it, and it's an organ that likes to scare punishment very much. The Act deals with retail collective investment products and insurance investment products, i.e. things that an average mortal does not understand. Unfortunately, the bill does nothing to think about what to do so that the average mortal has a better chance of understanding this market and these products. We know that this EU regulation has become part of our legal order, in accordance with Article. 288 The Treaty on European Union is directly applicable, but amendments to the Financial Market Surveillance Act are necessary due to the specificities of our Polish regulation, as well as the need to adapt terminology to this, to determine the amount of penalties that would be appropriate for our market. It has been decided to change this in this law, not in sectoral laws, because as the justification says, it is about creating a legal framework possibly for future products that may arise, where there may be problems with determining which category of products they should be placed in, and we want them to be covered by those obligations which the law and regulation are talking about. But it's not quite... This is not exactly consistent as the provisions in Article are being introduced. 366 of the Insurance Act, where we move those provisions that define the prohibitions and restrictions of the Article. 17 regulations. The regulation, of course, imposes a huge amount of obligations on economic operators in this industry. This is in line with this joyful line of our bureaucratic life. There is probably not much we can do as long as the European Union is consistent in its action, that it is necessary to improve the world by increasing the various types of bureaucratic mechanisms. Then we have little choice. On the other hand, we will all agree that the consumer, the customer, should be protected. In another field, because they were not insurance products, but so-called. The Amber Gold scandal is an example of this, and at the moment it is widely recognised that the state may have failed. I'm a little afraid that the entire catalogue of penalties that is being prepared in these current regulations is going only one way to punish, bureaucraticize, make it difficult, but you don't think at all that, for example. the affair of Amber Gold, and other possibly similar ones that may occur on the insurance product market, was mainly due to the fact that our society is not prepared, is not properly trained within the meaning of the increasingly complex market, in this case the insurance market. Personally, I believe that the penalty money provided for in this law should not constitute a direct income for the State Treasury, just as it should be, a fund and money should be created for training, for the dissemination of knowledge in the field of products, in this case insurance, widely understood. [[Black posters again.]] For example, as you say, by means of a billboard campaign, where you could increase the funding for training, prepare people who would start working in schools accordingly, because we need to start with children and young people, so that this complicated financial world, which each of us enters, is understandable and that the possibility of a hustler, [[♪ The bell ♪]] including criminal activities, was limited. Through knowledge, because it's easier to protect yourself from knowledge than punishments and prisons. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u291	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u292	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! In fact, this bill does not leave us much room to change. This is an amendment related to the implementation of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union on documents relating to retail collective investment products and insurance investment products. The whole regulation, as my predecessors have already said, is aimed at increasing the protection of the individual's interests against too complex and often incomprehensible insurance products for him. The amendment identifies the Financial Supervision Commission as the body responsible for supervision, but also for compliance, enforcement and amendment, imposing administrative penalties on insurance undertakings, insurance brokers, insurance agents, investment funds and banks offering retail collective investment products and insurance investment products. There are a few issues that can be discussed on such an occasion. This is the first thing, that is that we often say, with such amendments related to the implementation of the EU Regulation, that it is the responsibility of the government to negotiate that any administrative penalties should be tailored to the scale and size of our market. And here we are dealing with punishment again. The penalty should be severe, undoubtedly, but it should be matched, it cannot be shifted from a market that usually works much larger, to our market. That's one thing. The second point is the protection of an individual client. We have such a habit in Poland that if we are to regulate something, we like to add five other issues to it, to cover five other areas, which makes it even more bureaucratic than it has to be, even more than it is justified. This is an appeal to the Ministry of Finance. We must remember, ladies and gentlemen, that any unjustified overregulation of the financial market ends in the fact that financial products, insurance products simply cost money. Today we have this moment where different insurance costs us. We had a problem with the insurance of OC, very much noticeable to average Kowalski. We're probably gonna have a relationship in a minute. with a storm that has gone through our country, a huge increase in the insurance of homes and individual property. Any over-regulation of the market, too far-reaching regulations impose bureaucratic burdens on insurers, on insurance companies, and thus create additional costs for them, will be reflected at the end of the day on Jana Kowalski, who, in order to feel safe, must buy out in one way or another. Of course, if we are talking about an insurance and investment product, this product may also turn out to be less profitable for it. So here's the appeal to actually be moderate enough not to pour out a baby with a bath or overregulation. The subject of education is also important here. In fact, the level of economic education and, as a result, let's throw it in - insurance education in Poland is low. It's worth thinking about, though... [[There isn't at all.]] Yeah, it's practically gone. This probably happens more at home than at the level of this school. One day it would be worth thinking that in the older primary school classes, one lesson in economics should finally be included. Then, surely, such problems would be more understandable to customers who would be less deceiving in their adult lives. We must remember that even large and complicated regulations will not protect us from the fact that even a good and normal insurance and investment product will not simply be understood by ordinary Kowalski, because he does not even have the basic knowledge of economics or e.g. insurance, because unfortunately no one in Poland enters into adult life with such knowledge. And that's what I think, [[♪ The bell ♪]] A huge lesson that our country must finally do. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u293	Thank you very much. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u294	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the draft law amending the Law on Financial Market Supervision and the Act on Insurance and Insurance Activities, print No. 1782. This government bill implements European Union law. This concerns Regulation No 1286/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 November 2014 on documents relating to retail collective investment products and insurance investment products, as amended by Regulation No 2016/2340 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2016. The project introduces amendments to two laws in Polish law. The first is the Law of 21 July 2006 on the supervision of the financial market. This project strongly strengthens the role of the NCF, identifies the Financial Supervision Commission as the body responsible for the supervision, compliance and enforcement of the Regulation and imposing administrative penalties for non-compliance with the provisions of that Regulation. Similarly, by amending the Act of 11 September 2015 on Insurance and Insurance Activities, the project imposes obligations on insurance companies, insurance brokers, insurance agents and banks offering insurance investment products to apply the provisions of Regulation 1286/2014. Attention - it must be said - deserves the fact that in the process of preparing this project, the government consulted the institutions concerned. Comments and comments were made by: National Bank of Poland, Financial Supervision Commission, Polish Insurance Association, Confederation of Leviatan, Board of Directors of Funds and Assets, Association of Polish Banks. Some... A lot - it has to be said - these comments have been introduced into the bill, but some of the proposals have not been taken into account mainly for this reason, as explained by the government party, that the regulation is directly applicable in all Member States, and the detailing of the bill would be merely a transfer of the provisions of the regulation to national law. We are in favour of directing the project to further work in the Committee on Public Finance, where I believe it will be possible to examine all the provisions and new proposals. In general, it should be concluded that the project implementing this EU law increases the level of customer protection, increases safety, but it should also increase citizens' confidence in the activities of insurance companies and other distributors offering insurance investment products. Since I still have time, I think I will join today's collective vote on the education of young Poles in these issues, which are not so simple again, it is about getting to know them with such wordings. To be honest, even on the basis of such a personal thread, that my grandson went to the fourth grade in English school because his parents were in England for a year, and he already had this kind of class in the fourth grade concerning banking, insurance and more life sciences. It's just a digression. To conclude, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is in favour of directing the project to work in committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u295	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'm closing the list after the first question. Question time - 2 minutes. Katarzyna Czochar, Law and Justice have the floor. Are you an MP? There is no Member. In that case, I invite Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u296	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the event of a breach of the provisions of Regulation No 1286/2014, the Financial Supervision Commission may impose fines at levels the upper ceiling of which is set at a very high level, as these amounts, I will remind you, 21 569 thousand. in the case of a legal person or an organisational unit without legal personality and PLN 3 019 660 in the case of a natural person. It is clear that these amounts are inadequate to our Polish conditions. Hence my question: Why do we accept these unrealistic values? Is it true, as my predecessor has already said, that the main objective is to deter these abuses and to prevent them from complying with the law in this regard? Because we know that the European Commission's directive contains certain values expressed in euro, but I also believe that we should not make ridiculous decisions. What is the possibility of changing these rates? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u297	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u298	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Today, we are taking two steps on the information obligation, this is another step in the information obligation, which includes the mortgage investment credit law, and shows what are the obligations of the lender towards the borrower, i.e. the insurance company in relation to its client in respect of retail collective investment products and insurance investment products. Apart from the obligation to inform, I would like the Minister to say - because it is about the so-called. Polysolocats and this period before the date of the amending provisions - as far as the market has been able to minimise the commissions charged for the early termination of contracts and whether it is possible, in your opinion, to introduce the minimum level to be achieved by this investment product. Why am I talking about this? On the one hand, with mortgage loans, we have a series of charts, because I could show you what this book is, which the client gets. In this case, how can we ensure the minimum level of profitability of the investment guaranteed by the entity with which we conclude such an agreement? Whether after the introduction of information obligations, because we talk about them and they increase, from contracts to complete charts concerning, among others. strategy, investment and others, is it possible and are you leaning on it? Because since 2004 we have introduced an increasingly important information obligation. Soon it will be a book, and without a good preparation for it, unfortunately not everyone will be able to do it alone. [[♪ The bell ♪]] His contract, even though he's gonna have time to interpret it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u299	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u300	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The project aims to increase the safety of entrepreneurs. However, a few people spoke here about the fact that the language of this law is very complicated, for many, unfortunately incomprehensible. My question is: How will the proposed law affect the activities of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises? Will there be any new obligations on entrepreneurs? If so, what is it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u301	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Piotr Nowak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u302	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! As for Mrs Tokarska's question about these amounts, I understand that they seem absurd, excessive, as said by Mrs Tokarska, 21,5 million for the institution, 3 million PLN for the person, let's call it individual. But these are the conditions for being in the European Union, this is the level imposed on us by the European Union. [[Someone's not gonna make that much money their whole life.]] We could force these amounts to change, but we would not simply be recognised as implementing this regulation and we would have unimplemented European law. Please note that the European Union has it in its own right that there is some consensus being sought there and that is the chosen average. For, I don't know, institutions in Germany may be small amounts, but they must already have some effect. For Poland, these are powerful amounts. This is how the European Union works. But I wouldn't be so afraid of it, because it's not like the Financial Supervision Committee is imposing maximum penalties right away. There's no such thing. I have the pleasure of sitting, representing the Minister of Finance in the Financial Supervision Committee, and I am witnessing that the committee usually tries to give minimum penalties, only when someone does, let's call it a routine redecisive, which means it doesn't remove certain things or commit the same offences all the time, then the penalties are progressive, so that they will have an effect. On the other hand, usually with the first penalty is weighed, whether it was accidental or intentionally, what the damage was. So that it is not that the Financial Supervision Commission will be able to impose 21.5 million immediately. I have not encountered such cases, but it is meaningful, gradual, because the committee also evaluates the conditions of functioning in our reality. So this may at first glance scare us, but as we dig into the whole process and get to know the experience that the Financial Supervision Committee shows, how it works, I think we'll see that there's no point It's scary out here. Unfortunately, however, we cannot change it, even though we would like to. As for Mrs Skowrońska's question, it also connects a little bit with what Minister Leszczyna said, which asked a question about the work related to polysolocats. I mean, the UOKiK under the leadership of the President at the end of 2016 concluded a consensus with insurance companies. It was 17 insurance companies. An agreement has been concluded between insurance companies, it has been in force since 1 January 2017, and charges for early termination of these contracts when someone felt that they had sold not exactly what they wanted were practically kept to a minimum. A lot of money has been paid to customers. This applies to more than 600,000. agreements. 600,000. customers benefited from this solution, to a large extent also seniors who felt that they had been sold a product not the one they wanted, which they were looking for. So these types of termination fees have really been minimized. From this point of view, I think the problem is so-called. The polysolokat has already been solved in some ways. As regards the minimum rate of return guarantees, whether it could be guaranteed, the President, the Member, knows very well that the guarantee of the rate of return only provides bank deposits or, safer, Treasury bonds. Unfortunately, there is an investment risk associated with everything else. You can create products that guarantee a minimum rate of return, but usually this will also reduce potential profit, because we know that it is probably the time to purchase a financial instrument, which is extremely complicated, and this is an option. And let's not fool ourselves, but very often people who finish their economic or financial studies do not fully understand how an option works or an option portfolio, because these are non-linear instruments and a wallet behaves very often very differently than a single option. This is financial engineering really advanced. Thus, such products with a guaranteed rate of return are available, while the statutory minimum guaranteed rate cannot be entered. As far as the impact is concerned, Mrs Michalek, on the situation of micro- and small enterprises, this regulation concerns financial institutions to a large extent, and these are large companies, powerful companies. So if we charge them - in fact, the issue of the European Union in some way - some additional costs, it seems to us that the profit for the customer, i.e. to minimize the risk of so-called. Misselling products, is much larger than this minimum cost for these powerful financial institutions. However, this does not apply to micro and small enterprises. If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal, I'd also like to address some questions from a few club representatives about financial education. Yes, we have noticed this problem very clearly, because we think it is limping and that it has been neglected for many years in our country. He's at the Finance Minister's Board of Financial Market Development. Several months or over a year ago, we called it up and created a sub-group for the development of a financial education system so that market participants, practitioners, institutions related to the financial market can prepare a programme of teaching it at school to minimise the risk of misselling or misunderstanding the investment risk that the client takes or proposes. The work lasted a few months and I don't remember, but four months or five months ago we already sent a letter with developed issues that should be addressed according to the council and which should include an education program. It went to the Ministry of Education. I know that the Ministry of Education has created a team of experts who are trying to harmonise it with the curriculum. So from our point of view, we see this problem and we try with the Ministry. We are going to ask this because we want it to be introduced, because it is the basic knowledge of moving in the present, so to speak, the economy. However, let us not be fooled, we are talking about many financial instruments here, and these are often complicated instruments. Option instruments often enter, as there is a guaranteed rate of return, and even here, as I say, students ending sometimes economic directions also do not fully understand everything. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u303	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Law on Financial Market Supervision and the Act on Insurance and Insurance Activities, contained in print No 1782, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm, based on the article. The 95b Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 27 September 2017. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[How about seven minutes?]] At the request of the Member, I am announcing a 7-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 mins 56 hours 16 min 04]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: First reading of the government bill on insurance distribution (print No 1781). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Piotr Nowak to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u304	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to present to the High House a new comprehensive regulation on insurance distribution. The adoption of the new Insurance Distribution Act, in place of the existing Act of 22 May 2003 on insurance intermediation, results primarily from the need to implement into the national legal order the provisions of Directive (EU) 2016/97 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 January 2016 on insurance distribution, so-called. IDD. Member States of the European Union should implement this Directive by 23 February 2018. The draft law introduces solutions to improve existing insurance mediation regulations and extend the scope of the rules to all insurance distribution channels. The aim of the bill is also to ensure undistorted competition, consumer protection and market integration. According to the IDD, customers seeking insurance protection should benefit from protection at the same level, regardless of the differences between distribution channels. The draft law follows the IDD Directive therefore covers all insurance distribution entities, irrespective of the distribution channel. Insurance distributors will therefore be both insurance intermediaries and insurance undertakings. In the case of insurance intermediaries, it is envisaged that the entity divides intermediaries into brokers and insurance agents, subject to the inadmissibility of combining the two functions. An entity's breakdown is a classic picture of insurance mediation where only brokers or agents registered as brokers can perform mediation activities. In addition, it is proposed that agency activities and agency activities, in addition to insurance agents, should also carry out a new category of entities - additional insurance agents. In turn, the direct performance by the insurance undertaking of the activities relating to the distribution of insurance will be possible through authorised employees' insurance undertakings. Such activities are defined as the distribution activities of the insurance undertaking. Notwithstanding insurance distribution, the draft law regulates the reinsurance distribution process, which has so far been regulated as part of insurance mediation, as well as the distribution process of insurance guarantee contracts. The inclusion of the provisions of the Act on the conclusion and execution of insurance guarantee contracts will ensure that the interests of clients of insurance undertakings containing such contracts and beneficiaries of those guarantees are properly secured. The IDD Directive introduces a number of additional solutions of a pro-consumer nature. The primary obligation is to ensure that insurance distributors behave honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of customers. Nor will the remuneration of the insurance distributor and the persons using which the agency activities will be carried out be incompatible with the obligation to act in accordance with the best interests of the customers. In the pre-contractual stage, in order to enable the customer to make an informed decision, the draft law provides for an obligation to determine, on the basis of the information obtained, its individual requirements and needs. The customer will then be provided in an understandable form with objective information about the insurance contract. In the case of property insurance, this information will be provided in the form of a standardised contract information document covering inter alia. a brief description of insurance protection, the method of payment of contributions, the obligations of the parties at different stages of the contract, the obligations in the event of a claim and the way in which the contract is terminated. Notwithstanding the provision of information about the insurance contract to the customer before the contract is concluded, information about the insurance distributor will be provided, including, but not limited to, information about the insurance distributor. information on the nature of the remuneration received in connection with the proposed conclusion of the insurance contract or insurance guarantee contract. In the case of investment insurance contracts, it is proposed to extend information obligations, inter alia. disclosure of distribution and commission costs. These costs will be disclosed in the form of indicators representing the share of the assumed acquisition costs and commission costs in the sum of the insurance premiums due under the insurance contract in the recommended minimum duration of the contract. The obligation of insurance distributors to provide customers with information on the amount of distribution costs and commissions from investment insurance contracts in order to prevent the phenomenon of so-called. Misselling, which is the wrong sale, which we also talked about on the occasion of the previous bill. This information will provide a comprehensive picture of the costs of the investment insurance contract for the seeker. Pro-consumer solutions include:: providing any information to customers free of charge, in a clear, accurate and comprehensible manner and in the official language of the Member State of the European Union in which the insurance contract is concluded, or in another language to which the parties agree; ensuring the functioning of out-of-court complaint and compensation procedures to settle disputes between customers and insurance distributors, including. on the basis of the Polish legal system, the Law on the handling of complaints by financial market entities and about the Financial Ombudsman; the obligation for insurance intermediaries and employees of insurance undertakings to receive 15 hours of professional training per year in order to provide them with appropriate professional qualifications. In view of past irregularities in the draft law, particular attention shall be paid to the distribution of investment insurance. Therefore, additional requirements are introduced in the draft law, inter alia. as regards the prevention of conflicts of interest, cross-selling, assessment of suitability and appropriateness, as well as information provided to customers. The proposed solutions are primarily designed to increase the transparency of sales of such products. The proposed solutions also involve additional tasks of the Financial Supervision Commission as a supervisory authority. The bill assumes, among others, keeping a register of insurance intermediaries in the online registration system, extending the scope of the data collected therein and monitoring the market for insurance products that are placed on the market, distributed or sold. The scope of the supervisory authority's powers will also include the application of the administrative sanctions provided for in case of failure to comply with the obligations laid down in the Act. The supervisory authority will be authorised, inter alia. to issue a public statement indicating the distributor responsible and the nature of the infringement, the imposition of a penalty or the deletion of an infringement insurance intermediary from the register. It is proposed that the Act should enter into force on 23 February 2018, i.e. with the last possible date of implementation of the provisions necessary for the implementation of the IDD Directive. Earlier, i.e. provisions ensuring the implementation of the Article should enter into force on 3 January 2018. 91 Directive 2014/65/EU on markets in financial instruments and amending Directive 2002/92/EC and Directive 2011/61/EU relating to additional customer protection requirements for investment products based on insurance. In view of the need to improve the situation of customers with insurance contracts, as well as the forthcoming deadline for implementing European Union law, I ask the High House to work constructively and urgently on the draft law on insurance distribution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u305	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u306	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft Law on the distribution of insurance from printing No 1781 introduces new arrangements concerning the rules for the pursuit of the business of distribution of personal and property insurance and reinsurance as a result of the need to implement the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, which was just mentioned, of 20 January 2016. The aim of the solutions introduced, the main objective, is to increase the protection of customers using different forms of insurance, which is totally justified, because the last months and even years have provided us with quite a number of examples of unreliability, even fraud, and the resulting harm of many people, many entities. The victims were often especially elderly, less market-based and financial market-based. Although some provisions implemented by the Directive already exist in the Polish legal order, new solutions offer an opportunity to improve this situation. The Directive applies to all insurance distributors, but also provides for the subjective exemptions of certain businesses, with precise conditions to be met in order to be excluded from the provisions of that Directive. It is rational to maintain the division of insurance mediation activities between insurance brokers working in favour of insurance cover waiters and insurance agents performing activities on behalf of or for the benefit of an insurance undertaking. The specific definition of distribution activities carried out by natural and legal persons also clarifies the obligations as the substance of these activities. At the same time, the distribution of insurance and distribution of reinsurance, as well as the insurance broker and the reinsurance broker and their obligations are distinguished, which is a novelty in relation to Polish law, where the reinsurance broker was a sub-type of insurance broker. The Directive imposes information obligations on insurance and reinsurance distributors in the field of advice, a fair assessment of pre-contractual offers, which will allow for a more rational or optimal choice of the offer by the interested party, with which so far there have been serious problems. The Act clarifies what is meant by insurance and reinsurance distribution and what is not (e.g. the professional handling of claims against insurance undertakings or the liquidation and valuation of damages). It is also beneficial for customers to include insurance guarantee contracts under the Act, as well as the possibility to conclude insurance guarantee contracts via websites and to supervise them by KNF. So far, reliability, integrity and professionalism in the service of the insured customer have been required in Poland. This is also stressed in the Directive, but in addition the Directive introduces an obligation to disclose the remuneration of intermediaries, the amount of the fee paid by the customer or the commission covered by the insurance contribution, which can counter certain conflicts of interest. Also e.g. whether the distributor is working for one establishment or for several, it can also help improve customer service and help them to make a rational decision. The bill introduces very important solutions, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which are good for the transparency of contracts: the right to request information also in the form of...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u307	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u308	...electronic except for paper and many, many other solutions. It also clarifies penalties, sanctions...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u309	Madame, I am so sorry, but time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u310	... administrative and criminal violations in this area. I think the project is absolutely necessary...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u311	I do not know if the Member hears what I say or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u312	...and we are in favour of directing him to committee work or even the subcommittee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u313	Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform. [[You're not exaggerating, one minute.]] Madam President, let us guard certain standards. Everyone has the same amount of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u314	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, it is my pleasure to present my position in relation to the Act on Insurance Distribution, Parliamentary Printing No. 1781. In detail, a project was presented by the Minister implementing or adapting Polish legislation to European Union legislation on information obligations. Full agreement on all those elements that refer to the information obligation as regards the information that the customer should have in relation to the purchase of insurance or investment products, insurance investment products. And we agree with that, although there is this new obligation that gives the customer a certain right to read everything that is part of the contract. The contract should therefore be clearly and precisely formulated and clearly communicated to the buyer of the product. In this respect, these acquisition costs and contribution costs are undoubtedly important, but they say little to the buyer, to the consumer. For us a much more important element would be the introduction of a product's price policy on the Polish market as well. This is extremely important in this light. Maybe it's easy to change this price of the product, we're talking about insurance, in the context of the last period of the increase in motor insurance. There are young people sitting in the courtroom. I'm sure they don't even know what we're talking about. We would also like a price policy to be applied after such a provision has been introduced. Not so that an insurance undertaking can freely create a product price, and the market was competitive, because it is difficult for the customer to move on this market. We are talking about all our responsibilities, so the agreement will no longer be this small agreement, i.e. a short agreement that we have dealt with so far. I had the pleasure of working on the bill that introduced insurance distribution, i.e. insurance mediation. It is the law of 22 May 2003. As an example of the introduction of an information obligation on mortgage lending, we can say that this is a book. All information is received by the customer. How do I protect my client from making sure his insurance doesn't increase significantly next year? There must be a need for good education in this area. As far as retail collective investment products and insurance investment products are concerned, we have said that education is needed for all those who buy the product or buy insurance. This is extremely important to us. We are pleased that, on behalf of the Civic Platform, I had the opportunity to present to the High House a bill concerning the introduction of a new institution of the financial spokesman, which in the case of insurance replaced the institution of the insurance Ombudsman. In cooperation with the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, it shall ensure that the products sold are valued, first, fairly and that all rights which are available to the insured person in this case are recognised. So today, as regards the scope of the complaint of all that should be found, which should be included in the insurance contract or in the contract of a given product, there is a financial spokesman, this institution of additional protection. The country in the previous section of the meeting spoke of protection against certain Amber Gold institutions. I would like to conclude by saying that this institution, the company that was founded, was a criminal company and its activities were incompatible with the applicable law. In this respect, it acted outside the Polish legal order and had no right to collect deposits from the market. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In this case, there was no consent. The Commission for Financial Supervision informed, in its warnings, as well as today, that institutions appear on the market which cannot act under Polish law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u315	Thank you, Member. Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u316	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At first, I will refer to what you have just said. Full agreement, here I quoted the example of Amber Gold, but not in a political sense. I meant more about the audience's attitude, the client's attitude. An uneducated customer can be kidnapped on any product, even the worst. In this case, I agree here, this client was mostly into sneakiness and advertising. I do not want to introduce elements of the current political party fight into a case that affects many of our citizens. Here, on the other hand, I would like to thank you very much for the fact that the Member concludes that... I have also heard this from a Member of the Law and Justice just now. We all see the need to change the attitude of our right to these complex products that are now emerging on the market. We must move away from the bureaucratic method, even though this law, which we are talking about at the moment, replaces the insurance mediation law and introduces this IDD directive. And we continue to do it bureaucratically, which is to increase bureaucratic obligations, increase the price of insurance, increase the number of people who work then, accuse agents of various responsibilities, etc. All this on behalf of customer protection. Okay, this is the world we are living in right now, and the directive is forcing us to do so, and I wanted to say that we need to start thinking about changing that, as you have already mentioned. It was also polite for you to mention that we need to start training already, with an apology, from our young citizens, so that they know what world they live in. I just told my friends that. When I was a young student at school, I was taught in WT classes of various useful abilities: crochet, saw cutting, etc., etc. The world has changed right now. We must teach our young people at primary school to understand the basic institutions they are about to meet. At the moment, young people no longer need to buy a piece of wood to cut it, just buy insurance products, buy financial products, and need to know how it works. Only then will there be room for all kinds of criminals, not even criminals, but not entirely honest people who want to get rich at their expense. Therefore education, education and education, as little bureaucracy as possible. This bill introduces enormous bureaucracy. Like I said, we have no choice, because it is EU law, so we must introduce it and we will probably support it, but I would like it to be aware that bureaucracy and increased responsibilities, overregulations do not solve the general issue. We don't have a better instrument yet, no one's invented it. This instrument, probably better, is training. We're not gonna train everyone, and we're not gonna teach people how to avoid that kind of cunning, but we have to at least try. Then the client protection in this bill... Besides, we have a little bit of a problem with that, because we don't exactly know who the client is, who is the person looking for insurance protection, we have some confusion about what an agency operation is. There's gonna be a big field for lawyers and tax advisors. Well, that's good. However, we need to know that even if we increase the role of the KNF in this law and increase the role of the financial spokesman - in this existing world we need to do so - but I would like to see that the bureaucratic method is not the only possible method of protecting the client, protecting the citizen, that there are other methods that are mainly based on increasing awareness, increasing the level of protection of our client, that is, our citizen. We as Members should contribute to this in order to at least increase this sensitivity. And I am very pleased that the previous Members have noticed that they are talking about it. The example that you have provided, hypothetical loans, that we start with paper, a book that this client doesn't understand, but we have a bureaucratic obligation to do it, and that it doesn't settle the matter. We have to do this because the law has to be respected, but we have to think about other methods as well. Therefore, we will support this, so that further work on this law will continue, because we have no other option, but I would also like us all to work on this bill as well... There are very serious punishments here, even two years in prison, but also financial penalties. I believe that all the funds that go to the Treasury from such sources, [[♪ The bell ♪]] should be directed towards training, to increasing the financial awareness of our citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u317	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u318	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government bill on insurance distribution, included in print No. 1781. High Izbo! The draft law is the result of work on implementing the provisions of the European Parliament and Council Directive on insurance distribution into the Polish legal order. The deadline for implementing this Directive is 23 February 2018, as the Minister seems to have said, which gives us relatively little time to adopt these provisions. Although this is a fundamental act for the insurance market, very important from the point of view of both business and customers, this deadline is rather short and we will probably have little time for a calm debate. Of course, alongside the directive I mentioned, this law also implements other provisions, so this is, I would say, a comprehensive regulation. The law on which we are proceeding contains, as I have already said, specific arrangements concerning the insurance market, including agents and brokers, specific provisions concerning the business activity in the area of insurance and requirements in relation to registers, and defines supervisory authorities and criminal rules, as has already been mentioned here. Consequently, the Act will replace the existing Act of 22 May 2003 on insurance mediation. Of course, due to the formulation of this debate, i.e. the five-minute statements, it is difficult to refer to specific provisions, so we have here, I would say, a more general opinion, and this in-depth discussion will take place - we hope so - in committee meetings. I think it is a good thing that, as a result of this directive, this bill strengthens the protection of persons who conclude insurance contracts. This is extremely important, because it is quite complicated material. It concerns an important aspect of everyday life for people, also related to security. It is worth mentioning that this level will be the same, regardless of distribution channels, and even if there are certain exemptions there, the law introduces certain minimum requirements that even this organisation will have to comply with. Among these elements which strengthen the position of customers are provisions on information obligations. That, of course, is good, although I agree with the thesis, which has often fallen from this speaker, that information obligations do not in fact solve the problem. Today's products are so complicated that without the right background, i.e. economic knowledge, financial knowledge, we are very often unable to fully understand the meaning of the documents that we sign. Therefore, we certainly need this economic education and such, I would say, economic background, to fully benefit from the information privileges that give us further laws. The obligation to train employees, insurance agents, as set out in Article, will certainly contribute to the better performance of their duties. 14, especially since such lifelong learning is absolutely necessary if this is to be done for the benefit of customers. Someone has already mentioned obligations concerning the disclosure by the distributor of the nature of the remuneration received. This is obviously a major change from the client's point of view, which will help to increase transparency, but it is of course It will also increase security and provide a wide range of information needed for decision-making, but the idea is that a customer who has such contracts will have enough information to understand as much as possible. The project also contains legal grounds for creating a new register of intermediaries. This will also be available to the public and allow customers to verify the powers of agents. This, of course, is also a step towards those who conclude such agreements, that is as rational as possible. Of course, there are also penalties, but as I said, it seems that an in-depth discussion will be possible at committee meetings. Therefore, on behalf of the Poselski Club Modern proposal to transfer the project to the committees for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u319	Thank you. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u320	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present my position towards the government draft law on insurance distribution, print no. 1781. The bill, another one, is the implementation in Polish law of the European Parliament directive on insurance distribution, as well as a partial implementation of the directives on markets and financial instruments and on insurance mediation. These Directives introduce a single legal regime for the insurance market in all the Member States of the European Union, or otherwise, covering all the countries of the European Economic Area. They therefore leave, in principle, a small margin to regulate legally through individual Member States. That is why the bill contains provisions allowing cross-border insurance services. The main objective of the project is to ensure consumer protection, fair competition and integration of the insurance market. The project strongly strengthens the position of supervisors, i.e. The Financial Supervision Commission, and it sets out very detailed rules for the functioning of insurance companies, agents, brokers of insurance mediation. The project strictly defines the entities that are subject to the Act, contains an extensive vocabulary of concepts, determines the nature of the distribution of insurance, stresses that the insurance distributor is obliged to act honestly, fairly, professionally, according to the best interests of customers. The Act obliges very widely understood customer information activities, in relation to supervisory authorities, including the Financial Supervision Commission and the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority. The Act sets out organisational requirements for the entire insurance market and standards for the knowledge and skills of persons working in the system and imposes obligations for the continuous training of persons employed there. In addition, the project standardises the rules for the creation, approval and sale of insurance products, as well as the keeping of certain registers concerning both products and insurance companies. Separate emphasis is placed on insurance investment products. In the Polish legal system such a product is life insurance related to the insurance capital fund. The implementing Directive and the draft law lay down additional requirements for insurance investment products in the prevention of conflicts of interest. The draft also provides for certain sanctions, including criminal sanctions, in the event of a breach by firms of obligations and requirements arising from the submitted project. This document is quite extensive, extensive, and unfortunately contains records repeated in print project 1782, which, I think, should be eliminated in the course of further work on this project. In addition, the 10 regulations of the Minister for Development and Finance are an integral part of it, which clarify some of the solutions designed by the Act. The project has been consulted with many institutions and contains many solutions proposed by these institutions. In general, it should be assessed that the bill is a pro-consumer project that raises the awareness and safety of insured persons through the included requirements, mainly information, but also organisational and supervisory. May I just add that the draft insurance distribution law replaces the existing insurance mediation law in its entirety and amends seven other laws as well. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is in favour of passing the law on to further work in the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u321	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u322	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government bill on insurance distribution. This project implements into the Polish legal order Directive 206/97 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 January 2016 on insurance distribution and partly a number of other EU directives, among others. on markets in financial instruments and on insurance mediation. The newly constructed regulations that we are currently working on are designed to increase the safety of citizens using the services offered in the insurance market. Moreover, through the development of public awareness, they should also increase the interest in such products and the development of the entire industry. The tools proposed by the designers to support the fulfilment of the basic objective of the Act are mainly based on the tightening of the current conditions that insurance sellers will have to fulfil. According to the new rules, insurance distributors will be required to provide additional vocational training each year, which will increase their competence and ability to match the customer's offers. Introducing an obligation to inform customers whether a distributor is acting for one or more insurers, of the nature of their remuneration, the amount of distribution costs and commission costs, will increase the trust of the parties to the insurance industry, and will eliminate situations in which instead of the client's well-being they will be guided by their own profits. Among the solutions that benefit customers and increase their protection in this project are also among others. the decision in favour of the complaint, if the insurance agent fails to reply to it within 30 days of the submission, to include the insurance distribution market in the supervision of the KNF with the possibility of imposing administrative penalties and to give the KNF the competence to keep a register of insurance intermediaries. In summary, the regulations contained in the bill are thought out and will positively affect the entire industry. Despite some opinions that only one insurance company will benefit from their introduction, I believe that they will ultimately increase the transparency and fairness of transactions in the insurance market. I have no doubt that, above all, the citizen will gain from increasing transparency and eliminating unfair competition. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceding this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u323	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'm closing the list after the first question. Question time - 2 minutes. I invite Catherine Chechara, the Law and Justice. There is no Member. Please, Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u324	Minister! The Directive places great emphasis on the issue of supervision. I would therefore like to ask whether, in the case of infringements of the law or failure to fulfil obligations in this insurance mediation activity, the solutions introduced by the directive significantly increase this responsibility with regard to the existing provisions in Poland. This includes both administrative responsibility and penalties, sanctions. Will we see more nuisance or ailment of sanctions as a result of this directive, and to what extent, with regard to our current solutions? And then there's the second line. There is also an obligation to exchange information at international level as regards other supervisory authorities. Does this directive extend e.g. the scope of information that KNF must provide to other supervisory authorities in relation to what has been done so far? How much is this information more internationalised as a result of the directive? Maybe one more quick question. Is the ombudsman's powers in any way impaired by this directive, or will the out-of-court proceedings on these matters continue to be conducted, as has been the case so far, before the ombudsman? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u325	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u326	I have the following questions for the Minister regarding the draft law. Did the entry into force of the law on 23 February next year in full - with the exceptions that are written in the project about which the Minister spoke... Will we be prepared by this date to establish a list of brokers who will have the appropriate authorizations? Because that's what we're preparing for in this bill. That's not the register. That's one thing. Secondly, before the entry into force of the law, is this training - related to the requirement for employees to receive 15 hours of training... How are those who will be obliged to do so to do so? Is this to be completed by this date of entry into force of the Act? Is it already that day, or after that date will this obligation of successive training of employees be introduced? It is important to have full clarity in this regard. Would the Minister agree - because he did not answer questions, means answers to questions asked during club speeches, and the voice of the parliamentary club is to direct to further work in the subcommittee on the application of also price policy of products, even those of one year, to tighten the criteria even more - so that it is possible not to introduce, for 8 years, drastic price increases have not been introduced, e.g. motor insurance, cars. In 2017, we faced such an extraordinary and very high, and a very cost-effective increase in insurance prices for customers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u327	Thank you. Please, Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u328	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! My question is: Do applicants see the possibility to amend this law and the law previously discussed, namely that funds derived from penalties would be aimed at creating a system of training for young people in order to increase their awareness and knowledge of the financial market, which can protect them from unfair practices when selling financial and insurance products? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u329	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Piotr Nowak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u330	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! As regards Mrs Masłowska's question on the issue of supervision and accountability - whether there have been increased sanctions - no, sanctions are similar, so here there is virtually no increase in criminality or tightening of certain rigors for operators. No, the directive does not introduce it, and neither do we. When it comes to the obligation to exchange information through KNF with other international regulators - whether something changes here - it is not, it also remains virtually unchanged, so there are no additional burdens for the regulator. As far as the powers of the Financial Ombudsman are concerned, they are even extended to intermediaries. But when it comes to out-of-court proceedings, they are... As regards all complaints, the Ombudsman will be able to conduct out-of-court proceedings, so here even the powers of the Financial Ombudsman are extended. As for Mrs Skowronska's question about this register of brokers - whether everything will be prepared here, whether we will be able to do it - now the register of brokers already exists in the KNF - it is a duty, so this law will introduce only certain modernisations for this register. He's here, so there's no risk that something can't be introduced on time. With regard to the obligation to conduct these 15-hour trainings every year, there is a transitional provision here that it does not have to be in the first year. There is a transitional provision that by the end of 2019 at least one such 15-hour training should be carried out, so here we are giving additional time for financial institutions to be able to organize and prepare an appropriate program, also so that it is all done as it should be, because it is not about the training being done, but it has not changed anything. As far as Mr Rometsky is concerned, the changes in whether these funds from penalties could be transferred to a fund, I think it might be worth discussing when it comes to committee work. I do not know if you have been before. I wanted to emphasise - as I have already told you - that the Minister of Finance is the Council for the Development of the Financial Market and we have seen the problem of social education in this area. Unfortunately, for many, many years it has been overlooked, a little neglected, so to speak. Several months ago, a working group on financial education was formed on this board. Market representatives, institutions, regulators had several meetings to develop the programme, what topics should be discussed in the curriculum in schools, so that people, representatives of our society or citizens, finishing the right level of education, have some financial knowledge, because this is the basis of the current activity. I don't remember, four, five months ago, we sent the entire program to the Ministry of National Education. There, a team of experts has been set up to try to harmonise these things with the curriculum, with the curriculum for teaching. So we see this problem and we do it. The MEN funds generally go from the general budget of the state, so here maybe this is already included, let's say. The idea itself may be, I say, worth considering. But I don't know, we left with this initiative a while ago, it's already going on, so maybe it's connected somehow? But we see that we should put a great deal of emphasis on the financial education of society, which will reduce the risk of misselling or taking undesirable risks. Let's not kid ourselves, it doesn't reduce it to zero, it's a normal stage, that is, normally, statistically, there will always be people who have been fooled somewhere or who perhaps lacked some knowledge or experience, but we try to minimize it. Thank you very much. [[And the strategy?]] Sorry, there was a price strategy question. Yeah, I'm sorry, I missed it, 'cause I think it was during the performance. Act on insurance and reinsurance activities, I think, Article. 33, if I remember correctly, defines what is the strategy, what is the price policy of the insurance company selling insurance products - that the premium collected from the insurance product should be sufficient to pay all benefits. This is the strategy and pricing policy of insurance companies as defined in the Act already many years ago, so this is included. The introduction of additional regulations on some different levels would be an introduction, it seems to me, of overregulation and we could create greater distortions. If this level had been set otherwise, it could have risked even the bankruptcy of an insurance company. So it seems to me that this pricing policy is very well defined in the Act and works in a relatively efficient manner. Just like all over the world, that's standard. [[...after eight years, the raise was...]] We have been referring, there have been a number of parliamentary interpellations, including perhaps the Member, if I remember correctly, with regard to these OC increases. This is a complicated process that has lasted for many years, caused by the price war that was. But this has already been deregulated and the supervisor, the Financial Supervision Authority, is sensitive to such issues with insurance companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u331	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the draft law on insurance distribution to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm, based on the article. The 95b Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 24 October 2017. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Social Cooperatives Act and some other laws (print No 1779). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Krzysztof Michałkiewicz to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u332	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased to present to you a draft law amending the Act on Social Cooperatives and some other laws from print no. 1779. I would like to remind you that the Social Cooperatives Act was passed in April 2006, entered into force in July 2006 and for the 10 years that have passed, it has been well placed in Polish reality, especially in terms of social, professional rehabilitation, social inclusion, support for people at risk of social exclusion, combining business activity with social activities. The high interest in social cooperatives is best indicated by how rapidly the number of cooperatives that were formed has grown. In 2009, after 3 years of operation of the law, we had 187 cooperatives. Now, after 10 years, there are over 1600. Although social cooperatives are a difficult form of activity, although the founders of these cooperatives are people at risk of social exclusion, they have grown permanently into landscapes of especially local communities in our country. The aim of the proposed regulation is to facilitate the establishment and operation of social cooperatives. In view of the changes in the labour market, the economic situation of our country and the decline in unemployment, we believe that the founders of cooperatives and workers of cooperatives should be the most disadvantaged groups in the labour market, people with disabilities, people who are different from the labour market, and at the same time we believe that active social policies need to facilitate their return to society. The proposed changes have been prepared together with the non-governmental sector, with the Council of Public Use Activities. We also had a meeting in 2016, on the 10th anniversary of the bill, within the national forum of social cooperatives, where the assumptions of this project were widely discussed. We want the law that we are presenting to you to enter into force 3 months after the date of the announcement, and I hope that we will be able to create a framework for the functioning of social cooperatives again this year. As far as the changes we are planning are concerned, there are a lot of them because, as I mentioned, cooperatives had a number of limitations. 10 years ago, when the Social Cooperatives Act was passed, there were great fears about using this instrument for non-social purposes. Hence the different types of tightening and requirements, which often for people who should function in cooperatives, were unsurpassable. Therefore, the first change we propose is to extend the catalogue of people who can set up social cooperatives and join them as a member or a worker for social cooperatives. The second change, which is important for cooperatives, is to strengthen the role of workers of social cooperatives. Social cooperatives, on the one hand, have founders, members of cooperatives, but the cooperative is also pro-employment and, of course, the employment of people at risk of social exclusion is very important. We want employees of social cooperatives to also be involved in the process of social and professional reintegration, involved in decision-making, consultation processes, so that they can benefit from a number of rights which have so far been reserved for members of the cooperative. The third change we are introducing is to facilitate the establishment of social cooperatives. On the one hand, we reduce the number of founders from five to three, on the other hand we impose an obligation on the cooperative so that the remaining membership is completed within 12 months. On the one hand, there are fewer founders, but on the other hand, after a year of operation this number will again amount to five people, five members. We believe that for many of those we care most about, taking the risk of setting up a cooperative is too much effort, they need time to see that they are able to function, that they are able to run a social cooperative. One of the problems that reported to us in the social cooperative environment was the illustration. We want those social cooperatives which have been financed, co-financed by public funds, to be obliged to undergo the first sample within 6 months of the date of approval of the financial statements. The next change we are presenting to you is the possibility of creating a cooperative consortium. In order to strengthen the movement of social cooperatives, we want to enable cooperatives to create cooperative consortia in the form of an agreement. Regulation is important to increase the economic potential of cooperatives, but also to organise joint networks of production, trade, services, to organise joint promotion of cooperative activities, common participation in public procurement. We hope that this initiative will be used by cooperatives in order to be more powerful in the services market, including in the market for the provision of services to public entities. Cooperatives have often complained that contributions to the National Cooperative Council are too heavy a burden for them because, at the same time, the social cooperatives' revision unions were created and this contribution was often twice paid. We want social cooperatives to be exempted from contributions to the National Cooperative Council, which belong to the relevant audit relationship and already bear similar membership fees. Another facilitation in the functioning of social cooperatives is the proposed new instruments for support from the Labour Fund and the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. We want to extend these support instruments, at the same time as I said earlier, by extending the activities of cooperatives, by including new categories of socially excluded people, focusing not only on the unemployed, but also on people with disabilities and people excluded from the labour market for various reasons. One of the things that is related to the programme is to make it easier for participants in the workshops of occupational therapy, young people with disabilities to prepare for the functioning of the labour market. We want the workshop participants to be able to practice in social cooperatives, which will allow them to see whether, in fact, their work, their work activity is to be carried out, attractive to them, whether they find themselves and carry out in this type of activity. These are probably the most important changes from the point of view of the cooperative. I would very much like to ask you to support the bill and hand it over to further legislative work in the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u333	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Robert Warwas, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u334	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the government draft law amending the Social Cooperatives Act. High Izbo! Social cooperatives are a particular subject of the social economy. Their aim is to increase the chances of unemployed people at risk of being excluded from the labour market and becoming independent. It is an institution that carries out activities combining economic and social objectives. The government proposal to amend the Social Cooperatives Act redefines the activities of the cooperative and strengthens the position of its employees. The main proposals for change are to strengthen the role of workers of social cooperatives who are not members of social cooperatives, among others. through inclusion of social, professional reintegration and inclusion in decision-making and consultation processes in social cooperatives. The proposal also provides for the possibility of reimbursement of social security contributions and part of the costs of employers paid for non-member social workers. The draft law also provides for an extension of the catalogue of persons who can set up a cooperative and join a social cooperative as a member or a worker for a social cooperative. The procedated government bill makes it easier to set up social cooperatives. Predicts e.g. reducing the number of founders from five to three persons, with the obligation to supplement the membership of the cooperative to five persons within 12 months. It also facilitates the functioning of social cooperatives - new instruments of support from the Labour Fund and the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. The proposed regulation makes social cooperatives more flexible and more efficient, e.g. because of the difficulties at the beginning of their operation, by broadening the scope of support for those already in existence, by enabling cross-border support to be applied for each job created and the possibility of reimbursement of the employment costs of workers at risk of social exclusion in social cooperatives not members of cooperatives. Ladies and gentlemen! The Act also provides for support from the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities for the establishment of an economic activity within a social cooperative for the disabled and not so far - to contribute to social cooperatives and provides for financial resources for the creation of jobs in a social cooperative for the disabled. Another element is the working practices in social cooperatives for participants in occupational therapy workshops. The project provides for the possibility of pursuing unpaid apprenticeships with the employer, including in social cooperatives, by persons with disabilities implementing an individual occupational rehabilitation programme in the framework of occupational therapy workshops. The creation of a social consortium is also an important element. Regulation is important in terms of increasing the economic potential of cooperatives, joint organisation of production, trade and services networks, joint promotion of cooperative activities and joint participation in public procurement. Another element of the new law is the introduction of social cooperatives' exemption from contributions to the National Cooperative Council and the enhancement of social cooperatives, the addition to the government administration department of social protection of social economics, social entrepreneurship, including social cooperatives. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the positive effects of the proposed amendments, I propose the adoption of a government draft law amending the Social Cooperatives Act and the referral of the project to further work in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u335	Thank you. Mrs Magdalena Kochan, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u336	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Social cooperatives have a long history in Poland, but I must say that this is a story that always evolves in a good and better way for these solutions, i.e. to establish social cooperatives, direction. In 2003, it was only an option for members of KISs and CISs to set up such cooperatives, i.e. clubs and social inclusion cents, with the possibility of refunding social security contributions. The years 2004-2006 are the possibility of setting up social cooperatives by a larger catalogue of people: unemployed people who are permanently at risk of social exclusion, with the possibility of applying to the Labour Fund for the creation of seats and reimbursement of social security contributions, but only for participants in social inclusion centres. 2006 and 2009 are the years in which income tax relief from excess social reintegration has been enshrined in the law, it is the possibility of doing business and paid in the statutes, the possibility of taking part in competitions for public tasks, but only on the basis of the provisions of the Law on Public Use and Volunteering. Further amendments to the rules until 2011 are a change in the proportion of people who are permanently at risk of social exclusion and those who are not affected by these risks, from 50 to 50, i.e. 50% people at risk of social exclusion and 50% social cooperatives could have been set up without such exclusion, which was a step in the right direction, because it allowed one to learn from the other, the possibility for legal persons to set up social cooperatives, the employment of non-members, the extension of the refund of social security contributions, the regulation of public benefit activities in paid activities, the principle of public aid, and most importantly, the introduction of a social clause in public procurement. And today we have yet another good step towards facilitating the activities of this economic operator, the social economy operator, primarily by changing the number of people who can set up such a cooperative, from five to three. The catalogue of people who can establish such cooperatives has also been extended, e.g. the guardians of persons with disabilities. I think that during the committee's work I will also ask for this catalogue to be extended to include pupils who are independent from foster care, especially from institutional care. Their stay in such a cooperative will certainly make it very easy for them to start in adult life, already on a free, open labour market. It is about making the rules for membership of cooperatives more flexible and sharing the balance sheet surplus, the possibility of hiring non-members of the cooperative, while facilitating this traineeship, which must be carried out in order to become a member of the social cooperative. A number of financial facilities have been introduced: the possibility of reimbursement of social security contributions for non-members of the cooperative, the possibility of financing for job creation, exemption from fees, e.g. membership of the National Cooperative Council, at the same time as the control mechanism. Well, every social cooperative after the first six months of its activity must be judged - and this is a good step, in the right direction. I believe that these illustrations will be regarded as supporting the activities of such a social cooperative, not as supervision, which is intended to serve its closure. I think that in the first six months such support will be very useful for any cooperative. As regards the possibility of using a shortcut, the members of the cooperative explain to us that the name "social cooperative" is often not the best combination, so they ask for the possibility to use a shortcut. And rightly, why do we have [[♪ The bell ♪]] Make it harder for them? We propose that this draft law be directed to further work in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u337	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Szczaj, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u338	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour of presenting my position on behalf of the Kukiz club15 in relation to the procedated act on social cooperatives. Social cooperatives are social enterprises which have been established in Poland since 2003 and successfully activate people who have the most difficult in the labour market. Social economy is a relatively young field, a branch of social policy in Poland. However, these companies are growing so fast, they are prospering so well, so quickly and effectively they are returning to the labour market that it can be said that their development is simply necessary. Social economics, including social cooperatives, are economic operators who compete in the open labour market and, at the same time, have something very important, because it is a social mission. When the first act on social cooperatives was created, when the first social cooperatives started to be formed, I remember such critical voices that flowed and from some politicians and from entrepreneurs, that these entities would primarily spoil the local market, that they would threaten local competition. Now, years later, we know that this has not happened, and nothing has happened, that cooperatives fill a very important gap in local markets that they do not want to fill with other companies, and yet they do a lot of good: they give jobs to disabled people, women who return after long breaks, maternity leave, give jobs to homeless people with low qualifications. The profits are allocated to various local and social initiatives, to the development of their employees. People who have been given the opportunity and created the conditions to work, can work, pay taxes, are very active, can run their own businesses. Thanks to social cooperatives, social economic operators cease to be at a cost and, finally, they are a very good investment. We do not pay them for years of benefits, we do not watch them become helpless and become increasingly addicted to the state, but we do cause them to be very active and able to thrive. I could talk about these good solutions for years, but I will allow myself to have a private digression, because I myself have run such a cooperative and I know very well how many people it has given jobs, as it has allowed for many years to develop, and especially for people with disabilities. Of course, the Act on these cooperatives introduces a great deal of important changes and regulations that facilitate their functioning, especially competition in the open market. What I would like to stress and for which I would like to thank the Minister: indeed, this law has been very well examined and implemented, since there has indeed been a very broad consultation, it has been consulted with those directly concerned. For this I want to thank you because it really changes a lot and facilitates the functioning of these entities. Much has been mentioned here, it is about ensuring that workers who are not yet members, but who are about to become owners of this cooperative, co-owners, can participate in the decision-making process at the very beginning. The project also includes facilitations for the establishment of social cooperatives. Once five people could start a social cooperative, at least five people. At the moment, after the amendment of the law, it may be three people, two people will be able to come later and will be complementary. This provision was motivated by the fact that it is indeed difficult to set up a company in five people and it is difficult to maintain such a way of managing with people who, for example, they didn't have any work experience at all or in group work. In addition, the mandatory name of the social cooperative was relaxed. Indeed, from a marketing point of view, i.e. that the cooperative was to operate on the market and be competitive, it was quite disturbing. In addition, the catalogue of persons who may have been employed in cooperatives has been extended. It should be pointed out here that it has just been possible to employ and establish cooperatives for the care of people with disabilities. I just want to draw your attention to one thing, Minister. A provision that precisely defines the possibility of hiring carers for disabled persons, precisely Article. 4, defines a group of carers based on Article. 49 point 7 of the Employment Promotion Act and the Employment Market Institutions. This article unfortunately eliminates carers who are employed on the basis of civil law contracts and are looking for a better, permanent job. When dealing with a complex case, it is worth improving this article. Paragraph 49 (7) by deleting the record of non-performance of other work. I may not be able to make an amendment in this respect during the work of the committee, because this amendment concerns another law that will be prosecuted, but if we really want to think about those who are employed under civil law contracts, who are carers who are really looking for a permanent job, it would be useful to delete this provision in order to enable them to function fully also within this law. To conclude, I'd like to say that the club, of course. it will support this law because it is going in a very good direction, it allows social cooperatives to compete better and operate in the open market. It is a good combination of job and business protection, which should be a promoted direction in restoring to the labour market groups of people who have really moved away from this market for various reasons. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Of course, we all agree that action based on the fact that we give people a fishing rod, not a fish, and we still help organize the fishery, is a good action. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u339	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u340	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the Government's draft law amending the Social Cooperatives Act and some other laws contained in print no. 1779. High Izbo! Social cooperatives are organisations that combine the characteristics of entrepreneurship and the non-governmental sector. Their activity focuses on the activation and reintegration of both professional and social excluded persons. They are, as is also stated in the explanatory memorandum, one of the key players in the social economy and an important instrument of social policy. This extremely important task was achieved in 2006 by a separate regulation, just the Social Cooperatives Act. About 1000 entities are active under this law, while 1,400 entities were registered in 2016. Of course, there is a difference between those that are active and those that are registered. In more than 10 years' history, this law was revised and adapted to the requested needs. And the bill submitted to the High House is another such amendment. It contains a number of changes which, according to the justification presented, should improve the working conditions of cooperatives, increase their sustainability and support them in the initial phase of their activities. These are, of course, very important objectives. It is not possible to refer in this formula, in the formula of such a speech, to the whole of this law or to concrete proposals, therefore, as far as possible, but I will signal things that seem important somewhere there for various reasons. After examining this project, it can be said that most of the changes proposed by the government on social cooperatives are going in the right direction, such as the demands and comments made by the sector, by those involved, and that this project clarifies certain aspects relevant to the functioning of the cooperative. Among the proposed changes it draws attention to e.g. clarification of the area of operation of cooperatives by indicating that cooperatives work for social and professional reintegration not only of members of cooperatives but also of non-members of workers and those of a group of people at risk of social exclusion. This change is, of course, affecting the nature of the cooperative's operation. In their area of activity, they must take into account the objective of activation and integration, both professional and social, more broadly, by referring not only to members. That's what this recipe is about. Moreover, as is also justified, the inclusion of workers in the specific rights of members can prepare them to become members of the cooperative, and this is an absolutely desirable direction. The project also proposes limits for members of cooperatives not included in those at risk of social exclusion. This raises some doubts, although, as I understand it, these are expectations of the legislator and this is justified in practice. However, the proposal to reduce the number of founders of social cooperatives from five to three already requires a deeper analysis. Although the project provides for a period of 12 months to supplement the number of members or the employment of employees, the main question here, of course, is the cooperative formula as such. The proposal also provides for the possibility of becoming a member of the cooperative before the end of 12 months, of course if the statutes provide for this possibility. It's a cooperative right, and it's a good thing that cooperatives can decide on important matters themselves. The draft contains a proposal to repeal the paragraph. Article 3 5a. This is perhaps one of the first provisions proposed by the Law and Justice, which provides for support for such, I would say, natural entrepreneurship of Poles. As a result of this change, a member or employee who has set up another social cooperative or has joined such a cooperative or has entered into any activity, employment, will not have to leave the existing cooperative in the event of taking up this additional job. Of course, we welcome this because it comes out, I would say, against the rational expectations of those who function in these cooperatives. In addition, the project introduces changes to improve the transparency of management, including the obligation to establish such specific communication on the board line - staff. This, of course, is not a cure for problems, as experience with other such bodies shows, but will positively affect the identification of workers with the objectives and situation of cooperatives. We also welcome the possibility in these provisions of creating a cooperative consortium in the form of an agreement - it is, of course, functioning there, but [[♪ The bell ♪]] the legal basis is important - the possibility to reimburse insurance contributions or to make the rules on the distribution of the surplus more flexible. These are things that are definitely going in the right direction...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u341	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u342	...with this in mind, the Posel Club Modern requests that the project be submitted to the committees for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u343	Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 2 minutes. The first question is asked by Mr Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform. Is Mr Bańkowski here? There isn't. Mr Antoni Duda, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u344	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I was pleased to hear from the Minister that there are currently around 1500 social cooperatives, as you said. As a longtime director of the county labour office, I had experience with the organization of social cooperatives and, I don't know, maybe I had bad luck, my experiences weren't very good. The restrictions on membership, employment, the scope of these cooperatives' activities mean that there are not so many really well-functioning cooperatives. Some of them didn't last long, a lot of them struggled with a lot of problems. The introduction of changes in this area therefore appears to give hope that all of this can change, all the more so as the implementation of the idea of social cooperatives, i.e. The reintegration of people at risk of social exclusion into society, including the labour market, is a social responsibility. And the question, I hope, rhetorical: Will the proposed numerous amendments to the Social Cooperatives Act make a positive difference to this situation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u345	Thank you very much. Katarzyna Czochara, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u346	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Social cooperatives are a very important pillar in the social economy. What is the main purpose of these social cooperatives, I do not need to explain here to the High House. The government's draft amendment to the Social Cooperatives Act redefines the activities of the cooperative and strengthens the position of its employees. Minister, I have questions about this. What government bill on social cooperatives makes it easier to set up social cooperatives? What will be the facilitations in the functioning of social cooperatives? Are there any risks in the context of the changes being made? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u347	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Andrzej Gawron, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u348	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Social cooperatives are an excellent way to activate, integrate excluded people, those who have difficulties in the labour market. 10 years of operation of cooperatives is a very good time to make a study, to choose solutions that will help to make these cooperatives work even better. Unfortunately, I have similar experience as my previous speaker, Mr Duda. Indeed, the difficulties of establishing, later running these cooperatives, caused that potential not to be exploited. Practically in my district, in Lublin, every year funds were spent on the operation of cooperatives, and unfortunately these funds were not used. I even inspired certain groups of people to use these resources. Unfortunately, tightenings, certain conditions led to the fact that these cooperatives were not formed. If these facilitations in practice result in more cooperatives being created, this will be a very good solution. I have only one reservation: whether this law or, say, the Ministry plans to support these cooperatives, especially during this first period of operation, for example through business advice. The idea is, however, to support these cooperatives in action if they are in some kind of trouble. And one more question. Does the Ministry provide for an information campaign so that information about these facilitations, about how these cooperatives can function better, can reach the widest possible number of people? Finally, Minister. Maybe you have statistics on how many cooperatives have been created, how many have fallen, because I think there's this picture? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u349	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Warwas, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u350	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The proposal for a law amending the Social Cooperatives Act introduces a number of facilitations in the establishment and functioning of social cooperatives. It will eliminate barriers that hinder social cooperatives' activities, particularly in terms of increasing the sustainability of social cooperatives at the beginning of their operation. Therefore, Minister, I ask you very much to know whether there have been surveys on what the main problems have been in the current legal situation, which have led to the liquidation of the social cooperatives created, because we have heard a lot about this, and what solutions have been put in place in the current bill in order to prevent and create a better chance of surviving social cooperatives. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u351	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u352	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Many times there have been people in my office who set up or run social cooperatives. They drew attention to a number of provisions in the current law which block certain activities, and this is important for the functioning of such cooperatives and their finances. Most of all acts are e.g. created for the model of social cooperatives of natural persons. However, cooperatives may also be appointed by legal persons. Therefore, these legal entities e.g. they could not, in the majority of cases, apply to the labour offices for reimbursement of the costs incurred for the employment of workers. Such a procedure shall be laid down for cooperatives created by natural persons. My question is: Does this amendment solve this problem? If not, I would ask you to include these comments in the content of the implementing acts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u353	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u354	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have these questions. Firstly, what are the planned costs associated with the adoption of this law? In this respect, do the State foresee an increase in costs on the budgetary side as well, and on the other hand, do you estimate that there may be some increase in costs on the part of the cooperative in relation to the adaptation to the rules that are designed? And the other thing. One of my previous speakers has already asked about the statistics. I would also like to ask if the resort has any statistics on the activity, the subject matter of activity, how they arise or fall, how many of them work, for sure, how much is suspended. If so, I would ask for such information. I would also ask for such information in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u355	Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u356	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We need a rewrite. My question is two things. The first is related to the person of attorney. This question has already been raised or a very important amendment has been formulated. It was mentioned that, in general, the caretaker was unable to get involved immediately, break up with his work to start a cooperative and work in it. This is why the provision in question is necessary. Or maybe we should write it down. Is that an alternative? It's the first thing. Second thing. I think that the provision that three people can set up a social cooperative is easy, but maybe it should still be considered, because the point is not to set up a cooperative, but to make it work. And I'm sure you have some insight into what the people who have failed to do and had to shut down, shut down the cooperatives are saying in particular. There was no counseling. Firstly, they did not sufficiently examine the market, whether this cooperative was justified in a given place, because they did not even know that this had to be done. They couldn't prepare a business plan, etc., etc. You could multiply the needs or the shortcomings that caused the project to fail. So does the bill - because I didn't find it - solve these problems? Otherwise, the fact that there will be only three people can become a cause - hopefully not - even more disappointments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u357	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Krzysztof Michałkiewicz, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u358	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank you for the debate, for your interest in social cooperatives and the changes we are proposing, and for the fact that your questions have touched on such important issues. Of course, I'll at least try to answer most of it, hopefully I can. As far as Mr Duda is concerned, of course The amendment is because there are actually a lot of cooperatives, we hope that about one third, 30% of these 1600s do not work. However, although they are difficult to assume, they are difficult to drive, and in many cases it ends in failure for those who are rather accustomed to failure and regret that they have to live through it again, they decide to set them up. The fact that these cooperatives are arising is the best example of the fact that the demand not to benefit from social assistance, only to actually take matters into my own hands, in quotes, in any case to actually return to activity, to return to society, to make an effort to integrate or to become independent, is worth emphasising. Will the facilitations that will be included in the bill be sufficient? Of course, from the beginning, and here you said it, many people thought that too much facilitation and too much support for social cooperatives were spoiling the market, so these records were very difficult at first. Slowly as we observe, monitor how these cooperatives operate, we try to make it easier, that is the next step. We hope that they will facilitate the functioning of cooperatives, and that they will be sufficient, we will see. Here, too, I would like to say that this law of 2006 included monitoring what is happening to cooperatives. Every 2 years we prepare a report on the functioning of cooperatives, it is quite extensive, the last one, if I remember correctly, in 20142015, of course, the Member can find them easily, but there were also surveys carried out by the University of Warsaw in 2014, which brought a lot of information. We will try to prepare a package of information for you. Making it easier to assume, to operate - it is the country that sees and hears more or less. Of course, first of all, we come down from the number of founders. Someone spoke nicely here, Mrs Prosecute, that often the number of five for those who have not worked all years, who have no experience in cooperation, in teamwork, was often difficult, so we go down to three. We are giving other people the chance to see that this is an opportunity to function and take responsibility for these matters. And they're gonna have to complete this squad, but we want to get down from five to three people. It is also easier to say that, when it comes to excluded persons, we go down to 30% in service cooperatives and to 30% in cooperatives for people with moderate and significant disabilities. It is about participating in the cooperative of those excluded persons. As far as other facilitations are concerned, you know that, as part of various facilitations, we also finance the wage costs of the Labour Fund, there is a subsidy to create a job from the Labour Fund. With regard to what Mr Kochan said, it is very important - this aid is, on the one hand, an illustration, and I thank Mrs Kochan, who mentioned how important it is to have a feedback from the illustrator, which will show what needs to be improved, what needs to be improved. On the other hand, I will also remind you that there are considerable European resources to support social economy, including social cooperatives, in social economy support centres. There is a whole programme, on the one hand forcing the OWES to provide an adequate level of advisory services, business advisory services, very concrete ones, on the other hand, these social economy support centres have really great opportunities in helping to create cooperatives, create jobs, and operate social cooperatives. We believe that this is a period that must be used to the fullest extent for the development of social cooperatives. The main problems of social cooperatives - there are a lot of them, in this report they are mentioned: for what reasons cooperatives fail, for which they cease their activities. We try to monitor it, not all cooperatives respond to our surveys. The examination of the University of Warsaw was more profound, so there was more information there, in the reports that we present to you, often not all cooperatives respond to the surveys, but it certainly shows some directions, and this also, in addition to consulting the social cooperatives' environment, made it easier for us to work on amending the law. There were two interesting things that we will, of course, hopefully be able to discuss as part of the work in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. I'm thinking about those people with disabilities. As you know, the bill was consulted not only with the social cooperative community, but also in internal consultations in our department, was in inter-ministerial consultations, passed through the Standing Committee or through the government and the records we see here, of course they are a form of compromise. Speaking of these guardians, Mrs Szczaj rightly pointed out that these are provisions that are already in the legal system in terms of facilitating and supporting these types of people, in the Employment Promotion Act and the Labour Market Institutions. They can't stray too far from those records that are. On the other hand, we had a similar problem, as you said, during the very discussions that we had with the Department of the Fund, which deals with the Labour Fund, with the Minister of Sweden, we used similar arguments as that of the Member. So the subject is important. Maybe we can improve this record a little bit while we continue to process it. If not, we will wait for the next amendment. As regards the facilitation of legal persons and the support from the labour office, I also hope that during the discussion in the committee there will be an opportunity to discuss this. So much so, I tried to answer the most important questions. Once again, I would like to stress that, and I would like to thank you for the fact that all the clubs supported the further process of this project. I would like to thank not only on my behalf, but also on behalf of social cooperatives, because for them these records and this amendment are really important. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u359	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u360	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Social cooperatives are a specific form of labour cooperatives. At least half of its members must be at risk of social exclusion. At the same time, it is subject to precise rules on the number of members or the scope of activities. There is no doubt that it is a specific form, but it can be said that it is a special form that requires support. The law proposed by the applicants aims to introduce further facilitations in the establishment and functioning of social cooperatives, to extend the catalogue of persons who may establish such cooperatives, to carers of persons with disabilities who do not receive benefits. In the legislation we see a change in the number of people who can start a cooperative - it is conditionally reduced from five to three. At the same time, the novel extends the scope of support - the cooperative's support received can also cover the costs of legal assistance, consultation and advice related to the establishment of an economic activity within a social cooperative and, additional resources, for the creation of a job. As a result of the proposed changes, social cooperatives will be able to apply for funds to finance wage costs for an unemployed or employed disabled or jobseeker who is not in employment until the age of 30 and at the age of 50. We positively assess the possibility for collaborators to raise funds for the establishment of cooperatives not only from PFRON, but also from other institutions. This concerns the possibility of applying in PFRON for measures to engage in economic activities within social cooperatives, as well as the creation of jobs in social cooperatives for unemployed and job seekers who are both disabled. It will also make it very easy to raise funds to finance salary costs for an unemployed or job-seeking person who is also disabled. The objectives of the social cooperative, which is intended to promote the reintegration of not only members of cooperatives but also workers at risk of exclusion, have also been clarified. This is intended to strengthen social and professional reintegration of people from groups exposed to social exclusion who work in social cooperatives and who are not members of them. The proposed provisions also provide for the possibility of reimbursement of social security contributions and part of the employer's costs paid for employees of non-member social cooperatives, but at the same time those at risk of social exclusion. We consider these changes to be changes in the right direction, which is why the PSL club will be in favour of further work on the project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u361	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the government proposal for a law amending the Social Cooperatives Act and some other laws. Social cooperatives are one of the key players in the social economy. They are an important instrument of social policy in the field of activity and social inclusion. The revised rules aim to increase the sustainability of social cooperatives by making their operations in the first phase more flexible and more efficient. Clarification of the area of activity of social cooperatives will affect the ability to fully achieve the fundamental objective of the cooperative, namely social and professional reintegration of people at risk of social exclusion, not only of members of the cooperative, but also of non-members. The amended bill extends the catalogue of people who can set up social cooperatives and join them as a member or person who provides work for cooperatives, looking for jobs that do not remain in employment or who do not have a job as carers of persons with disabilities. It is a great solution to increase the employability of people who are particularly difficult to find work taking into account their limited time opportunities. The condition which allows for the setting up of cooperatives by persons outside the catalogue is among others. the implementation of social assistance tasks and services, support for people with disabilities, the running of kindergartens and other forms of pre-school education. The new objective of social cooperatives will be to meet the needs of the population in accessing socially useful services. The bill provides for the facilitation of the establishment of a social cooperative by reducing the number of persons required to establish it from five to three, under the condition that it is mandatory for members to be included, within 12 months of the date of entry into the National Court Register, of at least two persons at risk of social exclusion. The proposed solution will eliminate barriers when completing the founding composition. If a cooperative is established by people with moderate or significant disability, the limit for persons outside the catalogue of people at risk of social exclusion will not be 50%. , but 70%. The proposed changes make it more flexible for people not at risk of social exclusion to acquire social cooperatives by eliminating the need for specific qualifications. At the same time, the draft law allows the reimbursement of social security contributions and part of the costs incurred by the employer for members, as well as for employees of non-member cooperatives. The regulations introduced will facilitate the establishment of social cooperatives, which are an important instrument of active social policy aimed primarily at professional activation. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceding the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u362	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law on the amendment of the Social Cooperatives Act and certain other laws, contained in print No 1779, to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min. 45 hrs. 17 min 50]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the application of private prosecutors: Mariusz Witczak, Jan Grabc and Marcin Kierwiński of 7 March 2017 to the Sejm's consent to the criminal liability of Mr Bartosz Kownacki (print No 1709). I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u363	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the report of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the application of private prosecutors: Mariusz Witczak, Jan Grabc and Marcin Kierwiński of 7 March 2017 to allow the Sejm to hold Mr Bartosz Kownacki criminally liable. Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 7c paragraph. 1b of the Act of 9 May 1996 on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator, addressed on 30 May 2017 the above request to the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee for consideration. The Commission, having examined this request at its meeting on 5 July 2017, pursuant to Article. 7c paragraph. The 5th Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator presents to the High House a proposal to reject the application of private prosecutors: Mariusz Witczak, Jan Grabc and Marcin Kierwiński of 7 March 2017 for the consent of the Sejm to the criminal liability of Mr Bartosz Kownacki. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u364	Thank you very much. I remind you that the Sejm, according to the article. Article 133 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall examine the committee's report by listening only to the rapporteur. The Member concerned shall also have the right to speak. This report shall not be discussed. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Environmental Law (Prints No. 1737 and 1822). I ask Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u365	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate of the Republic of Poland at its meeting on 15 July 2017 examined the Act amending the Environmental Law Act and adopted three amendments to this Act. By adopting Amendment 1, the Senate considered it reasonable to grant environmental and water management funds, hereinafter referred to as the voivodship funds, at the statutory level, the competence to determine the organisation of the internal offices of the voivodship funds, so that there is no doubt as to the competence to regulate the above mentioned. issues as well as the body to which they are entitled. In addition, the amendment introduces a mandate for the Minister responsible for the environment to define by regulation the detailed mode of action of the regional authorities of the funds and the way in which powers are given in order to harmonise these regulations and to ensure the smooth operation and proper performance of the voivodship funds, bearing in mind that in practice these issues have been regulated differently in the statutes of the various voivodship funds. The proposed amendment will also lead to the absence of the need to adopt statutes by the voivodship funds. Amendment 3 aims to maintain the statutes of the voivodship funds allocated by the voivodships until the entry into force of the above-mentioned Regulation of the Minister for the Environment. At the same time, a provision was proposed allowing the Minister to issue this regulation within one month of the entry into force of the amendment. Article 4 is replaced by the following: The proposed amendment 2 seeks to regulate the situation in which, until the entry into force of the law, the Regional Supervisory Board of the Fund has failed to fulfil its obligation under Article. 3 (1) (a) 4 of the Act of 7 April 2017 amending the Act on Environmental Protection, i.e. within 14 days of its appointment, it did not address a request to the Management Board of the voivodship for the appointment of members of the Management Board of the voivodship fund. The proposed regulation provides for the voivodeship to be given competence to submit proposals for the appointment of members of the management board of the voivodship fund to the management board of the voivodship agreed with the minister responsible for the environment within 7 days of the entry into force of the Act. If in such a situation the management board of the voivodship does not appoint a member of the management board of the voivodship fund, the appointment shall be carried out by the voivodship. The amendment also regulates the consequences of the failure by the voivodship board to make available Article. 3 (1) (a) The Board of Directors shall have the power to appoint the members of the Management Board. In order to avoid doubting the consequences of the appointment of members of the Management Board of the Regional Fund in the above mentioned. the way it is proposed to add a regulation whereby these appointments are equivalent to the expiry of the mandate of the members of the existing Management Board. The same rule will apply to the vocations made pursuant to Article. 400 lips. 2a Act Environmental Law until the date of entry into force of the Act under consideration. At the same time, a provision was introduced to clarify clearly the effect of the expiry of the mandates of the current members of the Management Board of the Regional Fund from the point of view of the Labour Code. Ladies and gentlemen, Marshal of the Sejm, in accordance with Art. 54 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry. The Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, after considering this resolution at its meeting on 13 September 2017, recommends that the High House adopt the three amendments tabled by the Senate during the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u366	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements and the names of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Małgorzata Golińska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u367	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the opinion of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the position of the Senate in print no. 1737 on the Act adopted by the Sejm amending the Environmental Law Act. The Senate, proposing three amendments, considered it appropriate to harmonise the regulations in order to ensure the smooth operation of voivodship environmental and water management funds and the proper implementation of their tasks. He proposed that the management boards of these funds be given competence to determine the internal organisation of their offices. He introduced a mandate for the Minister responsible for the environment to determine the mode of action of the regional authorities of the funds and the way in which powers are given. At the same time, he proposed to regulate the situation in which the supervisory board of the voivodship fund would not fulfil its obligation to refer to the management board of the voivodship a request for the appointment of members of the management board of the fund. The proposed regulation provides for the competence of the voivodship to be granted in this situation so that it can submit proposals for the appointment of members of the management board of the voivodship fund to the management board of the voivodship agreed with the minister responsible for environmental matters. Where the Management Board of the Members Voivodship does not appoint, the appointment shall be made by the Voivode. Club Law and Justice in connection with activities undertaken in certain local governments of voivodships maintains the need to amend the provisions of the Environmental Law Act, and I would like to remind you that these actions of many local governments aim to agree on such provisions that will prevent any changes and paralyze the functioning of the voivodship funds. We therefore declare our support for the Senate's amendments, recognising them as the amendments needed to correct the current situation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u368	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Suski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u369	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Environmental law, which is now being amended, is amended for the second time. Law and Justice at the first amendment created a staff law to name the management boards of voivodship environmental funds. It turned out that the amendment was a legal issue that had to be corrected. This amendment brought back many uninteresting regulations that the Senate had begun to improve. It turned out, and rightly so, that the senators are probably a little smarter than the Members because they reduced this job increase in voivodship environmental funds. On the other hand, as it turned out during the process in the environmental committee, the Legislative Office questioned completely the constitutionality of the three amendments which the Senate had tabled for the procedure. High Izbo! I am not surprised that this is another amendment not fulfilling the basic principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. In addition, during the meeting, the rapporteur immediately referred us to the Constitutional Court, us or those directly concerned, who, if they felt they had such a need, should challenge this law to the Constitutional Court. I think this is an amendment that once again confirms what law and justice is the master in creating chaos. Besides, your guy is a genius in chaos management. Incidentally, I don't know how you Members stand it. [[Come on over.]] Although it's irrelevant, because it's your choice. I'm just wondering how long it's gonna last for Poland. Thank you very much. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u370	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of the club... I can see we've got a change. Not Mrs Ewa Lieder, but Mr Paweł Kobyliński, a modern club. The same point, so that, sir, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u371	Thank you. I see I have very little time, because I only have 30 seconds. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, it is necessary to reflect again not only on the substance of this law but, above all, on the quality of lawmaking. I appeal to the majority of the government, the majority of Parliament, not to go with these laws, so to speak, to rhyme, but to do something, do it right. These three amendments, yes, they are unconstitutional. This has already been emphasised by the Office of Sejm Analysis, and it is therefore difficult to refer to them. Ladies and gentlemen! If you're doing something, think about it. This is our country, this is our right. Later, citizens must exercise this right and be submissive to it, and if you adopt it sloppyly, then later it will be sloppyly exercised. It's our country too. Think about it. A little reflection. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u372	Thank you very much. As regards the club of the Polish People's Party and near Free and Solidarnia, speeches were made in writing. So I'm closing the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u373	On behalf of the PSL Parliamentary Club, I would like to present the position of the club on the parliamentary draft law amending the Environmental Law, prints no. 1737 and 1822. Another amendment of the Environmental Law is another emergence of intellectual incompetence in lawmaking, a law whose sole and exclusive purpose is to deprive local governments of the impact on the functioning of voivodship funds for environmental protection and water management. This is the simplification of law according to the PiS, contrary to its own 2014 programme, which assumed to reduce the legislative runoff. As a result of these procedures, we receive voivodship funds for environmental protection and water management, in which the local government only exists in the name of this local government legal person, because such a model of facade self-government is the target model for the management of the state according to the governing party. This amendment to the Environmental Law is another bad change dictated by the vision of centralisation and the limitation of self-government competence. Under the cloak of concern for public finances and savings, further jobs are created for forestry daughters.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u374	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Environmental Law. The aim of the bill is to clarify the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act as regards the appointment and competence of the authorities of voivodship environmental funds. The Senate adopted amendments to the bill during the meeting. They've all been approved by the committee. According to the first amendment, the management boards of the voivodship funds for environmental protection and water management have been given competence to determine the organisation of the internal offices of the voivodship funds. At the same time, the Minister left himself the right to clarify the way in which the bodies of the Funds operate. This record, in my opinion, will prevent the creation of different statutes for organizations in different voivodships. In turn, another amendment clearly sets out the rules for the appointment of members of the Management Board of the Regional Fund and the rules for the termination of the mandates of existing members of the Management Board. This clarification in the Senate amendments makes it clear that there will be no doubt in the implementation of the amendment to the Act. Around the Free and Solidarni, he agrees with the committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u375	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We have another point, but there is no representative of the Ministry, so I'm announcing a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 mins 03 hours 18 min 05]] Ladies and gentlemen, we're good to go. We have a representative of the Council of Ministers. We proceed with the examination of item 31 of the agenda: The document presented by the President of the Council of Ministers:.Information on the implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones. As of 31 December 2016 (Print No 1589) together with the position of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development (Print No 1622). So I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Mrs Jadwiga Emilewicz, to present this information. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u376	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Excuse me for making you take a break. I am already answering the question about the state of implementation of the Special Economic Zones Act. I will report on the last day of last year, 31 December 2016. This information, which I would like to convey to you, covers issues such as the location and level of development of each of the 14 zones, the effects of these zones taking into account the number of permits granted, the jobs created, the value and the industry structure of the investments made and the country of origin of capital, as well as information on the activities of companies managing zones. Last year, 12 of the 14 zones were affected by changes in the boundaries of the zones. The total area has increased by more than 1.5 thousand. ha, i.e. To the level of almost 21.5 thousand. ha. In an area of more than 500 ha 41 investment projects will be located, where the average level of zoning in total, whole areas, amounted to almost 60% and ranged from 26% in the Legnica Special Economic Zone to over 74% in the Łódź Special Economic Zone. At the end of last year, entrepreneurs had over 2200 valid permits to operate in the zones, and in 2016 257 permits were issued: from the smallest, from three - in the Kamienna Góra and Starachowice zone, to 40 - in the Mielec zone. Compared to the previous year, the number of licences issued increased by 18%. The accumulated value of invested capital since the beginning of the zones amounted to nearly PLN 112 billion, i.e. growth by more than 570 million compared to 2015, i.e. an increase of 0.5%. In 2016, in terms of the cumulative value of the investment, the largest one was the Wałbrzych zone - more than 21% whole, Łódź - 14% , Katowice - more than 12% , the smallest, but still the scored growth - the pole zone. Investors in all these zones employed over 300,000. people, from 4,000. in the post zone up to almost 60,000. in the Katowice zone. Compared to the previous year, employment increased by more than 6%. That's over 20,000. jobs. As regards the structure of the investment according to the country of origin - it is a question of participation in the total capital - it is so that almost 21% are Polish, foreign companies - more than 80%. Germany remains a foreign leader, followed by the Netherlands, the United States, Belgium and Italy. The industrial structure of the investment has also not changed significantly compared to the previous year. The largest share of accumulated investments was by companies from the automotive industry. Next are rubber products, plastics and finally metal products. According to data provided by the Ministry of Finance, the total amount of public aid granted to enterprises operating in zones by the end of 2015 amounted to just over PLN 19 billion. This represents around 17% the investment expenditure incurred by entrepreneurs by the end of 2015 and this balance remains favourable to the state budget. In 2016, little more than PLN 300 million was spent on the construction of infrastructure in the area of zones, and the expenditure of management companies amounted to almost PLN 118 million. The remainder of the expenditure was borne by municipalities, media gestors and the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways. The total amount of tax exemption of companies managing zones since the start of operation amounted to almost PLN 260 million and in 2016 alone. - almost 18 million and was higher by 4 million compared to the previous one, 2015. The highest profit was achieved by the Katowice Special Economic Zone, the Industrial Development Agency Branch in Tarnobrzeg - it is worth recalling that two zones are managed by the Industrial Development Agency and Tarnobrzeska is one of them - and Suwałska Special Economic Zone. And that's a very positive surprise when it comes to the last entity that hasn't recorded such profits in years. These profits are hesitant... In the case of the Katowice zone it is over 20 million, in the case of Suwałska - up to 7.5 million. None of the companies recorded a negative financial result. And this is also a positive, positive change from last year, where in the case of three zones we had a negative financial result. Zone management companies are involved in the creation of new clusters, participate in the work supporting cooperation within existing clusters. Last year, for example. in the Katowice zone began the process of dual studies. The Tarnobrzeg Special Zone has been a member of the automotive cluster since January and a patronage class was launched in Wałbrzych in the Centre for Vocational and Continuing Training in Shooting. So, in conclusion, last year was very good for the zones. First of all, last year the enlargement processes started in the worst case 3 years earlier were completed. They successfully answered the questions to investors, so that they could be allowed to operate in the zone. As far as positive developments are concerned, which is worth noting, the process of examining applications has been shortened since on average, as we have analysed, it lasted 24 months. This time has been reduced to 6 months. What is more, it has been launched, in parallel to the possibility of observing the legislative process, how it is progressing, that it is transparent, so that you can see at what stage the legislative process is at... Similarly, everyone can also see at the moment where, at which stage the process of granting zone permits is being examined. As I say, the duration of this process has been reduced to six months. This is related to the policy implemented in the Ministry of Development in a transparent manner, with the implementation of the so-called model. one-stop shop. Investors who are interested in investing in Poland, not only in special economic zones, get rapid information in this one-stop shop and then are carried out by the process very quickly, if of course it is complete and complete documentation. If she's not here, they're getting quick feedback. So that, as I am saying, the duration of this process has been reduced to 6 months, hence these results, both in terms of enlargement, planned investment value and planned increased number of jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u377	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, the representative of the committee is currently absent. He will present this report to us a little later. We'll start with the discussion. The statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles will be five minutes. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Wojciech Zubowski to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u378	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I will refer to information on the implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones, as of 31 December 2016, information contained in print No 1589. This information was presented at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development. Let me mention at least some of the points discussed at the time, some of which were also quoted by the Minister. Statistics show that 12 special economic zones changed borders in 2016. The total area has increased by more than 1.5 thousand. ha. There's more than 500 ha left in the area. about 41 investment projects completed. In 2016, the average level of zoning was almost 60% and this is a constant resulting, among others. the fact that some of the areas in the zones are not suitable for use as intended at the beginning. In 2016, entrepreneurs owned more than 2.3 thousand. important business permits, and the total value of the material invested in zones amounted to almost PLN 113 billion. The largest share of accumulated investment value took place in the zones: Wałbrzych, Łódź and Katowice, and the lowest in the column, which is one of the smallest in terms of surface area. At the end of last year, investors employed over 330 thousand. persons. Over the course of the year there has been an increase in employment by more than 6.5%. If we look at the structure of zone companies, it shows that about 21% are Polish companies and the rest are foreign companies, mainly German, then Dutch, American and Belgian or Italian companies. The largest companies are in the automotive industry, then there are manufacturers of rubber, plastics and metal products. The whole structure is arranged into clusters, where first we have a technological and industrial leader in each zone and supply companies from subsuppliers. The management companies spent just over PLN 300 million on the construction of infrastructure in zone areas, i.e. 150 million PLN less than in 2015. The total tax exemption of companies managing zones from the start of operation until the end of 2016 amounted to 260 million. The zones that achieved the highest profit, and here the size of the area is significant, are the Katowice Special Economic Zone, then the Industrial Development Agency Branch in Tarnobrzeg and Suwałska Special Economic Zone. All companies recorded a positive financial result. High Izbo! A wider discussion on the state and future of the zones was held at a committee meeting, where all questions were answered. Today, as in previous years, I am applying for the adoption of the information presented by the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u379	You're welcome. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u380	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to make a statement on the activities of special economic zones in 2016, seym prints No 1589 and 1622. High Izbo, zones operate in Poland for more than 20 years and fundamentally changed the landscape of the Polish economy. Today, it is difficult to imagine an economy without special economic zones. Several examples of their effect. At the end of 2016, the accumulated value of the invested capital amounted to PLN 112 billion. 332 thousand were created. jobs, more than 2263 permits were issued or exactly so. Zones operate in 14 regions. With these 21,000 zones. ha manages 14 companies. Dominating industries, as we have already talked about, are automotive, chemistry and the food industry. 72% capital comes from six countries: Germany, Poland, the Netherlands, the USA, Belgium and Italy. The main objectives of economic zones' activities in this first purpose were to eliminate structural unemployment, as well as to attract foreign capital to Poland in the era of globalisation. You can and even need to update the operating rules of zones, change the criteria, because indeed economic activity does not tolerate vacuum, it is constantly changing. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2015, we gave you the well-growing zones, Minister Emilewicz emphasized this, except for a few exceptions. I want to refer to what's been done over the last two years. Unfortunately, I'm very disappointed with what you've done over the last two years. First of all, it's staff. You listed a majority without one president, which you couldn't name, because this is where the agency is headed. Before your vacation, you left only one president in these 14 zones. Which is basically how it happens after this nasty shift, because that's what I call it. You're still announcing a new bill. You announce and announce. We know what the most unfavorable investment is in the economy: uncertainty, because we don't know what's going to happen. You're announcing a new bill. Prime Minister Morawiecki was polite at the Economic Forum in Krynica to reveal this. He fired the fireworks and said: yes, Poland will be one economic zone. Before I ask what will be behind this, behind this one economic zone - I had an opportunity to ask a little bit at the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development today - I will ask the Minister why the dynamics of investment growth fell in 2016. Why has job growth also decreased? These are fundamental questions, because they were fundamental objectives of creating zones. The Minister didn't mention that, but I read about it in your documents. You translate this country with expired permits, but I do not accept such an answer. I ask you another question: why did you exchange such well-functioning CEOs? You gave examples of the best companies today, the best zones, and that's where the presidents were changed. Why do you destroy people, why don't you let them spread their wings, just call them off without asking anyone if that's okay? Let me put it this way: due to these adverse results in 2016 and this total staff exchange, the Civic Platform will not vote in favour of the report on the activities of the zones in 2016. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u381	Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u382	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The obligation of each company, the operator, is to pay income tax on individuals, i.e. PIT, and from legal persons, i.e. CIT, for the performance of services or goods produced. Operating in a special economic zone in an administratively separate area of the municipality, district or voivodeship involves preferential operating conditions, the use of public aid, etc. Such tax exemptions constitute a very concrete business offer. The possibility of obtaining a tax exemption affects the choice of location of specific investments. Now the question is: Can the resignation of this support in Poland threaten to keep foreign investors on this scale in the future? Special zones have affected the employment of workers and reduced unemployment in regions, total employment is growing from year to year. Zones used the availability of attractive armed land along with the necessary infrastructure such as. access roads. The zones also have negative characteristics, the aim is to improve tax optimization. The zones have developed certain areas of economic activity, such as the acquisition of new technical and technological solutions, the development of exports and transport, in particular logistics operators. Thanks to the functioning of zones we can talk about the reindustrialization of Poland. It is important that the use of unused natural resources is also carried out in accordance with the principles of ecological sustainability. There are currently 14 zones in Poland. Recipients of services and products of zone investors depending on the industry have their customers in different countries of Europe and the world. Entities investing in zones receive a tax exemption pool corresponding to investment expenditures or employment costs and the intensity of public aid in force in the region concerned. Public aid must depend on the degree of economic development of the region, which reflects the aid intensity rate, which varies between 30% and 50% for Polish zones. In terms of the functioning, the activity of zones, we hope that there will be an increase in aid for small and medium-sized enterprises. We call for a better use of unused natural resources while maintaining the principles of ecological sustainability. We hope that the State will create alternatives to special economic zones, which for investors who are just considering entering the zone would undoubtedly be an incentive to invest in those municipalities where there are no zones. Kukiz.15 supports the sustainable economic and social development of Poland. Here it should be noted that it is really necessary to provide support for Polish entrepreneurs, as well as with various instruments, also with the help of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, with such a condition that later the final product would, of course, be promoted using also e.g. PAIH, the state agency for information and commerce. The focus of all these tools in one hand, the Ministry of Development, will allow, frankly speaking, the actual support of economic operators in Poland. As I said, we support the sustainable economic and social development of Poland as a whole, not just economic zones. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u383	Mrs Elżbieta Stępień, Kukiz.15. [[Not Kukiz, Modern.]] I wouldn't have thought of that at all, my fellow Member. Absolutely. It's modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u384	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Information refers to the year 2016, and this is the time in which special economic zones... This is the time of consumption of the activities of the previous Special Zone Boards. Investors are not acquired in a few weeks. This is a multi-month process of promoting areas, tedious negotiations, creating infrastructure conditions. One can say that this report praises the predecessors. After all, the investment in the special zone and beyond is prepared in cooperation with the Polish Investment and Trade Agency. This often means two to three years of negotiations. Let us now ask the fundamental question: Are special economic zones needed, or are they for the economic development of the regions? Without tax breaks and other support, e.g. Armed land, potential investors would be interested in our country to this extent? There is no doubt that zones are jobs, investments, new technologies, work for around-zone companies, e.g. construction, suppliers, etc. Surely the zones are a stimulator, even a locomotive, in the development of the regions and should be supported. You just have to ask yourself if you want to be sure at all costs. Consider another aspect. Since the State Treasury is the majority or privileged owner of the zones, it is often the case that the zones are more concerned with its interests than with the interests of the local authorities where the investment is located. In this context, it is often the case that the local government is exerting all its power to provide the necessary technical infrastructure and, unfortunately, the exemption granted by it from the property tax is being sucked out until the state aid is exhausted, even though the company is already paying CIT tax to the tax authorities. According to local authorities, it should be that local taxes are paid first. Such a solution would allow them to recover the cost of their investments. At regional congresses, local government officials speak loudly about the need to replace the shares of the State Treasury in the zones with shares of voivodships. At that time, both investment geography and public aid components would be much more regionally oriented. It's time to ask what the future of the zones will be. Today's legislation states that the zones will operate in their current form and in accordance with the existing rules until the end of 2026, and for a serious business it is not a very long time. This may therefore result in less interest of potential investors. It will certainly be necessary to consider the possibility of a further extension in the near future, as investors receive public aid in the form of tax exemptions. First they have to build, start a company, have profits, and then enjoy the benefits. 2026 may not be an attractive enough term. Although during the economic forum in Krynica Prime Minister Morawiecki has already announced the idea of creating a single big investment zone from Poland, the question is whether it is indeed a government programme supported by concrete legislative proposals and whether there have already been discussions with the European Commission on this matter, because it is clear that the European Commission is concerned about drastic changes in the geography of public aid. The local zone critics claim that they only serve foreign capital, which Poland unnecessarily helps at the expense of our entrepreneurs. Let me stress that these are allegations of heightenedness. Polish companies have second place in terms of invested capital - 20% of all investors. However, the important question remains: How to attract Polish business, especially small and medium? How do we make our capital dominant in special economic zones? It may be difficult if the President of Law and Justice Jarosław Kaczyński He has recently accused Polish entrepreneurs of falling their GDP, that they do not invest because they are reluctant to govern them. Another issue - many places in the report are devoted to the activities of zone clusters. But it's a continuation, not a new value. It is very good that this activity is still being carried out, but it does not prove the creativity of the current boards, because the clusters were founded by the predecessors. Clusters are a form of cooperation between companies already operating and forming a network of cooperation, not top-down imposed organisational structures. Clusters form spontaneously, e.g. co-operation network around Toyota Wałbrzych. There is no doubt that they are one of the drivers of the development of cooperation between companies in special economic zones with companies and institutions operating also outside the zones. Doubts, however... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Can I have another minute? A few seconds? ...the efficiency of cluster activities. They could be more effective. But the very idea of combining entrepreneurs around common sectoral goals, creating a level of cooperation, initiating and supporting continuity of activities on the business line - teaching institutions, i.e. vocational schools, universities, and special economic zones, i.e. educational clusters, is absolutely right. The promotion of vocational education, especially at a time when very many companies are struggling with staff problems by supporting the employment of foreigners, is essential. There are graduates of universities, especially humanities, who have problems finding work in the profession, so smart vocational training could open up good prospects for young people to work, career development, etc. To conclude, I'm going to say that judging zones isn't easy. Their work is based on the activities of many entities, not only the management of zones, but also local governments, voivodships, Polish Investment and Trade Agency. Only the cooperation of these many entities can bring foreign capital to Poland and strengthen the pro-investment of national companies. And it is also important that the capital it invests with us is the capital of modern technologies, so that the added value resulting from scientific development, knowledge and skills can be added. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u385	Now I know why I have joined two clubs. Please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party. But we will start with the report and then we will move on to your speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u386	In that case... I'm sorry, but what I'm about to say is I'm gonna say and I'm not gonna pass the time. Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, Well, the economic zones have come true here and here. There's nothing revealing. It is not today, but when they started to act, when the situation was completely different, such a need to support specific places on the map of Poland, certain regions existed. I think it still exists. Therefore, it is good that at some point, with great resistance - I will say that with great resistance, because the resistance was already large - the functioning of the zones was extended until 2026. It's only been eight years, and I agree with the voices that this is too short for larger investors who plan to develop businesses. There are also questionable voices at the moment, that all Poland should be one zone, so that we will level the conditions for everyone, or in other words, we will eliminate those conditions that are in economic zones today. And here I can give an example of my voivodship, Podkarpacie. I can't imagine how Mielec would have functioned and the surroundings or Tarnobrzeg, if they hadn't been operating there since the beginning of the economic zone. But what is a nightmare is that it didn't work everywhere. In the neighbouring voivodship and in Przemyśl itself such a subzone has been operating for many, many years, the infrastructure has been carried out, the government money went for it, the state money, and there is one, and it is local, investor, and for several years there has not been any other investor. The question is, why is this happening? I think... We're talking about sustainability here, and that's how it's supposed to be. We are now saying: sustainable development will continue, but this is because in these regions it is already becoming very dangerous. There are forecasts of a huge depopulation, a depopulation of the population from the eastern regions because there are no jobs there, and there is no job there. No company's been there for years. So there's gotta be some extra action here. I don't want to suggest what it is right now, but just because there's a zone, we're not gonna solve any problems there. Of course, the club will vote in favour of this report because the zones do their job, but there are a number of shortcomings here. I have been paying attention to this for several years, because these changes that have been introduced recently in the revision of the Economic Zones Act are good, they were needed, but they don't do the whole thing. Therefore, on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I would like to say that we will vote in favour of the 2016 report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u387	I understand, sir, that this speech also covered the committee's report, right? Did... [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Is there anything else you want to say in the report? [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u388	It may still be a report, but it's already on behalf of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u389	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u390	Dear Marshal, I'm sorry I couldn't do this before, but the reasons are so technical. The Committee on Economic Affairs was sitting on 8 June, listening to the report presented by the Minister and giving recommendations to him, is in favour of the report. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u391	Thank you very much. Six people have entered the list of people who want to ask questions at this point. Would any of you like to complete the list? I can't hear you. In this connection, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Platform Club, begins. Time - 1 minute. [[One and a half minutes.]] If you extend, I am certainly not going to turn you down, sir. You say that every time, and you have enough time to ask a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u392	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I have a question, because with this process, it has been different with regard to the possible reporting of needs to attach additional land to a given zone. It happened somewhere on the board of a given zone, and then the whole process, instead of going smoothly, encountered problems in the ministry. How's it looking today? Can the municipalities further conclude? Can the zones? How quickly do these conclusions arise? How quickly do you consider them? Minister, in the report, from this tribune there were words that, as you mentioned the presidents, the members of the board... It's different in different zones. I happen to live in Jastrzębie-Zdrój, which belongs to the Katowice sub-zone, Jastrzębsko-Żorska. Recently there have been voices that, in addition to these changes in the zone, you intend to expand or appoint representatives or advisors to the management of individual cities, e.g. for the Hawk such a proxy, a proxy of the board or an advisor for a particular city. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are you going to appoint for each city whose territory lies in a given zone or assign a proxy or board advisor to take care of these areas in a given city or in a given municipality, of course, for them to be developed? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u393	As you can see, sir, there was time to ask questions. Mr Paweł Bańkowski will ask further questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u394	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask you about the reasons for the decrease in the pace of investment expenditure growth compared to 2014/2015, about the reasons for the decline in employment growth compared to 2015 by more than 5 percentage points and about the prescription that Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki spoke about in the economic forum in Krynica, i.e. that the zones will be extended to the whole country. On the basis of what criteria will the activities of these zones be extended? Will there be new zones outside the 14th? Will there be an extension of the period during which the investor will benefit from tax relief? If so, how many years? From where the forecast number of new jobs is 150 000.? In what sectors would these new jobs be created? Since when would these new, extended economic zones start functioning? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u395	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Owa, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u396	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Last year, during the adoption of information for 2015, Members of Law and Justice said that finally Polish companies, mainly small and medium-sized enterprises, will be able to invest in economic zones. Moreover, Prime Minister Morawiecki emphasizes every time that capital is important. From this point of view, we must say that this information which has been submitted to the High House has undergone radical changes in this area. For the first time in 7 years, German capital came first and radically increased participation in special economic zones. Poland has been the largest investor in special economic zones for at least 10 years, and last year this situation changed. Someone here asked how to get Polish companies to invest in zones. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You'd have to say, "Piss off the power." The second point is, if your marshal will allow me. I must say that what worries me very much is that the tens of the largest investors in the zone fall out of non-European companies at all. Japan from 5th to 11th place, United States from 3rd to 4th place. In fact, we have only investors from the European Union, only countries that are members of the European Union. Of course, leaving Britain won't change anything, because she's out of ten too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u397	Please, another question will be asked by Mr Paweł Kobyliński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u398	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Taking advantage of the opportunity that we are talking about economic zones, I would like to return to today's meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, because I did not get information about this one big Polish economic zone, and I asked when the project would be. I'm told that in the near future, but in the near future, this is such a very smooth statement, which is why I would ask for specifics here. At the same time, if this is such a more marketing term, I would ask you to say, what about these zones after 2026? Are you already proposing to extend the operation of these zones? How does this apply to European Union law? What are your plans for development at all? What is very important is what my colleague said, that Polish companies are no longer the leading investor. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'd like to know where it came from. Isn't that the result of some individual investment? Is this the general trend, or is this such a quantitative-quality trend, or is this the trend when it comes to individual investments? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u399	Thank you very much. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u400	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have questions in the same spirit, i.e. about this new big zone, which is to be all over Poland. I have a question about the criteria and principles of this new zone. Will existing management companies be liquidated? Who will issue the permit, and on what criteria will he base himself? Minister, if it's okay, it's probably good that the government wants and the investor goes there, but whether or not the investor goes, because the government wants it if there's no infrastructure and there's no adequate staff. As far as these staffs are concerned, this was one of the fundamental barriers to the development of the zones so far. I also want to ask about Polish capital. If there is such a scale of relief as the Prime Minister announced, why not finance the Polish companies that invest in their development? Maybe this is a simpler way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u401	Thank you. Last question, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u402	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The fact that the zones have really worked out in recent years is not subject to any discussion, they have indeed started those regions that have often been quite neglected. As far as investments are concerned, there are announcements of new zones, there are announcements of the development of existing ones. This is, of course, linked to the creation of new jobs, but there is a trend that is worrying. Creating new jobs and these two hundred and tens of thousands of people who have found work in the zones, that is a good signal, but it is about maintaining these jobs, because - I just happened to have data from 2014 - to 216 thousand. jobs that were created at the time in the zones, managed to maintain only 80 Several thousand Do the Ministry therefore work on this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to launch mechanisms that will sustain existing jobs and not just create new ones? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u403	Thank you very much. And I would like an answer from the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Mrs Jadwiga Emilewicz. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u404	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thank you for all your questions and for a lot of good reviews, despite everything that's happened over the last year. Issues relating to the validity and good assessment of special economic zones have actually penetrated all countries' speeches. I will address the questions, maybe I will refer first to the speeches of the state on behalf of the clubs, and these threads also appeared later in the questions. So the first thread was about staff and changes in management, because here there was also several threads about the fact that by enjoying these good financial results, we consume previous achievements. Yes, we are in particular consuming achievements such as those associated with the non-application of Public Procurement Law by some of these zones. And with such an inheritance we received all zones, four of which actually did not apply this right of order. So we woke up and for a year these new boards, and it was also one of the criteria for assessing the previous boards, the OLAF procedure was initiated, which, let me remind you, means a 100% return in a critical case, and in a more optimistic 75%... [[And how many companies?]] I'll explain it right away. Return 75% grants in respect of funds from regional programmes and national programmes which have acquired zones. In several cases, OLAF's proceedings concern not only European measures but also irregularities as regards the non-application of Public Procurement Law at all. I would like to remind you that this legal breach, lex specialis, was introduced in the Sejm in 2012 for the purposes and for the appointment of one board in one of the zones in relation to the investment proceedings conducted there. The investigation is currently underway and this is not an optimistic message for these previous boards. So if we evaluate, then let us evaluate everything according to the facts, bearing in mind that we also got to consummate frogs of this type, and we have to deal with this in the dialogue with the European Commission. Thus, if we look at this previous year, it was indeed a year related also to expenditure incurred and the need to bear expenditure on financial reductions due to the non-application of the Public Procurement Law. The new law - this thread appeared in many questions, but also in your speeches. The new law is entered on Monday in the list of work of the Council of Ministers, the 27th will be addressed to inter-ministerial consultations and public consultations will begin. There will be time for this, we are not going to rush into this law, so that really this new proposed model is discussed with everyone, i.e. with entrepreneurs, with social partners, both large and small, those who already have permissions to operate in the zone and those who would like to seek such permission. In several countries there has been a thread whether a special economic zone is needed at all, as far as it is good for the economy. I will remind you that there are such analyses, one of 2015 prepared for the needs of the then Ministry of Economy by a team of scientists from the School of Economics, which indicates many criteria according to which the special zone is not the best. Also, the 2014 NIK audit report, if I recall correctly, was not the most favourable report for special economic zones. When we started working, I remember the first studio approach in the Ministry I prepared the development by examining what the map of investments made today in the zones looks like. Let us remember that one of the positives mentioned here by one of the Members, by Mr Kasprzak, was the reduction of unemployment and the influx of capital in the situation of Poland, which is almost in bankruptcy. This was also mentioned by the honourable Member. These were indeed the motivations of the time, and these motivations are today, as well as the issue of reducing this imbalance between Western and Eastern Poland. If we look at today after almost 20 years of functioning of special economic zones, we will see that the highest investment density is in south-western Poland, thus in an area where neither the degree of unemployment nor capital dysfunction was so high. So we can say after these 20 years that the zones have actually led to the bringing to Poland of many investments, to the bringing of capital, to the creation of jobs, while they certainly did not reduce inequalities between Eastern and Western Poland, as they intended. So those who come to these places, I don't discuss at this point how... You are well aware of how many local government officials have benefited from the issue of bringing the land into the zone just to earn another election campaign - to earn, in public speaking, another election campaign - without even considering whether there is an investment on the horizon, whether it is worth pursuing or not. This is therefore the timetable for the work on the new law. The principles of this law were presented by the Prime Minister in Krynica, today also at the meeting. I mentioned this many times, as I said, it was one of the first things I did at the Ministry of Development. In addition to showing the map of investments carried out today in special zones and these disparities, we analysed simultaneously and tried to answer the question whether a special zone is really needed in Poland or not. And we can say, as many entrepreneurs also say, that special zones - like special exclusions at all - are spoiling, disrupting the market. And this is probably a model answer, but if we look at the Czech Republic, Slovakia Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, and therefore all neighbouring countries, each of them uses a zone element and zones in these countries in different ways. We, when preparing our legislative proposal, took into account all these solutions, also the fact that Lithuania extended its zone privileges to 2030 last year. The model, which seemed to be the most interesting for us from the perspective of attracting investment, was a combined model: Czech-Slovak, where there is no territorial designation, the marking of the zone, the areas to which it is possible to apply in time, but these places are set dynamically, taking into account the level of unemployment, infrastructure and the moment of development. Consequently, these countries can almost entirely say of themselves that they are a special economic zone. So this model adopted in the work was similar to the Czech and Slovak model. I'm going to answer some questions. A final remark on the size of the share of investments. This was Mrs Stępień's comment on the participation of local governments in investments and then the use of them. Let me remind you that last year, I mentioned this, these 118 million total investments were investments of zone companies and 1/3 of them - investments of local governments and investments of the Main Directorate of National Roads and Motorways. Therefore, it is not true that local authorities have the largest share of investments in zones. I answer questions. The absence of small and medium-sized enterprises. How can small and medium-sized enterprises be encouraged? If you look at the structure, it will immediately be a partial answer to Mr Owl's question, because I think he did not read the report carefully. I would like to remind you that Polish companies are still the first companies to the greatest extent, the largest number present in special economic zones. At 1537 companies, 843 are Polish companies, 694 are foreign capital. This is true when it comes to investment participation, foreign companies need to be identified and this situation has not changed since the first year of operation of zones, Polish companies are in minority. Why? Because most large companies are companies with foreign capital, and as far as medium and small companies are concerned, Polish companies are in the first place. So this situation has not changed - I repeat - since the first year of the operation of special economic zones. That is why we want to make it available and open, in constant dialogue with the social partners, with small and medium-sized enterprises. As you know, accelerated depreciation, relief for start-up, the whole legislative package dedicated primarily to small and medium-sized enterprises. Small and medium-sized enterprises have found their place in the new Act on Special Economic Zones, where I am about to mention the criteria, because there were also questions about them - small and medium-sized enterprises will have additional points that will authorise them to receive public aid in the form of tax reductions so that this zone privilege can be covered. So: yes, we remember about small and medium-sized enterprises, we hope that it is not only the wider opening of doors, because, as I have shown, small and medium-sized Polish companies are present in the zones and they are the largest companies, but we hope that they will be able to grow significantly thanks to this zone privilege. It's a cluster case. The next question concerned clusters. The honourable Member said that they are created first of all spontaneously, that there is little activity, and we talk about it a lot in the report, while there is little activity in the zones. Let me put it this way: Toyota or the Aviation Valley are indicated, there are indeed clusters based on large integrators, large investors around which the supply chain of small and medium-sized companies is being built, and they form clusters. But I would like to remind you that on the map of public aid and European funds, many companies today can apply for public aid, for grants - whether for R &amp; D or investment - only when they are members of clusters. And then in areas where there are no such large integrators, e.g. in the vicinity of Białystok, and thus in the area of the Suwałki Special Economic Zone, such a cluster is created by the zone, is the result of the endogenous activity of the zone board. That is why we have highlighted this in this report in a special way, because these clusters have actually become blushing in the last year. To such an extent that, for example, The presence of many small entrepreneurs at events such as Hannover Messe, trade fairs, becomes more visible by the fact that entrepreneurs appear within clusters rather than individually. This is due, as I say, to the activity of the boards, which is why we have shown this in the report. Of course they could be more effective, we're working on it. The pain, the weakness of Polish industry and Polish entrepreneurs in general is what I often repeat and what we also talked about in committee meetings on various occasions - a certain inability to cooperate. It is on the one hand that there is no such body as is known in the German, Austrian or Swiss model, i.e. the general economic self-government. He is a certain deficit that we see when it comes to building vocational education, as regards arbitration proceedings or as regards some technological progress, building a supply chain not only on the basis of its own competences. This is an important lack, which is why these clusters are such an indirect route, and this combination could actually be more effective, while entrepreneurs must actually see added value and want to integrate themselves. Another thread, from Mr Kasprzak's question, why there is no investment in several places, that there is a very clear investment deficit on this map. I mentioned this at the beginning, and you say that we see very large disparities. As I say, southwest Poland or Silesia and Katowice special zone. With this extremely positive assessment, which has repeatedly been expressed against the previous board of directors, I would like to remind you that the first activity of this zone was not the result of some particular capacity of the board, which remained beyond everything, but were some strategic decisions of the then very old government concerning the location of large foreign investments in the area, and this was the result, as I say, not so much of the efficiency of the management as the political decisions of the government. It is good that the manager was able to use this wind well and creatively in the sails. These investments are not in many places. We're aware of that. Hence, this amendment of the Act will give the possibility to obtain more intensive public aid in those places where there is no investment today. That's what this bonus is gonna be, and it's any bonus. It is not that someone will be taken by the hand, Madam Member, and you will say to him: you want in Wrocław, but we give you in the Podlasie. No, he'll have a choice. In Wroclaw? There you go - 3%, and there's 70%. You choose, you have an alternative. As I say, this is how the Czechs and Slovaks do it, and they do it as I had the opportunity to analyze, very effectively. Mr Gadowski asked for a proxy in every city. The structure of the company is shaped by the boards of companies, so this is not our role. [[But what is the minister's position?]] We'll be judging by the financial results. If it's gonna work, we're gonna leave it up to the board. I'm sure this is because we also see in a few cases... I have recently analysed the Wałbrzych Special Economic Zone and the situation is similar in Kostrzyn-Słubice, which is very distracted, i.e. The geographical range of activity is very large, there are two parks, two sharing locations. Perhaps it will be appropriate for such an attorney to be there after analysis. Let's see what the board presents, it'll be evaluated in the form of... This is not, in any case, the distribution of the Ministry of Development. Mr Bańkowski asked about the reasons for the fall in investment, the decline in the number of jobs and the new criteria and the new law. This issue has also been repeated in the questions of several Members. The Member states that this is one of the main reasons, and this is not enough for you, but yes, that is the truth. 94 expired zone permits - we cannot ignore that this is the reason for the decrease in investment. At the same time, when it comes to the number of jobs... Ladies and gentlemen, either Industry 4.0 and factories of the future, or an increasing number of jobs. In the huts in the '60s, it must have worked 45 grand. people to produce a certain tonnage of steel, today the same tonnage of steel produces 10,000. persons. So this is also one of the directions of the amendment of the new zone policy law. This is not a criterion precisely for the number of jobs that was important and justified in the early 1990s, but it is less important today. Today, the volume of investment and the quality of this investment are more important, i.e. if the investor creates a R &amp; D centre, he will get more points in the evaluation criteria and will be able to count on a higher intensity of public aid. That's actually a real reason. However, if we are looking at this last year and at the same time what I said to you about the number of permits granted, the forecast number of jobs created and the volume of investment, it allows us to look very optimisticly forward. I have already mentioned some of the new criteria. The volume of investment, the size of the investment will be the first criterion. The second criterion is a qualitative criterion. As I say, we were writing R &amp; D centers there, but also shared service centers, because we see... We were dealing with it here. This is certainly a subject close to Mr Sowie, who knows perfectly well the structure of Krakow, where the common service centres are the first employer in this city at the moment. A few years ago, many analyses indicated that these are investments on short legs and we should not be very happy with them, because they are probably even easier to move quickly than logistics centres, but today we see that these shared service centres located in Poland are increasingly backoffice centers, increasingly advanced, and therefore their relocation will not be easy given the increasing labour costs, because it is not labour costs, but the quality of employees decides that other companies want to be in this area in Poland. Thus, R &amp; D centres, shared service centres and a special category for small and medium-sized enterprises. I hope that I will have the pleasure of presenting a new law to you this year while working on this law in the Sejm. Indeed, the process, as I said, was very intensive at the Ministry of Development, preceded by really in-depth analytical work. I think I can defend a lot of records, but we are, of course, open and ready to discuss the future shape. As regards stability, of course, the stability of the law is fundamental and those who have been granted zone permits operate under certain conditions until 2026 at the time of the entry into force of the Act, and those who have acquired rights, you know, it is clear that they remain. This will concern further applicants seeking permission to operate in the zone. [[New areas.]] Here we have three more areas, including new areas and waiting times. I'll answer them now. In answer to Mr Mark Owy's next question, that only the countries of the European Union - however, we have mentioned not only the countries of the European Union, but also Japan and very valuable, very important Japanese investments and investments from the United States. So these volumes, as we'll see in the ranking, when it comes to degrees change, but in size, they're not big, important changes. We also have a very attractive, very large Japanese investment in southern Poland this year. We're open, they're actually coming. The interest in investments in Poland is - from many parts of the world, not only from Germany. Of course, the Germans took the lead because we were able to attract a very large investment, as you know, Daimler's investment, very important, very complex and complicated, from which we are very happy. That's why it's growing, and that's why it's changing on the podium. Mr Kobyliński asked about the bill. That's what I said. Monday - an entry in the list of work of the Council of Ministers, 27 September - inter-ministerial consultations and public consultations. Another thread, another question about the waiting time, what service looks like at the moment, how long it takes. I was talking about it in my first speech. I said, I'm sorry: 3 months, and this period has been reduced to 30 days if there are no significant deficiencies. But last year the longest trial lasted three months. Where does this come from? We have reduced the number of necessary documents that have been unnecessary in previous years... The documents competent for the issuing by the authorities authorised to do so were once again audited by three persons in the Ministry of Development. We thought there was no need for anyone who wasn't a surveyor to control maps from the Bureau of Geodesy and Cartography. And that's for example. a very important change, because it was a very long process when it comes to determining the size of land. So, in fact, this process has been very narrowed down. The last enlargements of special economic zones, if I recall correctly, took place in the first week of September, and therefore land may still be included in the zones under the conditions provided by the Act. One thread, which also appeared here in the speeches, and I have talked about it many times, was about why to expand if the zones are developed in 60%. We have reviewed these zones by doing such an opening balance, especially seeing in several zones very large disparities, because this development is between 70% a - in some extreme cases - 30%. Where do these disparities come from? In these most radical parts and areas of land were included, they were incorporated into zones that run under high voltage lines, are in flood areas, i.e. areas that should never be included in zones in life, and they are in their territory. It is therefore difficult to say that we can make more use of what exists, even though we are trying. If these are investment areas, real investment areas, we are really trying to do that. It's the last thread. Thank you very much for this remark, paying attention that investment and attracting investment this is a harmonious game on the four hands of several executive authorities and several executive agencies. And that's the truth, of course. But we can... What I can say with full conviction is that the biggest investments attracted to Poland last year did not happen due to the activity of local authorities. Self-government is, of course, necessary to ensure that certain procedures are smooth, but they have been absolutely due to a very intense activity at government level, including the personal activity of Prime Minister Morawiecki - and these are his absolutely personal successes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u405	Thank you, Minister, for answering my questions. Mr Marek Owa has tabled a request for correction. You're welcome. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u406	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I would like to say that I did not refer to all the information. Last year I had more time for this, so then I could look at it as a whole. I referred to the speeches made by Members of the Law and Justice in this area and to the words of Prime Minister Morawiecki, who stressed the importance of capital being important. I understand the Minister agrees with that, too. And in this respect on page. 20 in the information is very clearly written - and you did not hide it in your speech - that Polish capital fell from the first place to the second place when it comes to the size of the investment. Today, the size of German investments in zones is PLN 26.5 billion, Polish - PLN 22 billion. Besides, when we look at the largest companies that invest, it is also in vain to look for the top fifteen largest investors in the economic zones of the Polish company. I'm sorry about that, because of course, every one of us, I think, in this room would like to see [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish capital dominated in a normal way, because this also shows economic position. Unfortunately, this is not yet the case, and last year in this respect has not brought us closer. To this, he just took it away. That's all I wanted to notice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u407	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. A request for rejection of the information submitted was made in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 32 of the agenda: the report of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2016 of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners (print No 1462) together with the position of the Board of Administration and Home Affairs (print No 1551). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration of Mr Sebastian Gwałk to speak in order to present the report. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u408	Dear Marshal! Dear Members, In accordance with the obligation under Article. 4 of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners I present to you the report of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2016 of the Law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners. The report analyses this issue and presents the scale of interest of foreigners in acquiring real estate in Poland in 2016 as well as shares and shares in companies owned or owned by perpetual real estate users in Poland. The data contained in the report reflect the number of decisions issued by the Minister in 2016 concerning the purchase by foreigners of real estate, shares or shares, as well as the scale acquired by foreigners of real estate, shares and shares which are shown by the Minister's records of purchased real estate, shares and shares by authorisation and without the required permission. At this point I would like to stress that the records of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration in 2016 were based on extracts of notarial acts relating to legal acts under which foreigners acquired property, and on final copies of court decisions by which the acquisition of property by foreigners took place, as well as copies of the provisions on entry in the register of entrepreneurs of the National Court Register concerning the acquisition or entry of shares in companies holding real estate in the territory of the Republic of Poland by foreigners. In view of the above, the completeness of the records kept by the Minister depends to a large extent on the reliability of the obligation to send the documents indicated to the Minister by notaries and courts. The acquisition of real estate by foreigners requires, in principle, the permission of the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. Foreigners are also obliged to obtain permission to acquire or acquire shares or shares in a company, as well as any other action concerning shares or shares of a trading company established in Poland which is the owner or user of perpetual real estate in the territory of Poland. The provisions of the Act are aligned with the requirements of European law, and in particular European freedoms for citizens and entrepreneurs of States Parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation. In 2016, a 12-year transitional period was concluded limiting the purchase of agricultural and forestry property to citizens and businesses originating in the EEA and the Swiss Confederation. From 1 May 2016, they may acquire real estate under the same conditions as Polish citizens without the need to apply for the permission of the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. As in previous years, there is a small number of permissions granted for the acquisition, in principle taking up shares or shares in companies owned by or users of perpetual real estate located in Poland, because capital turnover for entities originating in the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation is of course free and there are no restrictions in this respect. At the same time, while implementing the law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners, in 2016, the Minister responsible for Home Affairs issued 252 permissions for the acquisition of land with a total area of 79.9 ha, with the highest number of permits granted to foreigners representing citizenship or capital: Ukrainian - 109, Belarusian - 33, Russian - 16, and the largest area recorded in the Lower Silesian, Mazowieckie and Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodships, including 51 permits for the acquisition of agricultural and forestry properties with a total area of 64,78 ha and the highest number of permits obtained here by Ukrainian citizens, then the Netherlands and Austria, and the largest area recorded in the Lower Silesian, Mazowieckie and Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodships. 96 permits were also issued for the purchase of residential and commercial premises with a total area of 5873,24 m2. The largest number of permits were granted to Ukrainian citizens - 59, Belarus - 11, Russia - 8. The largest area was in Pomeranian, Lower Silesian and West Pomeranian voivodships. 8 permissions to acquire shares and shares in companies owned or owned by perpetual properties in Poland with an area of almost 36.5 ha and owners of commercial premises with a total area of over 326 m2. Here you can say: individuals - Ukrainians, Israeli citizens dominated among their nationalities. This is also from the United States, Mauritius, Hong Kong and Turkey. The properties were mainly located in the Lower Silesian, Lubuskie and Lesser Poland voivodship. In general, the permits concerned the most common properties located in the Dolnośląskie, Mazowieckie and Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship in the scope of all discussed. Among the authorised entities, Ukraine and Belarus dominated, as was apparent from citizenship or capital. In 2016, the Minister responsible for Home Affairs issued 35 decisions refusing foreign nationals to grant permission to acquire land, premises, shares and shares. Within this number, negative decisions were issued because of the foreigner's failure to show his permanent ties with Poland or the failure to comply with statutory conditions justifying the issue of the permit. Within the indicated number of all negative decisions, 10 negative decisions were issued because of the Minister's opposition to agriculture and rural development. The Minister of Home Affairs and Administration shall also undertake activities within the framework of his statutory powers to examine the legality of the acquisition by foreigners of real estate, shares or shares. Where a transaction is found to have been concluded in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the acquisition of immovable property by aliens, an entry in the register of immovable property acquired by aliens shall be made with or without the obligation to obtain such authorisation respectively. In 2016, the number of recorded transactions concerning the acquisition of all land by foreigners increased by 22% compared to the previous year. As in recent years, most buyers have been citizens and entrepreneurs from the European Economic Area. According to the data collected in the registers kept, foreigners, both on the basis of the required authorisation and without the obligation to apply for authorisation, acquired in 2016: First, land real estate with a total area of more than 3185 ha on the basis of 5191 registered transactions, including agricultural and forestry real estate with a total area of almost 576 ha on the basis of 743 registered transactions. Here I would like to quote for better information that in terms of the area the most land property was acquired by foreigners representing citizenship or capital: German - 881 ha, Dutch - almost 626 ha and Cyprus - almost 330 ha. The largest area was recorded in Mazowieckie, Silesian and Lower Silesian voivodships. In the field of agricultural and forestry real estate, the largest number of real estates were acquired representing nationality or capital: German, Dutch, Austrian. And here the largest number of these properties are located in the Mazowieckie, Lubuskie and Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship. Housing and utility premises with a total area of 649 740 m2 based on 6395 transactions. And here, when it comes to citizenship or capital nationality, we have Dutch, Ukrainians and Germans. The largest area was recorded in the Mazowieckie, Małopolskie and Dolnośląskie voivodship. Then 41 acquisitions of shares or shares were registered in companies owned or owned by perpetual property with a total area of 1177,35 ha. In terms of area, the Pomorskie, Zachodniopomorskie and Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship dominated here, capital or nationality respectively: German, Belgian and Danish. Generally, in 2016, as regards all these transactions, foreigners acquired the most properties in the Mazowieckie, Silesian and Lower Silesian voivodship, and citizenship or capital of the largest number concerned the Germans and the Netherlands. Given that the authorisation is valid 2 years from its date of issue, and only the parties to the transaction depend on when and whether the contract will be concluded, data on the number of authorisations issued in a given calendar year often do not coincide with the data on the real estate acquisition transactions made on the basis of that authorisation. In addition, not every permit means the actual acquisition of the property by the foreigner - you know, the parties to the transaction may waive the intention to conclude the contract despite the consent received. In accordance with the Article. 6 Act to acquire property by a foreigner contrary to the provisions of the Act is invalid. The annulment of the acquisition of the property by the foreigner shall be decided by the court on request, inter alia. Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. This right also has the right due to the location of the estate of the governor, the governor and the Marshal of the voivodship. In 2016, 72 transactions entered into in breach of the law were recorded. Among these cases, in 56 cases, as a result of the actions taken by the Minister responsible for the internal affairs of the parties to the transaction, they themselves led to a state in accordance with the law on the acquisition of immovable property by foreigners, while in the remaining 16 cases the Minister referred to the court for annulment of the acquisition of immovable property by the foreigner by law. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, it should be noted that the registers kept by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration enable the monitoring of trends in the acquisition of real estate, shares and shares by foreigners, an analysis of the scale of interest of individual groups of entities, including individuals, entrepreneurs representing, foreign capital, and the acquisition of specific types of real estate and the degree of interest of such real estate in individual voivodships. The registers kept are a database containing in particular information concerning the property acquired by foreigners and the data of the companies which foreign nationals acquired or acquired their shares. These data are derived from notarial acts sent and court orders, and are obtained in the course of investigations carried out by the authorities. It is therefore very important to ensure that documents relating to the acquisition by foreigners of real estate, shares or shares are fairly transmitted by courts and notaries so that the records kept by the Minister contain complete data in this regard. It also requires that, despite the end of the transitional period during which the permission to acquire agricultural and forestry property by foreigners from the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation was required, the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration is still a body empowered to monitor the trading of immovable property involving foreigners by keeping a register of real estate, shares and shares acquired and covered by aliens. It should be indicated that on 1 January 2017 the Law of 2 December 2016 amending the Law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners and certain other laws entered into force. The changes made are primarily intended to improve the system of obtaining documents and information necessary for the full registration of immovable property, shares and shares acquired or covered by aliens. They have extended both the circle of entities obliged to inform the Minister responsible for Home Affairs about events subject to the law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners as well as the scope of the documents transmitted. The acquisition of information on specific legal events from 1 January 2017 is carried out from various sources. This includes notaries, courts and public administrations. It is also assumed that this will allow for a faster response in the event of a breach of the law, which will positively affect the certainty of economic turnover. A more complete collection of information will result in the data entered in the above mentioned. registers will accurately reflect the real interest of foreigners in real estate located in Poland and their participation in the Polish capital market. The key changes made by this amendment to the law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners are, as I mentioned, the extension of the catalogue sent by notaries and by the courts of documents and the inclusion of all documents resulting from notarial activities and all documents submitted to the register files resulting in the acquisition of real estate, shares and shares, as well as the obligation of the public authorities to send the minister final administrative decisions by virtue of which the foreigner acquired the property. The effectiveness of the changes made to the Real Estate Purchase Act will, of course, only be possible after the full annual period following the entry into force of the amendment. This issue will be examined next year as part of the implementation report of the Foreign Property Purchase Act in 2017. Ladies and gentlemen! When presenting the report of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2016 of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of property by foreigners, I ask you kindly to accept it. I would like to thank the House for its time and attention. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u409	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Edward Siarka to speak in order to present the position of the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u410	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, I have the honour to present a report on the report by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2016 of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners, print No 1462. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs considered this report at its meeting on 25 May. And she's asking for it. At the same time, when discussing this report on the implementation of the law, I would like to point out that on 30 April 2016 the transitional period for the acquisition of real estate by foreigners, which was in force in Poland for 12 years since Poland entered the European Union in 2004. The Sejm adopted two new laws in connection with this date: the Law of 14 April 2016 on the suspension of the sale of real estate, agricultural property of the State Treasury and the Law of 13 April 2016 on the amendment of the Law on forests, which introduced far-reaching restrictions on the marketing of both agricultural and forestry land. In 2016, as the Minister has already said, a total of 781 administrative decisions were issued in respect of applications for permits for the acquisition of land, the acquisition of premises, the acquisition of shares or shares for foreigners. In 2016, the Ministry also issued 35 negative decisions. In total, on the basis of permits, foreigners acquired 79.9 ha of land property in 2016 and this is a clear decrease compared to previous years. Of course, in a different position, where permits are not issued, we record an increase, which was also mentioned by the Minister. I will not present the remaining data, they are included in the print, and you will probably also refer to this. As rapporteur, I thank the marshal and ask for this report to be adopted. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u411	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Piotr Kaleta to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u412	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is probably not hard to know that my speech will be in a similar spirit as the speech of the Minister and the rapporteur. Nevertheless, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I submit to the High House an opinion on the report by the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2016 of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners. High Izbo! The Act of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners is a legal act regulating the acquisition of real estate by foreigners in Poland, because it introduces the general principle that the acquisition of real estate by a foreigner requires authorisation, which is issued by administrative decision by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. This law also regulates the acquisition by foreigners of shares or shares in commercial companies established in the territory of the Republic of Poland which are the owners or users of perpetual real estate. The legal acts governing the acquisition of immovable property by foreigners are the above mentioned law on the acquisition of immovable property, as well as two implementing acts. The first is the Regulation of the Minister of the Interior of 2012 on detailed information and the types of documents to be submitted by the foreigner seeking permission to acquire real estate and the second regulation of the Council of Ministers of 2004 on the procedure and detailed rules for keeping records of real estate, shares and shares acquired or covered by aliens. The law on the acquisition of immovable property by foreigners applies only to entities having the status of aliens. A foreigner within the meaning of Article. 1 paragraph 2 of the Act is a natural person who does not have Polish citizenship, a legal person established abroad, who has no legal personality, a company of persons listed in points 1 or 2, established abroad, established in accordance with the laws of foreign countries, a legal person and a commercial company not having legal personality established in the territory of the Republic of Poland, controlled directly or indirectly by persons or companies listed in points 1, 2 and 3. In the case of a commercial company, a controlled company, within the meaning of the Act, shall be deemed to have a foreigner or foreigners directly or indirectly owned above. 50% votes at a meeting of shareholders or at a general meeting. In view of the above, the law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners will not apply, inter alia. to a natural person who has also Polish citizenship alongside the nationality of a foreign State, as well as to a capital company established in the territory of the Republic in which foreigners, partners or shareholders do not have more than 50% of the shares votes at the shareholders' meeting or do not have a dominant position in the company. High Izbo! The Minister of Home Affairs and Administration presented a detailed report on the implementation of the Law in 2016. This report includes, inter alia, issues such as the conditions for the acquisition of real estate by foreigners, the scale of interest, the acquisition of real estate by foreigners, the granting of permits, the examination of the legality of the acquisition of such immovable property and the most important and in-depth statistics needed for this law. High Izbo! In 2016 - maybe only a few examples - foreigners received a total of 251 permits for the acquisition of land with a total area of less than 80 hectares. The permits concerned mostly properties located in voivodships: Dolnośląskie - more than 18 ha, Mazowieckie - less than 18 ha, Kujawsko-Pomorskie - 12,5 ha, Wielkopolskie - less than 9 ha, Lublin - 7 ha, Małopolskie - less than 4 ha. Foreigners who were granted permits mostly represented citizenship and capital: Ukrainian - 109 permits, Belarusian - 33 permits, Russian - 16 permits, Armenian - 10 permits and Chinese - 10 permits. The registers of real estate, shares and shares acquired and acquired by foreigners by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration and without the obligation to obtain authorisation should permit monitoring of trends in this area and analysis of the scale of interest of individual groups, entities, natural persons and entrepreneurs representing foreign capital in acquiring specific types of real estate, as well as the degree of interest in such real estate in individual voivodships. The registers kept are a database containing in particular information concerning the property acquired by foreigners and the data of the companies in which foreign nationals acquired or acquired shares. These data are derived from notarial acts sent and court orders, and are obtained in the course of investigations carried out by the Authority. It is also stressed that, despite the end of the transitional period during which the permission to acquire agricultural and forestry property by foreigners from the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation was required, the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration is still a body empowered to monitor the trading of immovable property involving foreigners by keeping a register of real estate, shares and shares acquired or covered by aliens. It should be indicated that on 1 January 2017 the Law of 2 December 2016 amending the Law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners and certain other laws entered into force. The changes made are primarily intended to improve the system of obtaining documents and information necessary for the full registration of immovable property, shares and shares acquired or covered by aliens. They widen the circle of entities obliged to inform the Minister responsible for home affairs about events subject to the law on the acquisition of property by foreigners, as well as the scope of the transmission of documents. The acquisition of information on specific legal events from 1 January 2017 will take place from various sources, i.e. from notaries, courts and public administrations. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With reference to the report submitted by the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration, Parliamentary Printing No 1462, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I ask for its adoption and at the same time inform the High House that this is also the position of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, which will vote in favour of this report. Marshal, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u413	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u414	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The report by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2016 of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners describes on 98 pages statistics which concern more than 5 000. transactions and more than 3,000. ha land. It is worth recalling that in 2015 Law and Justice thundered that the reports prepared by the previous government of PO-PSL are a farce, because they do not reflect what is actually happening in the real estate market in relation to foreigners. Data collected in the records of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration show that in 2016 foreigners on the basis of 5191 transactions bought land real estate in Poland with a total area of 3185 ha, while agricultural and forestry properties with a total area of 576 ha were sold within 743 transactions. We learn from the report that the most popular land was purchased by Germans, the Netherlands, Cyprus, Luxembourg, but the Ministry also lists the citizens of countries such as the Virgin Islands, Mongolia, Bangladesh, Taiwan and Syria. The report states that 41 transactions have been registered for the acquisition or acquisition by foreigners of shares or shares in companies owned or operated by perpetual real estate with a total area of 1177 ha, including agricultural and forestry real estate with a total area of 979 ha. The shares were purchased by buyers from Germany, Belgium, Denmark and Austria. According to this report, agricultural and forestry land acquired by foreigners in 2016 accounted for around 18% the area of all purchased land property. Most of these land was acquired for housing purposes or for economic investment. In its report, the Ministry states that by analogy to previous years the greatest interest in acquiring real estate in Poland is shown by foreigners from the European Economic Area, and the area acquired by this group of foreign real estate in 2016 represents more than 98% the area of all purchased land property. Foreigners were primarily interested in land real estate intended for economic investment, purchased by entrepreneurs, as well as for permanent residence in Poland by nationals of Member States of the European Economic Area who live and work in Poland. It has been noted that many apartments, mainly apartments, started buying Ukrainian citizens. Most often, land was purchased in Mazowieckie, Lower Silesia, Silesia, Wielkopolska, Pomorskie or Warmia-Mazurskie voivodships. The Ministry of Administration and Home Affairs informs that in 1990 and 2016 foreigners obtained 25 332 permissions to acquire land with a total area of more than 52 537 ha. It has been noted that since 2004 foreigners from the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation can freely acquire property and shares in commercial companies, i.e. without permission. We learn from the report that the number of permissions issued to acquire shares or shares in companies owned or used by perpetual properties located in Poland since 2005 has decreased significantly. I would like to remind you that 8 permits were issued in 2016, and 400 were issued in 2003. Minister! According to the Civic Platform, the report under review does not fully describe the situation of land purchase. This has been the case before, and that is what we believe to be the case today. Our question, which we want to ask today, is: Are foreign companies registering daughter companies in Poland included in the statistics of the Ministry as foreigners, but is it so that daughter companies are treated as Polish companies and are not included in the statistics of the Minister of Home Affairs as foreign? We would ask for a clear interpretation in this matter. And we also ask you to explain how companies with a minority share of foreign capital are treated, whether these entities are included in the statistics on the sale of land to foreigners. If they do not appear, will the Ministry take legislative initiatives in this regard to amend these provisions? I would also like to point out that the public was informed about the unauthorised acquisition of agricultural property by foreigners in 2013 and 2015 on the so-called. columns, which caused a wave of agricultural protests, especially in the Zachodniopomorskie voivodship and in front of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister in Warsaw. In 2015, however, Law and Justice announced after the elections that the case would be thoroughly investigated in legal terms. And we would also like to know, Minister, how many sales transactions on the so-called. the pillars have been cancelled, how many hectares of agricultural land have been returned to the Treasury and what legal consequences have finally been drawn against those who, according to the Law and Justice, have violated the law at that time. We would like to point out that the Supreme Audit Chamber stated that the sale of real estate in Poland with the participation of foreigners does not pose a threat to national interests and is subject to effective control by the Minister of Home Affairs. What was the point of this campaign when the control authorities of the Polish state agreed on something different than the representatives of the social side, the trade unions of farmers? Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! From the point of view of scale and possible threats to Poland's sovereignty or our economy, the data contained in the report are not worrying. The Civic Platform Club will therefore vote in favour of printing report No 1462. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u415	Thank you, sir. As regards the Kukiz club15, we have a written statement. Therefore, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u416	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the opinion of the Modern Club on the report of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2016 of the Law of 24 March 1920. And here we cannot fail to notice that we are in the Seym and that it is worth sometimes to think that you can create a law that can be good for almost 100 years, because in the case of this law we will soon celebrate its 100th anniversary. And we should sometimes wonder if we should follow the footsteps of our predecessors who made such a good law. I will not mention these statistics here again, because my predecessors have already spoken a lot about it. I would rather refer to a comparison, because this is the second report that we have the opportunity to process and evaluate here. It is very accurate, it is well prepared, substantive. In fact, all the information that should be there has been included. In principle, it can be assessed whether data for 2016 differ from previous data. It seems that these differences are small, that this law, which reduces a little - maybe not even a little, but in a quite decisive way - the ability to sell land, brings visible results. It can be said that the number of transactions has been at a similar level, while as for the area, these quantities have fallen significantly. As far as appeals against decisions are concerned, there are no special differences here, there were seven complaints in 2016 with 608 decisions. This is maintained at a similar level. When it came to refusing decisions, there were 35 such decisions. That's not the amount that could raise any doubts either. I will not hide that the amount of land that has been acquired by foreigners is not large, because indeed 80 ha is not much. If you can say here where you can see the difference, then there are definitely more transactions related to the purchase of premises. This is because we have recently seen a large influx of our neighbours from Ukraine, who bind their life plans to Poland. They are the ones who are largely trying to acquire real estate and housing so that they can live and work with us. Of course, we also have information about the register in addition to the permit information. Here we can also say that we have not seen any decisive movements or changes, so that everything is practically on a similar level. Therefore, since all these data and the report are not controversial, the Modern Club will be in favour of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u417	Thank you very much, sir. I speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club, Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u418	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! The Minister responsible for home affairs has the statutory obligation to report annually to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the implementation of the provisions of the Act of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners. The document submitted to the High Chamber shall in particular provide information on the authorisations granted. It concerns the type, area and territory of the distribution of the properties concerned and the rules for granting authorisations, as well as the reasons for refusing decisions. The report also addresses the issue of keeping records of real estate, shares and shares acquired by foreigners. It's standard for the requirements of the law. The provisions of the Act at their disposal are adapted to European law as regards the freedom of movement of capital available to entities from States Parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation. The laws complement and clarify two regulations. This is to guarantee the interests of the Republic of Poland. The regulations referred to ensure that the Minister responsible for Home Affairs makes use of a broad catalogue of powers, including controls, in order to discharge the obligations imposed by the law in a fair manner, including the obligation to issue non-cooperative decisions of a positive nature for foreigners, while maintaining a prudential parity. The High Sejm. I'm going to be more specific in terms of numbers. It should be noted that over the reporting year 2016 compared to the previous year, the number of complaints for decisions has increased by three to the administrative court. The Minister issued a total of 35 decisions refusing foreign nationals permission to acquire property, premises, shares and shares. Out of 356 cases completed with a positive decision 252, the permit concerns the acquisition of land, 96 permits concern the acquisition of residential and commercial premises, 8 permits - the acquisition of shares in companies. The most attractive properties were located in Lower Silesia, Mazowieckie, Kujawsko-Pomorskie and Wielkopolska voivodships. West Pomeranian Voivodeship was the last place in relation to the acquisition of land. The 2016 reporting year is characterised by the smallest area in hectares of land covered by permits, as it is only less than 80 hectares. Similarly, there has been a significant decrease in the permits issued for agricultural and forestry property. The area calculated in hectares of forest property covered by the permits shall be closed by a figure of 8,16 ha. There is an increase, which is significant, in the number of permits for the acquisition of residential and commercial premises, which is 96. This is the largest number since 2012. Among the natural persons, the largest number of land real estate was acquired by German, UK, Austria, the Netherlands and Ukraine. The prime source of information about the property acquired by foreigners is for the Minister the discharge of notarial acts sent by notaries. Ladies and gentlemen, the report gives a very detailed picture of all kinds of transactions. The reading of the report suggests that during the reporting year 2016, the Minister managed the property in a balanced manner. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will vote in favour of the report by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration together with the position of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u419	Thank you very much. Two Members have entered on the list of people who want to ask a question. Would any of you like to sign up? I can't see. I'm closing the list. We begin with Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club. You're welcome. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u420	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have already said that most of this data does not differ from what was in the previous report, but there is one place that intrigued me, because the amount of forest area that was sold has fallen very much. And now the question to the Minister. Minister, is this the result of less interest, changes in regulations or the actions of Minister Szyszka, who cut out so many trees that unfortunately we no longer have forests for sale? Thank you very much. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u421	And Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u422	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Dear Members, This law, this information, shows us all that there is peace on the agricultural property market, above all, and ground property. On the other hand, I believe that there was an absolute phobia about those who wanted to buy the Polish land of foreigners. The numbers and information of the Minister do not confirm that. So I have a question as to whether we know as the Ministry, as the Sejm, how many hectares Poles bought. What area of land are our homeowners, foreign land, whether in Europe or in other parts of the world? This would show what level we are at when it comes to relations: foreigners to us, we to foreigners. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u423	Thank you very much. I would like to speak with the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Sebastian Gwałk. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u424	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There were basically two questions. The latter I can only briefly answer: there is no such data, the Ministry of Home Affairs has no authority to control the rotation of the land. [[Who could?]] I think we could ask our neighbors to give this information to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but I don't think it's that simple. I think we could try to get this information at European Union level. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not have these powers and duties. It might be an interesting reading, of course, but like I said, to that... [[Neither does any Polish institution.]] It's hard for me to say, but I don't think anyone in Poland is conducting this kind of research. As for the first question concerning the decline in the area of purchased forest land, there may be several reasons, but the first question is the law on forests, new regulations, the right of pre-emption by the State Forests, as far as forest land is concerned, perhaps a little less interest. Of course, this could also be influenced by the end of the transitional period of this law. However, in my view, this is mainly a matter of pre-emption by the State Forests and changes from the Forest Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u425	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u426	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present an opinion on the report by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2016 of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners. In 2016, the Government of Law and Justice introduced restrictions on the sale of agricultural land in the Republic, restricting the possibility of selling agricultural land within the administrative borders of cities which, as has been repeatedly stressed and alarmed, will not have an essential impact on the purchase of Polish land by foreigners, but will, in a drastic way, prevent Polish citizens from trading private agricultural land in terms of both their sale and purchase. Today in the Sejm we are discussing a report prepared by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration concerning, among others. this issue and how the acquisition of land by foreigners developed in 2016. The Minister's report states that in 2016 a total of 486 applications for permission to acquire real estate and shares in companies owned or used by perpetual real estate located in Poland were received. This number covered 478 real estate applications and the remaining 8 concerned shares and shares. The Ministry issued e.g. 356 permits and 35 refusals. In 2016, foreigners received a total of 251 permits for the acquisition of land with a total area of 79.81 ha: legal persons received 18 permits for the total area of 47,70 ha of real estate, natural persons received 233 permits for the acquisition of real estate with a total area of 32,10 ha. Legal persons were mainly interested in obtaining permission to acquire real estate located in voivodships: Dolnośląskie (16.30 ha), Wielkopolskie (6.41 ha), Kujawsko-Pomorskie (12.56 ha), Lubelskie (4.84 ha). Natural persons were mainly interested in obtaining permission to acquire properties located in the voivodships: Mazowieckie (14.04 ha), Wielkopolskie (2.48 ha), Małopolska (3.43 ha) and Dolnośląskie (2.32 ha). Among foreigners authorised (natural persons and legal persons combined), Ukrainian citizenship and capital (109 permits), Belarusian (33 permits), Russian (16 permits), Armenian (10 permits), Chinese (10 permits). The Minister's report also states that, after a comparison of data from the last 5 years, it is concluded that both the number of permits issued for the acquisition of land by foreigners and the area of the authorised property in 2016 decreased significantly compared to previous years (as compared to 2015 the number of permits decreased by 25%, while the area of the premises covered by the permits decreased by 83%. ). This results in the end of the transitional period concerning restrictions on the acquisition of agricultural and forestry property by citizens and entrepreneurs from the European Economic Area. According to the reports, 318 permits were issued in 2012 and 252 permits were issued in 2013 and 271 permits in 2014 and almost identical to those in 2015 and 251 permits in 2016 (one less than in 2013). In view of these figures, no substantial difference was recorded in terms of the overall low volume of licences issued in 2016. The area was slightly larger: in 2012 and 2014 it amounted to just over 100 ha, in 2013 and 697 ha, in 2015 and 460 ha in 2016, and only 80 ha in 2016. It also reduced the number of permits for the acquisition of agricultural and forestry property (2012 - 218 permits, 2013 - 166, 2014 - 166, 2015 - 162, 2016 - 51 permits), but increased the number of permits for residential and commercial premises (2012 - 80 permits, 2013 - 57, 2014 - 70, 2015 - 68, 2016 - 96 permits respectively). Statistics on the subject could be quoted for a long time, but after the above mentioned, it can be seen that the problem of buying land and property in Poland in general does not exist. These transactions represent only a small percentage of all such transactions. This raises the question again: Are we even dealing with the problem of buying Polish land by foreigners in Poland? Neither the figures nor the figures from recent years confirm this trend. This raises another question: Is it appropriate to introduce draconian restrictions where there is no problem, in addition in a way that leaves the various possibilities for foreign parties to circumvent the new law, while in a fundamental way it strikes Polish citizens and their freedom to own them? The answer to both questions seems obvious: no. And with this conclusion, we remain, among others, established in it. the report by the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration referred to here.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u427	The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs proposes that the Sejm adopt the report of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2016 of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners, contained in print No 1462, for information. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 14 September this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. Therefore, I consider the list closed. I ask Catherine Chechara, the Law and Justice Club, to make the first statement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u428	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Jerzy Popieluszko, chaplain of the Solidarity, solid soldier of the Catholic Church, a priest who died 33 years ago at the age of 37, today would be 70 years old in the name of his beliefs. Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko was born in the village of Okopy on 14 September 1947. He was the son of Marianna and Władysław, who ran the farm. From 1954 he studied at the school in Suchowola, and in the local church he was an altar boy. Shortly after his graduation, he joined the seminary of the priest of St. St. John the Baptist in Warsaw. After the rise of the Solidarity Fr. Popielusz became her spiritual leader. He was a pastor of people at work, as well as health care. For several years, various operational activities have been carried out against him. There was a campaign of slander, which was aimed at by Jerzy Urban. There was also pressure on the episcopate to move a priest from Warsaw to some other small parish or - preferably - to be sent to the Vatican to study. After the introduction of martial law, the clergyman served every month in the church of St. St. Stanisław Kostka in Żoliborz Mass for her homeland. Thousands of people were gathering on them. Fr. Popieluszko had the courage to tell the truth about the man and system who enslaved him. He was brutally murdered by communist orphans of the Polish People's Republic and Soviet Special Forces. Before he died tortured, he died in torments, then - bound by a rope - he was thrown into the trunk of a business car, transported to the Italian dam and thrown into the water. His life was taken from him on October 19, 1984. His oppressors are already at large. The longest sentence was 15 years. Not all organizers of this beastly crime have reached the hand of justice. They lived peacefully for the rest of their lives. Funeral Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko in Warsaw gathered thousands of crowds and turned into a great manifestation. There were banners everywhere - then delegated - of Solidarity. People came from all over Poland to the church in Żoliborz in Warsaw and watched there day and night. The priest was buried at the church of Stanisław Kostka, where he was a vicar. This place is still the goal of numerous pilgrimages. According to the parish records, 24 million people visited the grave of Fr. George. They prayed with him, among others. Pope John Paul II, Pope Benedict XVI, cardinals and bishops from all over the world. Ladies and gentlemen, today I would like to remind you of a few words from Fr. George: Accepting suffering voluntarily for another person is more than just suffering. Only free people can make that decision. Life has to live properly because there's only one thing to live for. To preserve man's dignity is to remain free even with external slavery. To remain ourselves - to live in the truth - is a minimum, so as not to erase the image of God's child. They're invisible prisons, there's a lot of them. There are prisons where people are born, grow and die. There are prisons of systems and systems. These prisons not only destroy the bodies, but reach further, reach the soul, reach deep true freedom. How true these words are to this day. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u429	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Maciejewski, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u430	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, I mean September 14th this year, B. Fr. George Popieluszko, if he were alive, he'd be celebrating his 70th birthday. The man who died for his faith. For his whole life walking to holiness, sharing it with everyone. For the fact that in every word of his teaching he courageously and with full conviction pointed to Christ and the Gospel. Seeing evil everywhere, he chose the right way to fight it - the good, regardless of the danger he was facing. Today, when we call to our memory the figure of the Blessed One. Fr. Jerzy Popieluszka, we immediately hear his wonderful words as the main signpost of this road. For he said, "Do not let evil overcome you, but conquer evil with good." I think that the vast majority of decent people feel the same way, but they also know how difficult it is to walk this way. Knowing our weaknesses, he tried in his homily to draw our attention to the dignity of a man who is the gift of the dignity of God's child, and it is up to us to report this gift to the very end of our way of life. He fought for our consciences because, as he emphasized, he spoke under the statue of Fr. Jerzy in Suchowola Jan Józef Kasprzyk, head of the office for veterans, was the heir of the beautiful tradition of chaplains, who were always where Polish hearts beat. He was the heir to the beautiful tradition of o. Augustine Kordecki, Fr. Stanisław Brzóski or Fr. Ignacy Shells. Sleep. The Primate of the Millennium Stefan Wyszyński compared today's anniversary with the Blessed Virgin Mary. Fr. Jerzy Popieluszka to the most outstanding general of the January Uprising Romuald Traugutt, who taught us to bind the love of our homeland with the love of God, who wanted to build the future of his free homeland on the basis of the purity of customs and unblemished virtue, not on self-reliantness and demoralization, who wanted to rebuild the homeland based on the order of Christian love, respect for law and all justice. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Uh-huh. Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko said of himself that only unlimited confidence in providence and firm faith in the holiness of our cause gave me strength and courage. He knew that Moscow understood that with Catholic Poland it could not manage, and therefore the greatest rage was directed and still directed at Polish spiritual shepherds. He argued that it is the duty of the Polish people to live in truth and justice, in freedom and love, because it is not enough to be born human, it is still necessary to be human. I think the above values passed to us by the Blessed One. Fr. George should always be the basis for building our future. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Uh-huh. Fr. George Popieluszko knew that the truth cost a lot, but it liberates. Therefore, it is worth saying the truth when others are silent, expressing love and respect when others sow hatred, silence when others speak, pray when others curse, help when others do not want to do it, forgive when others cannot. Thanking him for his beautiful attitude today, on his 70th birthday, let us pray that he is canonized as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u431	Thank you, sir. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club, made a written statement. Therefore, Mr Waldemar Andzel, this time a statement not in writing, but read, a club of law and justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u432	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 14 September this year, which is today, there are 70. anniversary of the birth of Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko, blessed Catholic Church, murdered by security officers. Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko was born on 14 September 1947 in the village of Okopy, near Suchowola, where he graduated from primary school and high school. There, as an altar boy, he was associated with the parish ministry. After obtaining the certificate of maturity, he joined a seminary in Warsaw. In 1972 he received priestly ordinations from the Primate of Poland. Card. Stefan Wyszyński. After the ordination he was sent as a vicar to the parish in Ząbki near Warsaw. During the strikes in 1981, he was sent to perform Masses in Huta Warszawa, then in a state of war in the church of St. Stanisława Kostka organized Masses for his homeland. He has repeatedly been accused of being involved in political activities. For this reason, it became the objective of SB's operational activities. In December 1983, he was interrogated and a criminal investigation was initiated against him. Because of the harassment and pressure of the authorities, Primate Józef Glemp proposed Fr. Jerzy Popieluszka went to study in Rome, but the priest refused. On 19 October 1984, he arrived at the parish of St. Holy Polish Martyr Brothers in Bydgoszcz, where he celebrated Mass of St. for people who work. Returning to Warsaw together with his driver Waldemar Chrostowski, he was abducted by the officers of the independent Group of the Department IV of the Ministry of Internal Affairs dealing with the fight against the Catholic Church. The drivers managed to escape, and the priest was bound and held in the trunk. On October 30th, his body was fished from the Vistula reservoir near Włocławek. The priest's hands were bound, and the body was loaded with a sack full of stones. The autopsy showed signs of torture. Killing and revealing the truth about Fr. Imperial shock and social outrage. The funeral gathered huge crowds and turned into a great manifestation. 13 October 2009 in connection with the 25th anniversary of the death of Fr. Jerzy Popiełuszko was posthumously decorated by the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński as the Order of the White Eagle. In 2001 the beatification process ended on 6 June 2010 in Warsaw, where the Mass was held, presided over by Archbishop Angelo Amato. The Archbishop, on behalf of Pope Benedict XVI, read the beatification act. Martyrdom Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko is a loud cry of love confirmed by the price of bloodshed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u433	Thank you, sir. Mr Jerzy Paul, the Law and Justice Club, another statement. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u434	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Created since 1937, on the initiative of Minister Eugeniusz Kwiatkowski, the Central Industrial District was intended to increase the economic potential of the country, develop heavy and armed industries and reduce unemployment caused by the effects of the great crisis from the 20s. 20th century In the centre of Poland there were established large centres of heavy, machine and chemical industries. This year we celebrate the 80th anniversary of the beginnings of this so-called. an economic miracle. The location of COP between Warsaw, Cracow and Lviv was due to many factors. COP covered areas of former voivodships: Kielce, Tarnobrzeg, Tarnowski, Rzeszowski and partly Radom, Kraków and Lublin, in total - approx. 60 thousand. km2. This area was inhabited by over 5600 thousand. people, of which more than 80% They were inhabitants of poor, overcrowded villages. COP's investments were accompanied by the development of communication and energy infrastructure, among others. in sandy, forest-covered areas separated from several villages, modern plants were built, steel factory and chemical plants in Nowa Sarzyna, which, together with their residential estates, completely changed the lives of thousands of people. In early September this year. the central celebration of the 80th anniversary of the COP was held in Stalowa Wola. During this ceremony, the town and municipality of Nowa Sarzyna presented their achievements, the city of which the entire post-war development was closely connected with local chemical plants. Joint investments of municipalities and chemical plants in the fields of culture, science and sport have permanently entered the landscape. After changes in the factory's structure, many companies were created, such as Ciech Sarzyna, Polenergia Elektrociepłownia Nowa Sarzyna, Zakład Chemiczny Silicony Polskie, Wod Rem, Chemrem, Budorg, NS Automation, El-Chem and others, still cooperate with local government on many levels of economic and social life. High Izbo! The remaining plants and urban planning of cities after the Central Industrial District are today a memorial of Polish architects and engineers of the interwar period, construction work and thousands of people without whom the industrial district would never have been established. I appeal to the High House to give a witness not only on the occasion of the following anniversaries, of the importance of this biggest investment project of the Second Republic. I hope that the government will continue to build the economic power of Poland on plants created within the Central Industrial District. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u435	Thank you very much. Mrs Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko, I don't see a Member. Therefore, Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u436	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Blessed Fr. George Popieluszko would be 70 today. A great priest, we know his tragic resume. There are significant dates in our nation's history. On 13 May 1971 Alfonso Popieluszko changed his name to Jerzy Alexander. On 13 May 1981, an assassination of John Paul was carried out II. On 13 December 1981, an assassination of the Polish people was carried out. There is a hidden meaning in this date, because there is a Holy Mother of Fatima in it. Uh-huh. Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko was ordained priest at the hands of another, experienced in the repression of the priest - the Primate of Cardinals. Stefan Wyszyński. He worked in Ząbki near Warsaw, then in Anina, finally in the academic church of St. Anna in Warsaw and St. Stanisław Kostka. He was a pastor of the medical community. In the spring of 1974 he was dealt with by Pion IV KP MO in Volomin. On 30 June 1975, the file of the candidate for TW SB founded Fr. Jerzy Popiełuszka was transferred by Pion IV of KPMO in Wołomin to Department IV of KS MO. It was removed from the records with annotation: due to a lack of cooperation. Since August 1980, he has been associated with working environments and supported Solidarity. He celebrated Masses, among others. in Huta Warszawa. After the introduction of martial law, he organized an interned aid operation and their families. With salt in the eye of the authorities and the Security Service they were organized by him in the church of St. Stanisława Kostka Holy Mass for her homeland. The faithful one was the words of St. John Paul II : Do not let evil conquer you, but conquer evil with good. The courageous and steadfast one enjoyed great authority among the faithful. The authorities feared his sermons, his words, they found them critical and opposed to the communist system. During the martial law he was repeatedly accused by the authorities of the Polish People's Republic of Poland of involvement in political activities. Homeland Security has taken action. Surrounded by agents, he was called in for questioning and informed of the initiation of an investigation. He was facing 10 years in prison. After all, he was ordered to search, exposed explosives, flyers, and machine guns to TV cameras. The media chase has begun. In October 1984, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 He was kidnapped, tortured, and finally thrown from the barrier from a height of several meters into the water. The murderers were SB officers. On 30 October 1984, his body was fished from the Vistula reservoir near Włocławek. Martyrdom Fr. George was moved by many. In 2010, it was announced to the blessed Catholic Church. It's 70 today. The anniversary of the priest's birth, which crushed his conscience, aroused opposition and confused the peace of those who did not want to hear that the world should rule the good. We are in such a place of history, that the question of the rightness of the power apparatus of the Polish People's Republic should not take place. Meanwhile, Communist propaganda has won. In defense of an officer of the criminal authorities from the 1950s, there are indoctrinated people. I must stress that the present Silesian voivode Jarosław Wieczorek asked the public a question, I hope, rhetorically. Would they have put Fr. Jerzy Popieluszka, blessed, or the one who served cruelly in the methods of Silesian authority used? We know a lot of characters, we know people who have done a lot of harm to our people. Just be as good as bread and act so as to extract from yourself, from others what is best. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Hello and glory to the hero. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u437	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mosiński, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u438	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! September is the month of European Heritage Days. This year we celebrate the 25th anniversary of these days. For the 25th time in Europe there are many conferences about how to take care of cultural heritage, material heritage, in terms of architecture, construction, and intangible heritage, in terms of faith, tradition, etc. On 7 September, I had the privilege of attending the 8th International Scientific Conference in Kalisz. The cultural heritage - protection, memory, international cooperation, which took place at the Faculty of Pedagogical and Artistic Studies of Adam Mickiewicz University in Poznań, is located in Kalisz. When I spoke, I asked the question of which direction we were going. In the direction of alienation from universal Christian values, from what we inherit from our ancestors, from alienation from our national identity, or will we choose the path of continuation, i.e. the care of generations, the care for cultural, material and intangible heritage, as well as the care for our imponderabilies? Poland grew more than a thousand years ago, this year 1051th anniversary, from Christian universalism, which strengthened us with national pride and a sense of identity. As no other country has experienced Poland being removed from the maps of the world by treachery of marketers and partitions and cruelty of wars, First and Second World Wars, German death camps. The conference site wasn't random. High Izbo, Kalisz is a multicultural city, surrounded by Prosna's arms, is a community. Here we live in the climate of Catholic, Orthodox and Jewish faith. I noticed during this conference that it is our responsibility, I mean scientists, to promote our heritage and identity of many formats. Every nation, or Ukrainians, Russians, Germans, French or us, Poles, we have our spirit, our identity. Let us talk about this, let us conduct scientific research, let us not fight as nations, and first of all let us pass on to the young generation what results from the national heritage of each country, each nation, because in every cultural heritage there are huge decks of good. I thank the organizers of this international conference, the university authorities, my university, and in a special way Dr. Samantha Kowalska. It was a conference needed at a time when we observe terrorist attacks, attacks on national goods, destruction of monuments, attacks on cultural goods, when you destroy the decks of good, art and beauty. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u439	You're welcome. The last statement will be made by Mr Paweł Chezernaker, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u440	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! From this point I would like to thank the inhabitants of Koszalin, the Central Pomerania, who have fought for years to begin their life path for the Central Pomerania, the S11 expressway. In July, the Government of Law and Justice included funds for the first most important part of Koszalin - Bobolice section for the construction of national roads and motorways. The plan also included the start of preparatory work for the construction of further sections towards Piła and Poznań. From this point of view, I would like to thank Mr Czesław Hoc, who was the initiator of the parliamentary panel for the previous term. construction of the S11 road. I would like to thank Mrs Małgorzata Golińska, who has been very supportive of this initiative, very much. Finally, I would like to thank Prime Minister Beata Szydło, Minister Andrzej Adamczyk. The Prime Minister visited Koszalin during the election campaign and promised that if Law and Justice wins, they would build this road. And today the way of life for the Central Pomerania will be built through the decision of the Government of Law and Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-14-sejm-47-3.u441	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 15 September 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 20 min 32]]
