ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u1	Resume session. You're welcome... the secretaries are here. Ladies and gentlemen, before returning to the second point, I would like to remind you that today, a break will be ordered from 11 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. During it will be held a parliamentary fee meeting and, at 12.00, the opening of the exhibition "Jubilee" of the three hundredth anniversary of the coronation of the painting of Our Lady of Jasna Góra. At the same time, I would like to inform you that there will be no earlier scheduled break from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. today. Ladies and gentlemen, we are returning to the second agenda: the Supreme Court Act. I would remind you that before the session was adjourned, the senators asked questions to the president's representatives. You're the minister, right? The Minister or the Minister will be... [[Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: I.]] Minister. Are there any questions? Who wants to ask you a question? Senator Augustine. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u2	Minister, I'm still asking for an emergency complaint. It can be brought by the Attorney General, the Ombudsman and the President of the Prosecutor General, the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child, the Head of the Financial Supervision Commission, the Ombudsman of the Patients' Rights In terms of its characteristics. I would like to ask if you have identified in the impact assessment the need of these institutions for employment, for resources and whether the President has asked 'Cause it's a procedated budget. To increase the resources for these institutions. I'm just talking about the scale of what you expect in an emergency complaint. [[Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: Dear Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u3	No, Minister, I'm sorry. Are there any more questions? Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u4	Minister, why do you foresee the possibility of bringing forward final judgments in the form of a complaint since 1997? Why this date: 1997?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u5	Thank you. And Mr. Senator Libicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u6	Thank you. Minister, it is usually the case when we, as parliamentarians, are confronted with the problem of judicial matters that people are coming, who are complaining mainly about the length of proceedings. And my question is this: do you not think that it is the complaints of those who wish to take advantage of this emergency complaint that there will simply be a certain congestion? I know that these are a little bit of two different things, the usual procedure, the standard procedure and the procedure, and that this is going to be a bit of a separate procedure and a separate situation. But aren't you afraid that these complaints are just gonna be so much that this body is just gonna be inefficient? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u7	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u8	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! With regard to the first question, Senator Augustin, of course, these competences have been conferred on those entities which are indicated in the provision of the article. 89, just as you correctly quoted the senator. This is not the case with regard to the specifics of the activities of these institutions, typical things, because today such powers, as regards exceptional remedies of the type of cassation, cancellation, are also attributed to qualified entities such as the Attorney General or the Ombudsman. Thus, of course, it falls within the specific nature of the activities of these institutions, insofar as the relevant services are prepared to carry out appropriate analyses at the highest legal level and prepare a pleading, such as an emergency complaint, or to bring about an emergency complaint. As the senator knows perfectly well, there are no such analyses or combinations that would indicate this burden. However, I am also confident about the initiative of the High House and the initiative of the Sejm. The State will certainly be able to take appropriate action as the legitimate entities signal their needs, so that, in the organisational or financial sphere, the exercise of the powers associated with the assignment of an emergency complaint to these entities is ensured. I'd look at it from the perspective of the beneficiaries. And the beneficiaries of these legal solutions are simply victims, they are members of society, they are all those who will refer to the courts in these cases. I believe it is necessary and desirable. I trust that all these organs that are indicated here will be able to do so efficiently. As far as the Marshal's question is concerned, yesterday, Minister Anna Surówka-Pasek also spoke about it. The determination of this deadline is the date of entry into force of the 1997 Constitution. It was adopted on 2 April 1997 and entered into force on 17 October 1997. As the first condition in Article. 89 §1 (1) we mention such facts: the judgment infringes the principles or freedoms and rights of man and citizen set out in the Constitution. It is all about the achievements of doctrine, science, law, all the achievements of case law, the caselaw of the Constitutional Tribunal, case law from the perspective of pro-constitutional interpretation. This is an acquis to which we also refer, saying that this period is de facto the period of the 1997 Constitution. There is a transitional period. During this time, during these 3 years, you will be able to bring such complaints. We are counting on this to be a tool to verify obvious judicial errors in the first place. So a little bit about what I just said, I'll add, it seems at first glance It is clear that it is the prosecutor general and the Ombudsman who will have the legal instrument to say this: with regard to this fact and this determination, that the solution to the emergency complaint should be applied here. And these actions will also be taken against those final judgments which have been issued in the past. This cesuria is constitutional. As for the question of Senator Libicki as to the length of the proceedings, here is full agreement. All studies, also quoted in this Chamber of the CBOS study, indicate that in the sense of Poles this is the main problem related to the functioning of the justice system. It's this kind of situation. I also said yesterday, before midnight, that we are looking at an emergency complaint, the very fact of introducing such a tool into the system as a disciplinary fact. There have been such situations so far that they have collapsed, e.g. at the level of the court of appeal, judgments that were completely out of the case-law, judgments that were totally typical, sometimes not even particularly justified. There's a different kind of situation today. The fact that the eligible entities will potentially be able to bring an emergency complaint is, of course, if the law becomes the applicable law, in my opinion it will act disciplinaryly on the whole justice system. The indirect effect, in my opinion, will also be the impact of more efficient judicial proceedings. I think this will be felt by reducing the phenomenon of the chronicity of proceedings, although I am convinced that these elements of the reform... As Minister Surówka-Pasek has rightly said, we begin this reform with the foundation. We want to start with the issue of changes concerning the functioning of the National Judicial Council, from the level of the Supreme Court, but these elements related to the length of proceedings... This was, moreover, the subject of case law, as also mentioned by the Ombudsman of the ECHR, as well as the subject of numerous statements by the representatives of the doctrine, as regards this legal institution, which is the complaint for the length of proceedings, and the issue of its practical application. My point is that the broad-based reform of justice certainly also addresses this issue, and these provisions of the Supreme Court Act in some sense correspond to this. I believe that the implementation of these provisions will have positive effects in terms of reducing the phenomenon of chronicity, but this also requires further legislative work, further detailed legal solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u9	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u10	Minister, is the fact that this complaint covers the period since 1997, however, not related to the fact that until 1997 there was still a rule from the Polish People's Republic, the rule of emergency revision? Any sentence could have been touched by an emergency review. If I'm wrong, I'd ask you to inform me because I'm not a specialist. Until when this extraordinary review was in force, i.e. until when an emergency review could be carried out.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u11	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. That doesn't apply to the bill at all. I'm overruled. I'd like to ask you another question. [[It does, Mr. Marshal.]] Not applicable. [[Applies, applies.]] Senator Augustine. [[It does.]] Not applicable, Mr. Marshal. Unless the Minister wants to answer, you're welcome. But I don't think he's responding. [[Now, Mr. Marshal...]] You're welcome. It's okay to ask... [[Mr. Marshal!]] I didn't give you the floor. Mr. Augustine is asking a question. There you go. [[My question concerns this bill.]] Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal, I have not given you the floor. [[Don't limit me to my authority.]] Don't speak when I'm not giving it to you. It's in the rules. I just dropped the question. The Minister may answer them, but I'm overruled. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u12	In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 86 §1 states that an additional measure will be used if the rule of law and social justice are to be ensured together. Tell me, not me. I don't want you to educate me here. It's just... [[Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: With pleasure, Mr. Senator.]] I'm happy to learn, too. Of course, that's why we're here to uphold the law, so we're learning. But the point is to explain. In doctrine, according to many excellent lawyers, there is no such explanation What does the rule of law and social justice mean? There are no such definitions, of course understood together.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u13	Senator Blackbay. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u14	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I don't think the night is good for conversation. It'll be easier to communicate in the morning. Minister, I'm going back to my question. Tell me, Mr. Minister, as you can see, he knows the bill very well and has experience in this area. In the absence of 30 judges in the Supreme Court and the need for posting, will the judges who work in the Ministry of Justice, on the basis of this law, be able to be posted to the Supreme Court? And the most important question. In the process of posting, if possible, will the President have any prerogatives, or will this be the sole prerogatives of the Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u15	Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u16	Thank you very much. Minister, thank you for the previous answer, because I wanted to ask you that too. However, it seems to me that you have responded a little bit to my question, although you have raised another important point, because the length of the procedure is indeed a very serious problem. My question was whether you were concerned that an emergency complaint would be abused in some way. You give them, for example. The Ombudsman's right to such a complaint. Aren't you afraid that he will now be flooded with the demands of the various people who believe that their judgments were wrong to make a request to reconsider the judgment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u17	Thank you very much. I get the feeling the last two questions have already been answered. Maybe they weren't meant to be, but they were about the same thing. You can ask the same question all the time. I'm surprised you don't listen to the answer. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u18	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards the issue of time-limits, I maintain my response. By the way, a little outside of the case, I can say that many lawyers have raised the need for a legal solution which would not be formulated in the same way as an emergency review, and would refer to the possibility of greater repressation of final decisions than in exceptional appeal measures, as has been the case so far. As regards the question of Article. 89 and the grounds, I'll remind you that the rule of the article. The 2 constitution, which is quoted here very often, is not quoted in the full formula. Rzeczpospolita Poland is a democratic legal state that implements the principles of social justice. It's a constitutional concept, with an art. 2 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. As we have pointed out in the justification for this project, it is precisely the same draft law on the Supreme Court that is also intended to serve this purpose of social justice, as in general, that is the constitution. So the concept of social justice is absolutely part of today's studies, views of doctrine, case law. Moreover, referring to these two concepts and the rule of law and social justice, the extensive literature of the subject refers to the understanding of these concepts in the language of legal texts, in the legal language, and in the content that fills them. As far as issues relating to the posting of judges are concerned, I answered that question yesterday, and it appears for the third time. The Act directly provides Well, I don't suppose the senators of the bill didn't read, so I don't want to appeal to the content that's right in front of you. That, of course, is the possibility of such a delegation. And as for the issues related to this criterion, we point out that it is the case that prominent judges, people with a scientific degree, and sometimes even with a scientific title, because this also happens in the case of young people, rule at this basic level in the court of first instance. And it's like, by looking at the scale of it, Because we have a rule of law that states that at least 120 judges will be in the Supreme Court, I have spoken about it, also in the course of our earlier work... There is no doubt to me that we can establish such a number of the most outstanding judges who may be posted to the Supreme Court and who are absolutely predisposed to it, so that, as part of the delegation, their legal powers to an even higher level under the supervision of experts and masters raise. As regards the question of Article. 89 of Senator Libicki's second question, this is, of course, a filter of this kind, that these are eligible entities according to their competence and will carry out this analysis according to their experience. I, following the principles of logical reasoning, take the assumption that at the first moment it will be such a tool to remove, as I said, obvious judicial errors. So after an analysis, any lawyer will be able to say, yes, of course, it is justified, I suggest, for example. Mr Spokesman, the Ombudsman's Office has issued an emergency complaint. I will also point out that today, a common practice is that when we are dealing with e.g. with a cassation complaint and there is no basis for it, whether the party is entitled to see it, the proxy or the party on its own behalf, shall send to the Ombudsman such a letter in which he calls on the Ombudsman to bring that cassation action. Same goes for the Attorney General. More, they hit thousands of cases. This is also our experience with the Legal Assistance Intervention Office, is correspondence which is still being analysed, processed, where despite the fact that no legal measure is entitled, such a request for a certain intervention or action is indicated by the parties. I think it's just at a certain limit to the number of cases being conducted and the final decisions that are going down... But just our experience with the Legal Assistance Intervention Office, which is a continuation so-called. Dudapocje, the President's initiative in the referendum campaign, was one of the basics... [[Not a referenda...]] ...sorry, from the presidential campaign. This is Mr. Marshal me... excuse me, I, as proxy for referendums, live all the time also with a campaign to change the constitution... And this matter, our experience or experience of the Minister Zofia Romaszewska, the experience of the Legal Assistance Intervention Office or the experience of many lawyers... Yesterday we were referring to the experience of Senator Staron, referring to the experience of Judge Wojciechowski. There were situations where letters were influential, the lawyer analyzed, said that, of course, it was illegal or, of course, it would have to be intervened. Moreover, yesterday, Senator rapporteur on the occasion of the KRS Act, Senator Ambrozik, spoke about this as well, that this kind of situation is personally known to him. And we are saying today: there is a legal measure, there is an adequate legal measure, there is an emergency complaint. This is intended to serve a broad sense of sanity, to restore confidence in the courts, to restore confidence in the justice system. I am an optimist when it comes to the functioning of this legal measure in practice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u19	Thank you very much. Senator Komarnicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u20	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, my question goes to the election of the first President of the Supreme Court. In fact, he will no longer be elected from his group at the moment and point to the Supreme Court, only he will indicate as many as five candidates from whom the President will elect his representative. How is it possible that you want the president to elect the first president of the Supreme Court from such a large group? And don't you think it's possible, Minister, that there is a far-reaching interference between one authority and the other?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u21	Thank you very much. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u22	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the ruling of the disciplinary court at first instance shall be subject to appeal. That appeal should be considered within a period of one month. Now in this amendment, you change this deadline from one month to two months. Why are you changing it from month to month? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u23	Thank you very much. Who else? Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u24	Minister, you are designing that, in the event of an emergency complaint, it will be an obligation for the Supreme Court to ask the Constitutional Court if the Supreme Court considers that the cause of the infringement by the ruling of human rights and freedoms and of the citizens declared in the Constitution... However, so far, the courts have been able to apply a dispersed constitutional review of the law and in certain cases it was not necessary to refer the case to the Constitutional Court if the case-law so far shows that the provision applied in the case is clearly incompatible with the Constitution. I'm going to ask you a question. The question is: will these new rules, in some form, limit the possibility of a scattered control of the constitutionality of the law?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u25	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u26	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senators, as far as your questions are concerned, I will first say that we have a rule that makes it very clear: the General Assembly of Supreme Court Judges elects candidates for the position of First President of the Supreme Court from the judges of the Supreme Court in active state. Thus, this element of action or the activity of the judges themselves and of the general assembly cannot be ignored. As far as vocation issues are concerned, I do not see any infringement here. It is precisely that in this case we are dealing with the activity of the President of the Republic of Poland, is an adequate, accurate and justified solution. Such power of the head of state to act before the Supreme Court is justified. It is pointed out that if these powers, which the Minister of Justice has under common courts, were to be modelled in the case of the Supreme Court, we would be faced with an inadequate and inadequate situation. It's all right here, all right and according to the rules of art. I have no doubt about this regulation. With regard to matters relating to disciplinary proceedings, the Act sets out the periods in question so that it is appropriate to be able to identify the case fairly. Regarding issues related to the efficiency of the procedure, here such an important novel is the issue of introducing jurors to the Supreme Court, as well as the indication that at first instance we have 2 professional judges and 1 juror, in second instance we have 3 judges of the Disciplinary Chamber and 2 jurors. And here we are dealing with the formulation of this regulation in a way that is intended to enable the best possible conduct of these proceedings. As far as the legal question is concerned, of course no one changes the wording of the article. 193 of the Constitution The Republic of Poland. This provision provides that any court may present a legal question to the Constitutional Court as to the compatibility of a normative act with the Constitution, ratified international agreements or a law if the answer to a legal question depends on the settlement of a case pending before the court. In the course of her seym work, Minister Anna Surówka-Pasek explained extensively that there was no contradiction here. It must be argued in such terms that if the situation is related to the cognition of the Constitutional Tribunal as expressed in the wording of the Article. 188 constitutions, this court must address a legal question. As far as issues related to the dispersed constitutional control are concerned, we are talking about acts of sub-level, we are not talking about laws. And if there is a question of this kind that the matter relates to the law, then a legal question will be asked, if it is necessary in this respect, as provided for by the law and the constitution. It makes it necessary to refer the competent court to the Constitutional Court in an audit procedure which is competently assigned to the Constitutional Court. We're pointing out that last night, Minister Anna Surówka-Pasek explained extensively. The fact that, following certain solutions, German and other solutions that are applied in other European countries' systems, we are today supplementing the constitutional complaint in that the emergency complaint is a complementary tool from the perspective of the judgment, not the question of conflicting standards in the hierarchical system of legal acts or the issue of mapping, as is the case with this review which the Constitutional Tribunal is carrying out in order to establish the compatibility of international laws and agreements with the Constitution. This regulation is a regulation from the perspective of the complainant, it is a regulation from the perspective of the person asking for assistance, by the eligible entities it is induced. And as for the issues related to the mode that has been indicated, we see here the full consequence. If the judgment violates the principles or freedoms and human and civil rights set out in the Constitution, the decision shall take place at the level of the ruling before the Supreme Court. If there is such a situation that there is doubt as to whether there is a basis for referring to the Constitutional Tribunal, then in accordance with Article. 193 of the Constitution and in accordance with the provisions indicated, if the Supreme Court considers that the infringement by a ruling of principles or freedoms is caused by non-compliance with the Constitution, it shall raise a legal question to the Constitutional Tribunal. This regulation in this respect is fully consistent, consistent and only in a way negates issues connected with the fact that... As a general rule, it is so that this procedure should be applied by every court, but this finds a binding in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u27	Thank you very much, Minister. I don't see any more calls, so thank you... Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u28	Minister, this constitutional complaint can be filed by the prosecutor and the spokespersons. [[Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: An emergency complaint, right?]] Yes, an emergency complaint. Yes. [[Extraordinary, not...]] I'm sorry, not constitutional, but extraordinary, of course. Through, right? Through the prosecutor and the spokesperson. [[Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: There have been probably three times...]] Tell me, why wasn't the President's Office included in the bill? After all, the President's Office... You have the Legal Assistance Intervention Office, which is an institution specialized in this matter. Why didn't you admit it?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u29	Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u30	Mr. Marshal! This would not be an appropriate solution. It is difficult to assign this kind of competence to the President of the Republic of Poland, which, as you have pointed out just now, also in your questions. It has certain powers under the Supreme Court Act. It is difficult for a President with specific powers to be the subject of an emergency complaint at the same time. Besides, I'd... However, it is important to distinguish between those who are currently generating it. The President does not have the authority to file a cassation complaint, to file a cassation complaint, to file a complaint for the legality of a final decision. No one's ever had the idea of giving the president that kind of authority. It would be completely asystemic and inappropriate to give the President the power to bring an emergency complaint. However, as I said, the experience of the Legal Assistance Intervention Office and the fact that almost 40,000 cases have been brought to the President since the beginning of his term of office. As part of the work of this office, of which more than 16 thousand are directly linked to faulty, according to the complainants, decisions or defective functioning of the justice system, all this was the basis for determining that such an institution is needed. In turn, the catalogue of entities has been identified in line with the legal provisions, the current formulation of procedures and the characteristics of the entities identified here. I do not accept the relevance of this request and I have no doubt here that it would not be appropriate to extend this list to the President of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u31	Thank you very much. I don't see any more questions to ask. Thank you... Senator Augustine. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u32	When we left late last night, I told the Minister, I warned you that I would ask this question again, because the Minister, in support of you here yesterday, did not really answer my important question. Because speaking of the unconstitutionality of certain solutions, the Minister said that, in fact, because there is a presumption of constitutionality, the President's prerogatives could be extended by law. I, of course, brought this to absurdity by setting an example. And the Minister referred to an example, not a substance. [[Because she didn't want to.]] I would like the Minister to refer to the merits. 'Cause if there really was a possibility, Of course, with regard to the other powers of the President, it is known that not in isolation from reality It would be possible for any law to extend the powers of the President, since there is a presumption of constitutionality of the Act, until the Court finds it unconstitutional. We turn around here, so to speak, in a spelled circle, which is why I would ask you to extend this explanation.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u33	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u34	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'll apologize to you if that's the question. There was a lot of questions, but I didn't hear anyone ask the likes. That's a question about disciplinary action. What's it gonna look like? I'm asking because I'm having some doubts. The judges in disciplinary proceedings concerning judges and lawyers, legal advisers will be elected by Minister Ziobro. The Disciplinary Ombudsman will also be elected by Minister Ziobro. [[Minister of Justice.]] Judgments can be delivered by default and without a defender, that is, a person who is blamed, will not have the opportunity to present arguments in his defense even if he justifies his absence, even in a situation where the defender does not appear, justified by reason of... Well, there are different circumstances. Do you want such a principle from this process I think it's unfair to extend it to the entire justice system? That's my question. [[It doesn't matter.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u35	Thank you. Who else would like to ask you a question? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u36	Dear Minister, how much do you think such complaints can affect in the first period? [[And with what accuracy? Up to a thousand...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u37	Thank you very much. [[A few dozen? A few hundred thousand?]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u38	As far as Senator Augustine's question is concerned, it's probably the third time. Minister Anna Surówka-Pasek gave a very precise answer. I'm sorry, Mr. Senator, but I'm not in a position to deal with matters relating to the senator's assessment of the answers... I'm sending the senator back to the information that was provided yesterday by the Minister. As for the question of whether the principle of an unfair trial... Let me put it this way: Mr. Senator, with all due respect, I do not see any principle of unfair trial in the Supreme Court Act. That question, as far as this phrase is concerned, contains a false thesis. Disciplinary action shall be adequately regulated. We have provided detailed explanations in this regard. And your Marshal's question. Even if one emergency complaint was to be identified concerning a case in which someone was harmed and there was a grossly unfair judgment, that is the point of introducing this legal instrument. We have no doubt that there may be thousands of such cases. We believe that this selection will be carried out by competent authorities when it comes to bringing out this measure. I also have full conviction from the perspective of my 10-year provision of free legal assistance, as well as from my experience in public activities, but also from the entire source of experience absent at the moment from the Minister Zofia Romaszewska and from the Minister Anna Surówka-Pasek, the experience of lawyers who focused on this issue on the work of the President's Office, that this is a legal tool which provides the basis for this appeal in cases where there was no such possibility before. If this is the case, we will be thinking about modifying the rules accordingly. Statistics will be built by the legal entities of the Ombudsman, the Attorney General. And to these subjects, Mr. Marshal may speak after the bill enters into force. Oh, my God. Quickly. If it wants to monitor on an ongoing basis how many such cases occur and how many such legal measures are in practice derived. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u39	Thank you very much, Minister. There's no more... Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applause]] [[Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: Thank you very much.]] [[Marshal Borusewicz...]] Excuse me? Another question, Mr. Marshal? [[Well, yeah, you can do that by morning.]] [[Tiredness...]] But, Mr. Marshal, if the questions are... I'll just tell you... [[Yeah, one more question. I have a question.]] ...that if the questions are repeated, then I'll just repeal them. That's it. You're welcome. [[Mr. Marshal...]] But if three or four times or five times are the same... I'm gonna take those questions away. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal... [[Mr. Marshal, the senator has a right to ask.]] He has the right, sir. Just don't let him ask... [[Questions are to concern, in accordance with the regulations, the subject matter of the law. There is no prohibition in the Rules of Procedure to modify questions or repeat questions.]] Mr. Marshal, ask the question, not interpret the rules. That's what the marshal is for. If such a question has already been asked, I will remove it. That's all I can say. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u40	You said that a few thousand such conclusions could affect you. At the moment, there are about 7,000 citizens in arrests and prisons... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[More, more.]] Don't you think those in prison are gonna make that kind of motion? [[Seventy thousand...]] [[Yeah, 70.]] Oh, sorry, $70,000. Yeah, I was wrong about one zero. [[Yeah, just.]] [[What kind of question is that?]] Will those who are in prison not proceed with such conclusions?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u41	No, that question, Mr. Marshal, it's really... [[Mr. Marshal...]] You may not answer that question. You're welcome. [[Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: Thank you very much...]] [[Mr. Marshal, this question concerns this bill...]] The question may be asked, but nowhere in the Rules of Procedure is it written that the person who is called to answer must answer. Thank you very much. [[Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: The third time just...]] [[No, no...]] This is the fourth time you've asked the same question. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal...]] I'm sorry, but... [[...you're restricting my ability...]] No, I'm not. [[...senatorial.]] You have the opportunity... [[You're restricting my rights.]] You're a free man like all of us, Mr. Marshal. [[You're not the king, you're the first of the senators.]] [[Piece of cake.]] Mr. Marshal, I'm taking your voice away from you, and I'm sorry, because you're commenting on my behavior completely unnecessary at the moment. And I'm calling you back to order so that we can really be on the right track. It's like... That's my job. I'm asking you to be reasonable, too. Thank you again very much, Minister. Now a representative of the Supreme Court wishes to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u42	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, senators! I would like to thank you for inviting the representative of the Supreme Court to this debate today. It is always a really great honor for me to appear before the High House, even when it is preceded by a dozen hours of waiting. Such a reality of work is also in the Senate. Then I have two brief notes. In my own way, I will procedurally describe this spontaneous speech, i.e. within the fundamental part that I am presenting, I will try to speak succinctly and exclusively about matters that I consider absolutely crucial. I will move the details to the question stage if, of course, you consider it appropriate to ask any questions. But as I watched the debate, I saw that you were very active in asking questions. And second preliminary remark. Although we are talking about judicial laws, i.e. legal issues, I will try to speak not legal or legal language, only a language that will be understood also by doctors, engineers, nurses, shipbuilders, plumbers, i.e., broadly speaking, for all citizens, because by legal or legal language, I understand, we will be able to discuss in the question phase. I think it's not just in my subjective sense that today is a very big moment. This is a momentous moment because probably in a few or several hours you will come to decide on a further picture of the constitutional body, which is the Supreme Court, in the year when this body celebrates its 100th anniversary. At the same time, you will have to bear witness to the ideals, the values that have been at the heart of the Senate since the beginning of history. This is why, contrary to the votes of the pessimists, contrary to the claims that such and not another fate of the Supreme Court is already doomed and that the fate of a large group of judges of the Supreme Court is also doomed, but I stand before you with a certain amount of hope... That's the way I'm gonna put it. I stand before you with a certain amount of hope that what is wrong in the law passed by the Sejm It is wrong because it is unconstitutional, or because it is not contrary to constitutional standards, but it is simply irrational, that all that is wrong in this law, you will reject or correct, because there is still time for it. Where do I get that hope? From various sources, from a very old history, but also from the latest history, from five months ago. First, I'm going to talk very briefly about this old story. The Roman Senate, the name of which, when it comes to etymology, is derived from the word senex, the old man, the council of the elders, was from the very beginning an institution with a very high moral authority, enjoying a great estimate and social trust. During the republican period, being among the senators was a sign of belonging to the undisputed Roman elite. No other, I hope, should look at the Senate of the Republic, which also has a centuries-old glorious tradition. The Second Chamber of the Polish Parliament was established After all, it is in the middle of the 14th century, and it comes from the Royal Council operating at the monarchy. And such a position of the Senate as a chamber in which reflection is to prevail over emotion, and legal arguments over political arguments, irritated, disturbed. After a massive propaganda campaign and after the infamous referendum of 30 June 1946, the people's authorities closed down the second chamber of parliament. But the idea of the Senate as a Chamber of Reflection was revived after the democratic breakthrough in 1999. The Senate was reborn, by definition, as a place of substantive, deeper discussion over the substance of the normative changes, but above all on their social consequences. He was reborn as a place where the lower chamber's faults are corrected. And this is the first source of my hope. Now briefly about the second source, in connection with the latest history. I do not believe that any of your senators, being convinced of the unconstitutionality of any solution, voted for it and therefore voted against the Constitution. Such emotional attitudes may occur, although of course they should not, in the Sejm, in a chamber in which there are even political rations. It was there that one of the messengers could deliver a phrase about one of the solutions of your bill during the committee's deliberations. "How to quote, that's faithful, so I'm going to look in the notes" Because of the political agreement, I will vote like my club. On the other hand, I fully share the view of the Minister, and I believe that the wording is clearly unconstitutional in its wording. The fact that we are writing something contrary to the constitution is extremely corrupting by law. Mr. Senator and Mr. Senators, I deeply believe that the Senate law is more important than a political agreement. So the second, but not the last source of my hope, is the fresh one, because from five months ago, the memory of words... I don't see your senator, Professor Aleksander Bobka, but maybe he's listening and watching. So my source of hope is also the memory of the senator's words, who said: "The unconstitutionality of the solution of ending the first President of the Supreme Court before the end of 6 years is in the light of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 constitutions so clear, so obvious that she is able to say this to my granddaughter. Professor, you were right, and you're right, because this constitutional pattern hasn't changed. And nothing, ladies and gentlemen, changes the so-called. the regulatory environment of this provision of the Constitution, including Article. 111 in conjunction with Article. 12 §1 of the Law adopted by the Sejm, according to which a person appointed to the position of the First President of the Supreme Court may take this position only until he is retired, transferred to his retirement or the termination of his service relationship with the Supreme Court. Why does this provision newly introduced into the ordinary law not change anything? Because the basic principle is that it is in the light of the constitutional provisions that ordinary laws are taught. And if the ordinary law, even in a pro-constitutional interpretation, cannot be reconciled with the constitution, then the Constitution must be respected, one should be faithful to the Constitution, and not to the principle that ordinary laws will decide on the content of constitutional solutions. If it were to be accepted that, by way of such a provision as is proposed in the Act which I just quoted, it was possible to change, as it were to hollow out the content of the provision of the basic law, then, in general, by ordinary law, any provision of the Constitution could be amended without achieving the so-called. a qualified constitutional majority and without maintaining the procedure referred to in Article. 235 basic law. There is, ladies and gentlemen, the notion of an unfriendly constitution. Some even say, "An enemy interpretation." But I don't like using big quantifiers, which is why I prefer to speak softer: interpretation of a hostile constitution. This method of interpretation consists in pulling out a single rule or even a fragment of a single rule from a whole set of rules, from a system of constitutional values. Such an interpretation has, for example, been carried out for months in connection with the content of the Article. 187 the Constitution and the discussion of who should elect those 15 members of the National Courts referred to in paragraph. Point 1 (2) of that Article. But you discussed this in another item on the agenda. I only give this as an example of this interpretation of an unfriendly constitution. As one of the professors of law stated, this unfriendly interpretation of the Constitution can be compared to a situation in which, on the basis of one passage or sentence in a book, it decides on the content of this book. And of course, reaching for the same argument is not a plagiarism, but if I gave the same example that the professor was talking about, I would make a plagiarism, which is why I will give another example. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of one fragment, without reference to the value, to the constitutional value team... It's kind of like that. after reading the first sentence of "The ashes," i.e. The sentences of the Hounds went into the woods, saying that Stefan Żeromski wrote a hunting saga. But I want to say no to the interpretation of the unfriendly constitution, and I want to say something further, namely the legislation of the unfriendly constitution. Well, legislation that is unfriendly to the Constitution is a legislation that is designed to create, so let's put it into question, to argue that some provision of the basic law does not have any categorical content at all. An example of such legislation of the hostile constitution is this article. 111 in conjunction with Article. 12 §1 last sentence of Law No 685 on which you are debating. This provision is to be hollowed out of that principle as set out in Article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: The 3rd constitution is what is most important in it. Isn't there any other way to put this? Yeah, you could. There would be nothing wrong with this, in my opinion, if an appropriate inter-temporal provision were to be created, from which it would appear that for this term of office which is in progress and is bound by Article. Article 183 (3) shall not apply. 12 §1. And, ladies and gentlemen, it really doesn't change the fact that, theoretically, your first president could ask the President to extend his judicial service in case he's over 65 years old. The Constitution speaks harshly of 6 years' term without any further conditions, without anyone's possible gracious gesture, even though it was What do I say with due respect? A gesture of the head of state. So I hope that, taking into account the arguments presented, and this time Professor Bobko will express his conviction But now, not withhold from the vote, but with a vote against That in this passage the law is contrary to the Constitution. I have, ladies and gentlemen, also in the memory of Senator Jarosław Oremski, who also expressed his constitutional doubts in the July vote. And I have in my mind an excellent film, filmed exactly 60 years ago, in 1957, entitled "Twelve Angry People." On those 12 jurors, ladies and gentlemen, there was only one doubt. And he convinced the others. I hope, Professor, that when you hear these arguments, you can convince your club. There's two of you, there's only one of you. I am unable, of course, due to the time constraints, to respond to the numerous details of the act which you have handed over to the Marshal of the Seym to the hands of the Marshal of the Senate in the form of print No. 685. These details must raise not only doubts, but also the highest concern from the point of view of the principle of three divisions of power, and also from the point of view of the independence of the Supreme Court and of this, I very strongly stress this, what we call the objective acceptance of independence of judges in this court ruling not the independence of the heart which we all know and of which I spoke in July, but of this independence in an objective sense, in the sense of acceptance by the broad circles of citizens. So let me repeat in a telegraphic summary that the most painful part of the judge's environment is that to justify the claim that a whole new Supreme Court must be created 'Cause it's really going to be a different Supreme Court than the one referred to in the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 constitutions and all over the article. 183 of the Constitution is given and reproduced in my deepest conviction instrumental and not responding to the real thing. Yes, Polish society wants a change in the judiciary, but it wants above all, and it has been mentioned many times in this Chamber, speeding up proceedings, and this, ladies and gentlemen, can only serve to improve procedures. A horse with a row of who will point me in the bill which is the subject of today's debate, at least one provision serving this purpose. An emergency complaint can certainly not serve that purpose. Adding another instance or quasi-instance because when we talk about extraordinary remedies, we're not talking about a classic instance. It must not speed up the procedure. I'll talk more about it in the question phase. But, ladies and gentlemen, a horse with a row and one of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators, who will show me the statistical data that contradicts the thesis that the Polish Supreme Court is one of the more efficient courts in Europe, with the average handling of the case It's not a nice word for "six-month" or "seven-months." You can always do better, but it is in European statistics and so very good result. And, therefore, does this argument about speeding up proceedings even apply to the Supreme Court? Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Polish society really wants more transparency of proceedings, Polish society accepts the idea of random allocation of cases, only that it was in the Supreme Court Penitentiary Chamber that the resolution of the enlarged composition was passed, which by way of so-called. a pro-constitutional interpretation against civil rights and freedoms allowed the public to be heard in situations where the ordinary legislature did not guarantee such transparency, transparency. It is because of the case law of the Supreme Court that there has been an increase in transparency, which is greater than the provision of the law provides. As far as this randomness is concerned, there is a provision in the law on which you are sitting that contradicts citizens' expectations about the randomness of the allocation. Ladies and gentlemen, please take a look at the content of the article. 80 §1 of the contested draft, which states, I quote: The allocation of cases and the appointment of the formation of the court shall be carried out by the President of the Supreme Court who directs the work of the Chamber concerned. Anyone can verify that this is a regression of the current practice of the Supreme Court. Where is this randomness here, which is so exposed in the public debate? And finally: yes, society accepts the idea of clearing the judiciary of the compromised people, and so do I. But the Supreme Court really isn't a stable of Augias loaded with communist oppressors. In the 1990s, it was really thoroughly rebuilt by staff, and in its composition, ladies and gentlemen, more and more people who know the period of communism only from books. For several months we have heard, I have also heard, repeated news, that among the judges of this court there is a person who, during the period of martial law, prepared reports from the state of the caselaw related to the infamous decree. Except none of us know who it is because there's no personality. And none of us know why, even if these personalities were to fall, the collective responsibility of a possible unworthy individual would be borne by the entire institution, the entire constitutional body. The judge's environment hurts and it hurts. And this pain is transmitted, as I say, to the broad circles of society. In what atmosphere the so-called judicial laws are being conducted. From a democratic point of view of the rule of law, and yet one within the meaning of Article. 2 of the Constitution is to be the Republic, it is difficult to accept the fact that a wider debate on such a politically important issue is replaced by several meetings of the projector with the leader of the parliamentary majority. What I say with all the utmost respect for both of these people. The same, that is, this lack of acceptance, concerns the fact that the amendments agreed outside Parliament to the last minute are, in fact, a mystery and surprise those to be affected. That is not enough, after all we all saw that the representatives of the designer are also surprised. I felt very sorry for the Minister when I watched the scenes of the work of the Sejm Committee. It cannot be overlooked that, in fact, the discussion during the work of the Sejm committee was on the verge of a sham of the participants limited the speaking time to one minute. What can you say in one minute? By the way, put yourselves in a position... well, we could use a lot of comparisons here: to the defendant, to the plaintiff... It seems to me that it would be most appropriate to compare the role of the victim, whose court, allowing him to give his last word in a very important case, limits his speaking to one minute and strictly follows the time limit. He would therefore like to remind that in 2002 work on the current Supreme Court law was accompanied by a far-reaching consensus between the various political forces. It was voted in favour of the vast majority of political forces at that time, including the current senators of the largest senator club. I checked it out because memory can be unreliable. He voted for her, for example, then as a Member I don't see your vice marshal, but I will refer to this example. Mr. Marshal Adam Bielan. And he was right to vote for her because it's a really good bill. I will also remind you that a total of 9 meetings were held during the meetings of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights at that time and specifically set up for the purpose of considering this Act of the Emergency Sub-Committee. The voices of the judicial community, of other legal backgrounds, were actively listened to, all pros and cons were considered, because that was when the constitutional principle of cooperation and cooperation between the authorities was realized. We're in pain, judges. But I think it also hurts the broad circles of society. The fact that, in a situation where the 6 opinions submitted to the Sejm Office for Sejm Analysis by outstanding experts 4 opinions were highly critical and signalled a number of further constitutional doubts, in addition to that related to the violation of the first President of the Supreme Court... This statement of doubts is, in fact, the most delicate formulation possible, because in fact these opinions stated that they were even unconstitutional, in the opinion of their authors, of course, also a number of other solutions. It hurts us that in such a situation we cut off the discussion of these doubts repeated as the mantra phrase. It can be recreated, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators. We will resolve these doubts in the vote. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, with the utmost respect for the parliamentarians sitting in the Lower House, for the parliamentarians sitting in the Higher House, I will say that if any constitutional doubt can be resolved in the vote... [[It's in Hungary.]] ...this forum is either a meeting room at the Constitutional Court, or a judge's meeting room. However, if constitutional doubts arise in Parliament, then we must try to clarify these doubts to the end. So what's really going on? What is it really about the fact that the Polish Parliament is willing to adopt a law in several places that violates the constitution? What's the point of pushing it for the second time, in an unusual hurry, with an unusual one, I'm going to try to use a delicate term, a legislative disinvolture that leads to obvious mistakes? It's one of the only examples. This time, using this express pace, no such legislative failure as the one which is evident contradiction between the content of §1 and §3 in Article 3 was avoided. 89 of the Act is this provision on an emergency complaint. It follows from §1 that this emergency action is only entitled to final decisions of universal courts and military courts, but no longer to decisions of the Supreme Court, which, for example. Came in as a result of the deletion. However, it is clear from §3 that, however, the judgment of the Court of Cassation also gives rise to an emergency action. Yes, yes, there are such judgments which arise as a result of the recognition of the cassation, and they are of a substantive nature, and they are the end of the proceedings. This was seen in the presidential project. But it was ignored by the Members in this speeding pendolino with the amendments. What really is the point of the legislator's intention to determine the fate of the Chamber of Labour, Social Insurance and Public Affairs of the Supreme Court, which has been the guarantor of free, transparent and fair elections since the systemic changes in 1989? Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, these opinions must come to you, after all, you must hear them, that there are politicians who believe that politicians should have a powerful influence on the judiciary, that it is a fight of influence, that what is worse is to reduce the independence of the courts. This is a very dangerous direction, regardless of which side of the political scene he would have had stronger support from. It's completely irrelevant, and the fact itself is important. This is the direction. so dangerous that for a very long time I defended myself from giving faith to these opinions. But the day came when my child's belief that intentions are good, only these good intentions are sometimes tuned into unhappy ideas, ruined. I was hoping I'd misheard that I'd succumbed to some kind of ear fatamorgan. Let's call it that. That is why I have been waiting for the official transcript to appear from the 50th second session of the Sejm of this term of office. Unfortunately, my hearing didn't fail me. Mr President, the work of the Sejm Committee on the Judicial Law has been stated, and I quote the word from the transcript: "In the course of the previous discussion, there have been votes on how much reform of the Supreme Court will contribute to the reform of the National Judicial Council to speed up judicial proceedings. Of course, it's not a direct quote. And then: But the reform isn't just about speeding up, because that's what we're going to take care of during the next bill projects. And then, we want not only structural changes, but also personal changes. When I talk about personal changes, I mean that there should be a qualitative transformation of judges who will be people with a service mentality towards the state and nation. It's on page 130 of the transcript. [[Unbelievable.]] It's on page 130 of the transcript. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, there has been such a sad period in history, in our history, when many human tragedies have been caused precisely by the fact that judges were people of service mentality towards the state. What's more, you're saying that if you show us concrete examples, I'll say yes: you're right. That such a service mentality towards the State from that period was not properly accounted for by the environment. I want to believe deeply. The fact that those who are about to come for me in a moment will not be people with a service mind towards the state. The judge about the service mentality is the caricature of the judge. Just a few more words. Well, the person who said these words was clearly mistaken in two situations: serving for a community and presenting a subordinate to the community And these are two fundamentally different things. In serving for a community, it is possible to present various attitudes: an independent attitude, which must be repeated: which must characterize a judge, which must be characterized by a judge, or a subordinate attitude, submissive. It is precisely with the presentation of certain attitudes that we most often associate character traits and human mentality I say this to quote. And that was the context of what he said. If you had also said that judges should remember that they are serving the State, I would probably not have quoted it, although I would not exactly agree with this position. I believe that I am serving for the Polish law and thus for the citizens of the Polish state. And there's a big difference. I think that, in building his statement, he forgot the dictionary meanings of the word "service." In adjective terms, it means additional, consultative, auxiliary, reserve, service, supportive, which does not necessarily correspond to the mentality that the judge should have. In the dictionary, you would also read that this expression has nounial meaning. The servant is a butler, butler, butler, maid, and even an orderly, concubine, butler. I can quote certain dictionaries and quote certain pages from these dictionaries. I want to ask you something, ladies and gentlemen of the senators. Do you want to rebuild the mentality of Polish judges in this direction? Do you really want the State Treasury to judge in civil proceedings in damages cases when the other side of the dispute is the State Treasury I'm gonna quote it again. You're a human being with a service mindset against the state? What happens to the citizen then? Do you want people of this mentality to think in criminal proceedings, e.g. for damages under Chapter 58 of the Code of Criminal Procedure? This is a chapter that talks about compensation for, of course, unfair temporary arrests, detentions or, of course, unfair convictions, convictions. Ladies and gentlemen, if you find yourself in the so-called. The budget hole, the judges of the service mindset against the state should be dealing with criminal cases? This budget hole could then be easily flooded. But at whose expense? Citizens of the state. Is a judge with a service mind towards the state the best person to judge criminal cases in which, on the other hand, the defendant is facing a prosecutor? Of course, it doesn't matter what his name is. The important thing is that there's all the power of the state behind the prosecutor. What about the whole area of administrative justice? I hope, however, that the senators of the Republic of Poland will share the view that the judge of the service mentality towards anyone is the caricature of the judge and that all the rationalization that has been given to the Parliament's transcript will not find recognition in your eyes. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, it is no secret that I am 67 years old. It's your first president who's awkward to talk about your age. She's a lot of skill to me because I'm a man. According to the assumptions behind the bill, which you will vote on, with the attainment of sixty-five years of age, as with the touch of the magic wand, I have ceased to be crystal clear, just like many of my colleagues, who cannot be accused of anything except that they have reached that age. I ask you: why this? Can any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators explain this? Does the law, which is about to be the subject of your vote, indicate the precise criteria on which the President is to carry out a specific verification, put one at his right hand and say that these Yes, and the others on the left and say: No? How does that apply to the rule of law? If only the President were to decide it himself! But it is, ladies and gentlemen, highly questionable. Of course, I remember very well what Minister Surówka-Pasek said yesterday. I also read Dr. Szczucki's article a few days ago. In these statements and publications, there is such a view that not only the prerogatives mentioned in the Constitution are exempt from countersignation. 144, but also all others that are their consequence. I understand that I am faithful to your thought. But that's just the opinion of the minister, the doctor, and two or three constitutionalists. On the other hand, according to a much more common position, the doctrine of presidential prerogatives constitutes an exception to the principle of countersignation of official acts of the head of state, and exceptions, in accordance with the old Roman principle of exceptions non sunt extenddae, must not be interpreted in an extensifying way. Therefore, during the work of the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly, whose protocols are a specific source of authentic interpretation, it was pointed out that the catalogue of prerogatives is, I quote, exhaustive and enumerative and that other exemptions cannot be presumed, even when they are obvious to a sound mind. And surely, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, for this reason, the President of the Council of Ministers countersigned the order of the President of December 2016 to appoint the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, although the appointment of the President and Vice-President of the Court does not require a countersignation. In the light of the argument made by the Minister, what was the countersignation for in this case? The same rule will therefore apply to the actions taken by the President not only with regard to requests for approval to continue to be held by the judge, but also to the appointment of the first President, the President of the Chambers. Therefore, both the fate of the judges who ask the President to agree to continue to take office and the appointment of the first president and other presidents will perhaps co-decide. I'm about to tell you why I'm saying maybe the prime minister at the head of the executive authority, which is the executive authority, I'll remind you, by virtue of the article. 173 of the Constitution should be separate from the judicial authority and the latter should be independent from other authorities. I know the Minister and the Minister too well not to know that you are deeply convinced of your own view. It's just that it's not up to you to decide whether or not this countersignation is gonna have to be there. Because if I turn out that an entity entitled to a possible countersignation will say otherwise in my opinion it is different, and after that it will refer to the case of December 2016, we may find ourselves in a very, very uncomfortable situation. At the same time, I would like to make it very clear that this is not about me or the first President of the Supreme Court. This is not even about a group of about 40% of those colleagues who will leave the Supreme Court in connection with the age of sixty-five. There was a time when we weren't in the Supreme Court, and there would be a time when we wouldn't be in the Supreme Court. This is about something much, much more important. This is about the rules of the democratic rule of law. Are those who claim that it is primarily about taking over the staff of the Supreme Court, especially by calling in the Supreme Court? two further separate courts, one of which is called the Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs Chamber, and the other is called the Disciplinary Chamber? In fact, the latter chamber is equipped with such a far-reaching autonomy that, in accordance with the principles of legislative technique, the title of the contested law might as well sound, or should actually be: the Law on the Supreme Court and the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court. Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator and Mr. Senators, it's time to move towards the end of the speech. I must have abused your hospitality anyway. To the rest of the argument, I will therefore refer to the written materials presented by the Supreme Court. I ask you to remember that from the beginning of this legislative process we have presented a comprehensive analysis of the proposed legislation, and the relevant documentation is available, I hope, in your Senator's lockers, and at least on your tablets. Ladies and gentlemen, in our opinions there is no policy, no unnecessary publicist diwags. They take into account only the existing acquis in the field of legal literature and judicial case law. And please don't identify our disapproval for solutions that we believe and not only do, because the opinions expressed also in the lion's share of the opinions submitted in connection with this legislative process, including in the opinion of the Legislative Office of the Upper House, the Senate, which I have read very carefully... It is therefore not an expression of disapproval for these non-constitutional solutions that we are talking about and talking about, but is an expression of disapproval for this non-compliance. Do not bind this country with any political resistance on our part. That's not the point. The point is that every citizen has a duty to uphold the Constitution, and for judges, this obligation has a special dimension, because it comes from a judge's promise, in which it is true We mentioned this yesterday. There is no question of the Constitution, but these words concern it, that we are to comply with the laws, including, if we know the hierarchy of normative acts, the highest law of our homeland, the constitution. As a lawyer and judge, I ask you to also weigh your decisions in substance, not in the same way as you could hear in the course of your work in the Sejm. It's a political agreement. Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator and Mr. Senators, I conclude my speech by referring to the words of introduction, and thus with a certain amount of hope that today does not have to be the last day of this Supreme Court referred to in Article. 183 constitutions. And I take this hope from the belief that for the senators and senators of the Constitution it is not only a certain book, but it is a set of values adopted by the people in the referendum, by the people referred to in Article. Four constitutions. That it is a team of values not only accepted by this nation in a referendum, but also deep within the broad circles of this nation, of which two are the most important values: freedom and dignity. For the last few days you have seen and heard many times such a triad of postulates: free orchards, free elections, free Poland. Do you have these demands in front of you? You must have seen them. I can't believe you didn't see them. Do you hear these demands? You must have heard them. I can't believe you didn't hear them. And I do not believe that you have not considered what they really refer to, what they relate to. That is why I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, which of these postulates will you not support in the vote? The one about the free courts? The one about the free elections? After all, not the one that concerns free Poland. But I also ask you to remember that they are, in fact, inseparable. And I would also ask you to remember that if you turn your vote against any of these demands, it will be about free courts and free elections, and above all about free Poland, however, free people will be remembered. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u43	At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's request to the representative of the Supreme Court relating to this item on the agenda. The senators have signed up for the vote. Senator Fedorowski's first question... I'm sorry, Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u44	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Judge, this speech of yours, which will be in the Senate protocols, is one of the most shocking speeches in the fight for freedom and independence of the courts I have heard in my life. And I'm proud to be here with you. I'd like to thank you very much for that. The result of the vote as it will be, but it will remain in the history of the Polish Parliament. I know the formula makes me ask a question... [[To this end, you have spoken.]] Yes, Mr. Marshal. I'm glad... You're a... [[So, please, go ahead...]] ...a prominent lawyer, which is why I'd like to follow the rules... Tell me, 'cause I'm 70 years old in what countries are age limits? Because it seems to me that the Supreme Court judge should be a man of internship, of highest qualifications, and of great authority. Are there countries in Western culture, with Western law, where there is such a border? And if so, what is the age limit for judges of such a court? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u45	Please, Judge.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u46	Miss Marshal! Mr. Senator! I am responsible for what I say, and I will therefore say this: I will not quote to you precise data on the age at which the judges of the Supreme Court must end their occupation in certain countries. In addition to, of course, one example that we all know about, which we all operate on, and which is not such an invalid example again. Why? Because we all rely on the established beautiful principles of democracy, based on the Constitution of the United States of America, and there, gentlemen, when you become a Supreme Court judge, you are lifelong. I spoke about this in the discussion with Minister Warchoł in July this year. Our common idol, Judge Scalia, has served this function for the rest of his life. Is this the right way to do this for the rest of your life? I don't want to discuss it. We know the history of a long-standing Chief Justice, that's what it's called over there. President of the United States Supreme Court, Judge Rehnquist, who in recent years could not judge at all, but was still the Supreme Court judge of the United States. It seems to me, Mr. Senator, that the problem isn't really that it's going to be 70 years or 72 years or 75 years. The problem is how to deal with this group of people who, at the time when they became judges of the Supreme Court, were guaranteed: that judge's irresistibility was guaranteed, as referred to in Article. Point (b) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1st Constitution. At the time I came to the Supreme Court, I knew perfectly well that when I turned 70, I would basically have to leave, but if I felt up to it, I would be able to do this job for another two years until I was seventy years old. You can say that, in total, in the solution provided by your President, the age of 65 years plus possibly two years times three, which is 71 years old, which is the same age. Except there's one fundamental, vast difference that I've been talking about in this fundamental core of my speech. I'd have to file a motion, I'd have to wait for a gesture from the head of state. This isn't an insult to me. For me, the problem is different. The problem is that, in my deep conviction, at the moment when I came to the Supreme Court, I had guaranteed inextricability, and in fact this solution contradicts this principle because it introduces some kind of retroactive legislation. This is not as much of a problem as it is with the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3, as in the case of the first Supreme Court President, because there is such a clear, clear and obvious situation that in my deepest conviction there is nothing to discuss at all, but here too is a very serious constitutional doubt. At least make sure there's some criteria in this bill. I don't understand why these criteria aren't here. To point out that it is an age criterion is not an answer for me, because this is a completely arbitrary criterion. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry to use this argument, but as you may have seen, it's the third day we're sitting. You're going to the Cougars, you're doing some other, undoubtedly important duties in the meantime, and I, the man representing the 65+ generation, sit in this room on the third day, several hours a day. I sleep for 3 hours because I still have to get from Warsaw. And I think, in spite of that, I'm hoping you'll be able to get me out of a mistake. It's a condition and mental condition, and I keep it physical. [[Applause]] You're welcome... So maybe it's time to say what really decides that those on the right Yeah, and those on the left. No, no, no, no, Of course, the directions are completely random here, and I didn't mean any political connotations at this point. Please note that this is what I'm cutting myself off from.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u47	Are you done with the judge? The next question you're asking is Senator Tight. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u48	Judge! Mr. President! I hope that your speech will make it difficult for some senators to vote in favour of this bill and to break the constitution, especially since some are older than you and they would have to consider that you are not qualified to judge. About the question... Judge, I would ask you to point out whether you find the right to appoint jury members to the Supreme Court, and it is jurors with such low qualifications, jurors elected by the Senate, jurors who would judge basically the law, not the social dimension of the act.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u49	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u50	Mr. Senator, I'm gonna give you the most brief, although the subject is, I'd say, very extensive. In general, I want to make it very clear that I think it was very bad that at some stage of the change in our procedure there was no idea of jury participation. I am talking, in particular, about the case law of the lower courts. I was critical of this phenomenon. Unfortunately, that's what happened. However, not by the will of the judicata, or courts, but by the will of the legislature, or legislator, he won a kind of fetish or assumption that it would be more efficient. But that fitness fetish was fake. It was a false assumption, because it turned out that the absence of a juror does not translate into the speed of proceedings. Sometimes I do, but sometimes I don't. There is a fundamental difference between the participation of jurors in matters of general justice and the participation of jurors in matters of the Supreme Court, in the ruling of the Supreme Court. I'll add that in common court... This is very important. Excuse me, senators, who are lawyers, Senator Czerwinski... There's no senator. What I'm saying right now is truism, but it's very important. Juries in common courts have always been in the courts of first instance, because the courts of first instance were the courts of fact. In the courts of review, which are already mostly courts of law... I am speaking mainly because, with ordinary remedies, they are not merely courts of law. E.g. where there is a contradiction in the factual findings, errors in the factual findings are still the courts of the facts. However, in the second instance there were no benches in common courts. And there isn't. And now the jury would appear at the Supreme Court. If Mr. Senator, I understand that this is the intention of the question, he wants to know my personal opinion on this subject... Perhaps the fellow judges who hear what I'm about to say will be dissatisfied with my answer, but the judge must speak the truth straight into his eyes, he must say what he thinks. The very fact that this is about the Supreme Court is not decisive here. That's not what's decisive. The possible nature of the case is decisive. Ladies and gentlemen, this is my personal opinion. If this were the case, it would be a jury hearing in the Supreme Court in the event of a matter of fact. And a category of such cases could be distinguished from the proposed project. This could be reconciled with the idea that I mentioned at the outset. For example, in disciplinary matters, not only judges, but also representatives of other legal professions, there are two grounds for disciplinary responsibility: gross violation of the law and Okay, here's the A violation of the dignity of a judge, a lawyer or a prosecutor. I must say that in cases where it is a matter of failure to respect, I personally would not see any fundamental reasons to eliminate a juror. But when it comes to gross violation of the law, I'd like to see it. Because there's a need for strict legal analysis. ♪ 'Cause it's like ♪ I'm saying it with the utmost respect. A representative of another profession is to state that when dealing with some complex legal problem, a judge has grossly violated the law? He's not gonna be any help in judgment. And another very important thing. Please note that this project introduces jurors to judgment not only at first instance but also at second instance. Even with regard to the Supreme Court judges, because in the second instance there will be a five-member squad: 3 professional judges and 2 jurors. And that's a flaw. Now let's get back to the emergency complaint for a second. If this were so, I would ask you that these jurors, according to the project, would be co-opted into the warehouses when the condition of the emergency complaint was that referred to in Article. 89 §1 (3) I quote: "There is an obvious contradiction between the substantive findings of the court and the content of the evidence gathered, in the light of what I have just said, that it still holds up to the rules. But if they are to participate in any case, also in the case in which the basis for an emergency complaint is that I quote that the judgment grossly infringes the law by its misinterpretation or misuse... Well, here I have a question for the Minister, for the Minister: how does such a shipbuilder, a nurse, have such an emergency complaint to recognize what assistance he is going to give to a professional judge? That's as good as... Well, I'm sorry, but you might as well bring in the jury. Because this condition is very similar to the grounds for a cassation action, to a ruling in cassation cases. In my opinion, this place can't work completely systemically, and the worst thing you can imagine is breaking system solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u51	You're asking Senator Blackbay a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u52	Mr. Marshal! Judge! The first question I'd like to ask you as an engineer, an educated engineer, not a juror... I've already asked about it during the review of the KRS Act, but I'd like to hear your answer from the judge, too, because the judge has such a gift of simple lectures. Tell me what he'd be like in engineering. Speaking of which, the technological sequence of the formation of the system bill. We are talking about a draft law for the Polish state. What a time sequence should look like, spatial, debating, etc., etc.? I'd like you to put it so briefly, briefly. [[Supreme Court President Stanisław Zabłocki: May I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u53	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u54	Mr. Senator, I would like to say first of all that I would like to separate myself from some wording. As I made a vow with the president a year and a half ago, I said I would try to make my chambers zero politics, but I wouldn't give in to politicians. And I'd like to do the same thing in this room. Therefore, I would like not to use the wording of the technological string, because it has recently become very pejorative and we all know what is hidden in the subtext. And I wouldn't want to... [[I'm sorry to take your word for it. I mean, in the engineering sense...]] Unless you do. It should be a process, in my opinion, carried out as it was conducted. That's why I'm talking about it. The legislative process in 2002 when it was adopted... well, so to speak, not yet a dead woman, but the current Law on the Supreme Court of 2002 - in peace, with caution, in broad consultation. I really don't think that's gonna happen. I think a lot of mistakes could be avoided here. I think a lot of things could be legal... I understand that there are certain... Yeah, well, I guess there are some political barriers. I don't want to talk about at all and I won't talk about it. Which would be unheard of, but not for every rule, e.g. Not in the case of emergency complaint laws, because it's just the law... I hope it's just the law, not politics. Let me give you an example of this emergency complaint. Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to refer again to my own experience, because I'm a little bit on these appeals and extraordinary appeals. I've been writing about it for 30 years. In the interviews already during the legislative process, in the articles that were published in the legal press, I reported how the same results could be achieved that were wanted by means of an emergency complaint, without what I call destroying the system of remedies and exceptional remedies. I'm not saying I had a good idea, but I think they were good. Maybe you could and maybe it was worth discussing it, maybe we could find something together... you'll pay attention to something that... I know that, due to the moment, the circumstances of the application got you the first president for... I'm talking about this project, Madam First Chairman. But there were a few in my deep conviction of very cool thoughts. Maybe it'd be really cool if we could move those thoughts... Wasn't there time for that? All I'm gonna say is, there wasn't time. Because of the political will, of course, I will not speak because I am a judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u55	Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal, just one question, if you don't mind...]] Extra? [[No, no, I think it's a question.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u56	I mean, Judge, it's time. How long in your assessment, on the basis of the experience of the judge, should this continue as regards the issue of this bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u57	It's awfully hard to say, Senator, because it all depends on the intensity of the work. It's pretty obvious. I think it all takes some thought, some reflection. As far as the very important law on the Constitutional Authority is concerned, it would probably be a government measured not in weeks and not even in months, but in years. Within a year, 2 years. [[That's what they did on the islands...]] Ladies and gentlemen, please understand me. That's my feeling. May I, Mr. Marshal, resort to one example which is not directly related to the senator's question, to illustrate what I mean? [[The President may resort to any assistance he deems appropriate.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the Chamber: This is the role of the President.]] I understand, but I didn't want to expose myself to the attention of your marshal that I wasn't talking about. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to tell you this is going to take 30 seconds as I prepare for every cassation case. I'm not talking about the legal issue. I'm talking about the ordinary cassation case. How do I know I'm supposed to think so, and about two, three months ahead... This is due to the order of the chairman of a particular department. Because I think I'm a judge, too, and not just a palace president, as some say. I take the file first, I read it, and I wonder what the problems are. I'm adjourning it in two months. But I've already seen these problems. And I walk around with these problems and I think about them while walking with my beloved dog. In the car, I think... Then I take these files in my hand again, and I read again, and I'm looking for something new. And only a few days before the trial does this proper preparation take place. Ladies and gentlemen, this is my technique in any ordinary cassation case, believe me. It seems to illustrate a bit what we should be thinking about in the legislative process, especially since not one person is involved in the legislative process, but... Because it's not about thinking for one person, it's about thinking for many people, it's about bringing these ideas together later, discussing these ideas, and getting to what everyone will consider a solution if not optimally, it's at least satisfactory for all participants in the legislative process.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. I must thank you now because I have the following information to communicate to the High Senate. Firstly, from 11 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. there will be a break during which a parliamentary fee meeting will take place. At 12.00 we will open the act of Jubilee of the three hundredth anniversary of the coronation of the painting of Our Lady of Jasna Góra. At the same time, I inform you that there will be no previously announced break between 6 p.m. and 8 p.m. Once the time limit has been exhausted, the second agenda item will be re-examined. Dismissed until 12:30. [[Supreme Court President Stanisław Zabłocki: Mr. Marshal, excuse me, should I remain at the disposal of the High House or not?]] [[Yeah, yeah.]] There will be a return to this point, so that... [[President of the Supreme Court Stanisław Zabłocki: I am to remain.]] [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 00 to 12 minutes 32]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u59	High Izbo, extend the recess until 12:40. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 32 to 12 minutes 48]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u60	I'm reopening the session. And, ladies and gentlemen, may I begin by suggesting that I supplement the agenda with a point: a grant law for the Foundation for Cultural Heritage intended to supplement perpetual capital, print No. 684 and consider this item as item 8 of the agenda, in front of points on draft resolutions. If I do not hear any objection, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. [[Roger that.]] In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we have a pending formal request previously made by Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Since there was no quorum, we didn't vote on this proposal, so I'm gonna let myself... Is there a voice... Because it was a formal conclusion and, I understand, it was a voice of objection. So we proceed to the vote of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz's request for a recess by 11 a.m. on 15 December this year. I'm just gonna ask, does the marshal stand by this motion? [[Sustained.]] Is the opposition sustained? [[Sustained.]] [[Yes, I'm making... there's an objection, of course.]] There it is. But there's only one, and that's enough. [[But maybe the marshal could justify it.]] Mr. Senator, he doesn't have to justify it. Maybe he doesn't have to. There's no obligation. He filed this request, perhaps it was filled with justification yesterday, I don't know, because I wasn't there. But, as I understand it, there's a motion that we have to vote on. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz's request for an adjournment by 11 a.m. on 15 December? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 Senators voted, 18 for, 58 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 6]] Your Marshal's motion was rejected. [[Mr. Marshal...]] And what are you on, Senator, and above all in what mode? [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like to make a formal motion.]] Formal conclusion. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u61	Thank you very much. According to Art. 48 (1) (a) Section 2 (9) of the Senate Rules of Procedure, please change the way in which the deliberations are held and move on to the discussion. Thank you. [[Since when...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u62	Senator Klich, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u63	Mr Marshal, it would be inappropriate to discuss such a formal proposal in this particular matter on a matter that concerns all Poles, the independence of the judiciary. I therefore appeal to your marshal to follow the rules of the arts and continue to consider this point in accordance with the rules, i.e. They finished listening to the Supreme Court judge and our guests. I ask that the marshal take this into consideration by his grace, otherwise it would mean gagging the mouth of both the opposition and the senators of the ruling party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u64	But, Senator, I'd like to hear, specifically, whether you're appealing to me or objecting. Because it's very important. 'Cause if this is an appeal, I'm the one who's rejecting this appeal. [[This is a formal conclusion.]] Tell me if you object.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u65	I object to this motion... [[Objection, of course.]] ...by appealing to your marshal... [[No, it's my duty...]] ...that you should respect the rules that apply in this House, especially when we are talking about fundamental matters such as system laws. [[...Respected the rules.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u66	Mr. Senator, the rules apply to me, and... Excuse me, Senator, in what mode?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u67	I just want to draw your attention, because your marshal wasn't here before, that we haven't finished processing the point, we're in the middle of asking questions... [[It's not nice to tell the marshal he was gone.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u68	But, Senator, I know you don't... [[...Mr. Chairman...]] Senator, I'm so sorry. This is your senator's opinion, and I'm not giving the floor right now to give the opinion. We'll move on to the vote. I can only tell you that this will mean that a government representative will not present his... Perhaps if an ombudsman came forward, he could get... [[He volunteered.]] But, ladies and gentlemen... [[Voices from the O.R.: He volunteered.]] [[Ombudsman Adam Bodnar: I applied to the Marshal of Severinsky today.]] Okay, well, you volunteered, but there's a formal motion. And now this formal conclusion... [[Mr. Marshal, about the formal...]] [[We're voting!]] But this... There you go. At least we'll vote later.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u69	On a formal matter, Mr. Marshal. The interpretation of the reference to this article by Mr Martynowski... [[Senator.]] ...is not in accordance with the rules and procedures. There was no such conclusion, we never voted on such a proposal...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u70	No, no, Mr. Marshal... No, no, Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, but in the rules I quoted yesterday... I'm just going to have to look again, ladies and gentlemen, but... [[Changing the way in which the proceedings are conducted is not to stop asking questions, to stop asking questions. It's a change of way...]] Mr. Marshal: President of the Senate Marshal's deliberations Or vice-marshal. It shall interpret the Rules of Procedure of the Senate and decide how they apply the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. [[Of course.]] The formal application that the senator has made falls within the category of formal applications, and I am... There is a formal proposal, there is a vote of opposition, and I must put this proposal to the vote. This is a procedure in accordance with the rules of procedure. Everybody's got... [[Mr. Marshal, I'm on a formal issue, if you don't mind.]] But in what mode? [[In the manner in which Senator Martynowski submitted his application...]] [[Mr. Marshal, do the Senators of the PiS have the right to make formal requests?]] [[...in addition to this proposal...]] But, Mr. Senator, you raised your hand and approached the platform. [[Yes.]] I didn't give you the floor. I want us to vote... [[I ask you to give me the floor because of the importance of the case.]] But there's a formal conclusion... [[Mr. Marshal, what is this?]] [[But don't treat us like that!]] But I have a formal motion that I have to formally put to the vote, and you're preventing me from doing so right now. [[But I wanted to expand my justification...]] But now you're... No, no... [[...a counterclaim...]] That's against the rules, Senator. Excuse me...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u71	Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. The convention was just over. Mr. Marshal was holding this meeting. At the meeting of the Convention, we discussed in very detail what would be the course of this procedure. Neither Mr. Marshal nor Vice-Marshals nor Senator Martynowski representing the Law and Justice Club said a word about it... [[They didn't have to.]] We agreed just now at the convention meeting that we would proceed according to the current agenda. [[And we don't take it off...]] It's not just a matter of decency, but it's a fundamental political issue. [[Mr. Senator...]] You want to take the floor both... [[Okay...]] ...to the Supreme Court representing the Supreme Court, as well as to the Ombudsman, as well as to us for questions addressed first to the judge and then to the Ombudsman. You just want to gag our mouths and this is an unimaginable scandal in this House! [[We're voting!]] [[Cocksucking! Please take your seat!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u72	Sir, this is your... Thank you very much. I'm gonna take your vote. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Excuse me. Thank you very much... [[And that's your bullshit! That's what this is about, not only about the opposition, but also about all the citizens who...]] [[Applause]] [[Please take your seat!]] Thank you very much. I took your voice away... [[...who watch us and listen to us. This can't be right, Mr. Marshal.]] Mr. Senator, I'm calling you back to order for the first time. [[Please summon yourself...]] I'm calling you back to normal for the second time. [[Call, Mr. Marshal, the reporter...]] And I'm asking you to... [[Some senators of the Civic Platform Club chant: Free courts! Free courts! Free courts!]] [[We are talking about freedom and independence of the judiciary in Poland. This is unacceptable, Mr. Marshal. By submitting such a motion to the vote, Mr. Marshal takes responsibility...]] You're already... This isn't recording because I took your voice. You're welcome... [[...you will take responsibility for gagging not only the opposition but also citizens who demand free courts.]] Mr. Senator, you're welcome to leave the stand, or I'll have you out of session in a moment. [[You're welcome to exclude me from the proceedings, then.]] Okay... We proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to the vote... [[No, Mr. Marshal...]] ...on the formal application of Senator Martynowski... [[I ask once again that the marshal call for a recess and reconsider his decision on this matter.]] Who's in favour? Who's in favour of Senator Martynowski's request? [[It is definitely closing the opposition's mouth, it is closing, gagging the lips of Poles. It just can't be.]] There you go. [[This has never happened in this House before. This is unacceptable in the proceedings...]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. Vote... [[...over the changes in the system, the amending laws, Mr. Marshal...]] Mr. Senator... [[Quiet!]] [[Don't tell me to be quiet, because in cases like this...]] Mr. Senator, this isn't recording because you're... Please leave... [[I'm not talking to you because...]] I'm asking you to leave the platform. [[I'm not gonna leave the speaker until I say so.]] Good. Then please... [[...the principle... I ask that the principle of dialogue in this House be respected.]] In view of the results of the vote, I find that... 78 senators voted, 53 senators voted in favour of Senator Martynowski's request, 21 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 7]] [[Get off the podium!]] [[We're not on the board. We're not on the board.]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that Mr Martynowski's motion has been accepted and voted by a majority. Then we shall proceed with the discussion. He signed up for... [[Mr. Marshal, what does that mean?]] I'm not gonna explain to you if you don't understand, Senator. [[I know exactly what you're talking about...]] [[Get off the podium!]] Please, Senator Bogdan Borusewicz is the first to speak. [[This is not only a violation of the law, but it is also a violation of the fundamental principles of law-making.]] Mr Senator, are you playing Mr Szczerba? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[No. But I'm not playing your marshal... because your marshal really limits the right to discuss in this House...]] I followed the rules of law... Mr. Senator, please... [[Mr. Marshal, putting this motion to the vote, closing the possibility of asking questions and expressing himself to representatives of public institutions, the Supreme Court and the Ombudsman...]] Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Borusewicz. Mr. Senator Borusewicz, you have the floor. [[...allowing fundamental principles to be violated that have always made this House...]] [[Next from the voice mail!]] How? I can rule out your senator? Let me see... How many times have I noticed? [[Talking in the O.R.]] So, Mr. Senator... Is Marshal Borusewicz speaking or not? [[He resigned.]] [[Next on the list!]] Mr. Marshal, are you speaking? Because you're first on the list of speakers. [[He resigned.]] [[Turn on my mike!]] [[Here's another one on the list.]] There's a microphone on. There's a microphone on, the card needs to be inserted. [[He resigned, the marshal refused.]] Are you speaking? You're welcome. [[Mr. Marshal, I refuse to answer that question...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[This is very smart...]] Okay, thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Next... [[...but I think what happened, what you've led to, is a scandal.]] Senator Czesław Ryszka is in the order to speak. [[I gave my speech to the record.]] Oh, for the record, yeah. Thank you. Mr. Senator George Wright. You're welcome. [[There's no way to speak. I refuse to answer that question.]] But I didn't ask you a question, I just asked you to... You signed up for the vote and you're losing it. Yes? Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk. [[I'm on the record, Mr. Marshal.]] [[But you haven't crossed out...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal, I haven't crossed out.]] Then speak up. [[I didn't cross out.]] Well, that's very... [[I'm waiting.]] Well, I'm giving you... [[You can't do that by driving...]] No, well, how do I prevent that from happening? If I ask you to speak, it's like Am I preventing you? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[The other marshals make it impossible for you.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, please take the floor... No. Okay, then. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. [[Mr. Marshal, I don't have a technical opportunity to speak from the podium...]] Why? [[Voice from the room: Teeth hurt...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Because the pedestal is... is it? [[Thank you.]] Mr. Jan Rulewski. He's not here. Would any of your senators like to speak in the discussion? [[No.]] No. I'm calling a break, 10 minutes. Thank you very much. [[I would like to take the floor in the discussion.]] [[And that's how you got the state's freedom of justice.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I would like to speak in the discussion, Mr. Marshal...]] [[It's too late.]] [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 02 to 13 minutes 11]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u73	High Senate, I'm extending the recess until 1:45 p.m. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 11 to 13 minutes 46]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u74	I'm reopening the session. We return to item two of the agenda: the Supreme Court Act. I've announced a recess before the discussion is over, so right now, you can enlist the senators for the discussion. Let me remind you: in the first speech 10 minutes, in the second one 5. But in the meantime, I was approached by a spokesperson of rights... Are you? There it is. The Ombudsman may take the floor in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Sewerinski gave me this information in advance. I ask the Ombudsman to speak. [[What about the questions, Mr. Marshal?]] [[No...]] [[In the new term...]] [[With the Marshal's written down and recognized by you as...]] Senator, I didn't give you the floor. Excuse me. [[But...]] I strictly follow the rules and ask the senators and the Civic Platform, and the Law and Justice to follow the rules. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You're welcome, Mr. Spokesman. You have a voice. [[Tell me something new, not what you did yesterday.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Let's not heat up the atmosphere, really.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u75	Dear Marshal, Dear Senators and gentlemen of the Senators, High Izbo! I would like to thank you for the opportunity to take part in the Senate and make my comments on the Supreme Court Act. It is my greatest privilege to act immediately after the President of the Supreme Court Criminal Chamber, Stanisław Zabłocki. In the memory of every lawyer in Poland, every lawyer, legal counsel, scientist still reads the words of the lawyer Stanisław Zabłocki, who in 1990 defended in the rehabilitation process of rottold Pilecki and after the end of this trial, after the judgment of the Supreme Court was annulled, he could submit this symbolic report on the performance of the task. My presence in the Senate in the context of the Supreme Court Act is justified by three reasons. Firstly, this is an expression of my greatest concern for the standards of judicial independence. We are not discussing a common law, but a law that poses a direct threat to the independence of the judiciary, to the three divisions of the authorities, and consequently to the authorities. For the law of the court. Secondly, the Supreme Court is a regular, you might say, partner in the actions of the Ombudsman. In accordance with the law, the Ombudsman has the right to direct cassations, cassation complaints, requests for codification of case law. During the year of these cassation complaints, the cassation is several dozens, and usually several times a year we address these most complex, most difficult requests for the codification of case law. And, of course, it is very important how the Supreme Court operates, to what extent it meets the standards of independence. Thirdly, the Supreme Court Act introduces an emergency complaint institution. It is a new legal institution in our legal system, which will grant some new opportunities for the Ombudsman to act, but it may also put the Ombudsman's office at risk. And for this reason, I believe that it is my duty to make an emergency complaint to the institution. I would like to stress that at the beginning of December this year, a group of 28 NGOs called on the Sejm to stop its work on the Supreme Court Act and to amend the Act on the National Judicial Council. These organisations have stressed that they are aware of the various shortcomings of justice and have ideas on how to remove these shortcomings, but they want to stress that all the President's proposals so far do not solve any procedural or substantive problems of the Polish judiciary, on the contrary, threaten to completely resolve the justice system and the isolation of Poland in the European Union and in the international arena. It was a serious voice presented by organisations that have been dealing with justice for years and have been looking at the standards of human rights and freedoms and citizens. And that voice is worth considering. But there are also different voices of opposition, e.g. from the Venice Commission, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the offices of democratic institutions located in Warsaw, which prepared a special opinion on the Supreme Court Act. The United Nations Special Rapporteur on the independence of the judiciary, as well as the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe, were also the votes of the General Bar Council and judicial organisations and numerous other non-governmental organisations. I regret to stress that these voices remain unanswered, that these voices do not reflect on what the Supreme Court Act is about and what it will be... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: Quiet!]] ...caused the consequences. Although much has already been said, despite the fact that we know many arguments that refer to the Supreme Court Act, I think it is worth repeating all the time that the Supreme Court Act violates the standards of independence of the judiciary. It is worth repeating this so that we realise that we are discussing fundamental issues that are of great importance to society as a whole. It is with great regret that we could not hear the discussion with the Supreme Court judge, the President of the Supreme Court of Stanisław Zabłocki, because who, like someone in this Chamber but he bears witness to what the Supreme Court is doing and what the consequences of this law will be. I would like to stress that judicial reform is needed. Yesterday in this Chamber, in the context of the debate on the National Judicial Council Act, in reply to Senator Majer and other senators, I spoke about this and pointed out what changes are to be made in terms of the functioning of the judiciary. However, this reform should not begin with the destruction of the achievements of the century of the Supreme Court and the greatest traditions of our statehood, going back to earlier times than the times of the Constitution on 3 May. I would like to address the most important arguments regarding the threat of judicial independence. The first point, widely discussed, is the shortening of the age to which judges can hold their office, from 70 years to 65 years. I would like to stress that this is a solution which is in principle acceptable. The judges, even the Supreme Court, can be considered to retire at this age. When this proposal came up, I looked at it... even quite thoroughly through the laws in force in Germany, Austria There are limitations to age: 65, 67. However, this is acceptable in situations where this type of regulation is created for the future, for those judges who are only beginning to act under certain conditions and who know what their occupational situation looks like, and not in such a situation that the retirement age provided for by the laws governing the operation of the Supreme Court or the Supreme Administrative Court is shrinking. Because in such a situation one has to wonder whether it is really about making the Supreme Court or the Supreme Administrative Court sit people who have the condition, the health that allows it to... And we need to think about what the result is. And the result is that 40% of the Supreme Court judges are in a situation where they have to apply to the President for approval to continue the judicial service. So they are in a situation where they must ask for something, while they should not be put in such a situation at all. What is more, there is this doubt that was debated yesterday about the issue of countersignation, namely whether the President himself can make such a decision, or whether he should ask for a counter-assignment of the President... excuse me, the President of the Council of Ministers. I am of the opinion that exceptions should not be interpreted extensively. The President of the Supreme Court Chamber, Stanisław Zabłocki, pointed out that there were even situations where the countersignation was required to appoint a person acting as President of the Constitutional Tribunal. I think this is the best practical argument to show that this countersignation is needed. Now, back to this discussion... If the arguments of the President's Chancellery are taken into account, saying that, since the President is calling judges, it is possible to draw further conclusions from this, and it can be said that these are the logical powers of the President, which can be exercised without countersignation, but the question arises whether it can actually be interpreted so far. But the question is, I would say, wider, namely: what effects can this have from the point of view of, for example. the effectiveness of such a call? Well, let's imagine there's a judge who applied for an extension. It's in quotes. His judicial service, the president agreed, there was no countersignation of the Prime Minister, the judge passed the judgment, and suddenly it turns out that someone is starting to question this judgment, e.g. before the European Court of Human Rights, claiming that we have been dealing here with the issuing of a judgment by a person who has not been duly empowered as a judge. I draw these scenarios because these are scenarios that lawyers are able to use perfectly in different proceedings, and that's why I'm pointing out these dangers. However, regardless of this strictly legal assessment, the fact that the law results in a shortening of the term of office... I apologize, the shortening of the officials of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court, is a threat to the independence of the judiciary, especially if the consequences of this are taken into account. And now I'm moving on to the next issue. This is, of course, also the situation of the first President of the Supreme Court, Mr. Senator, who was referred to today, Professor, who was referred to during the debate this morning. Because if there's a 6-year term, it's a 6-year term, not a term for which the legislator at some point decided that we recognize that if we change the retirement age rules, we can shorten it. And I stress: the law cannot shorten the term of office of the constitutional authorities, whether it is the National Council of Courts or the first President of the Supreme Court. And again, this statement may come up: but after all, your first president of the Supreme Court may ask the president to give his consent. Only that the independence of the judiciary and the independence of the first President of the Supreme Court are that it should not be asked in such a situation to ask any other authority, even the guardian of the Constitution, to complete the office during the period for which it was appointed. As far as international standards that are relevant are concerned, the standards that arise either from European law or from the European Convention on Human Rights need to be brought back to the example and the example of the judgment in András Baka v Hungary must be repeated all the time. This was the ruling of the Grand Chamber stating that even constitutional changes in Hungary, which were transferred by the Supreme Court to Kúria, a new body of another name, but with the same powers, should not lead to the shortening of the term of office of the Supreme Court President of András Baki. The President is still more than three years from the end of his term of office. This is a judgment which assesses such solutions from the point of view of human rights standards. And the second sentence worth saying: the Commission's case against Hungary was about shortening the term of office of the Hungarian General Data Protection Officer, in short, as a result of various structural changes. Right here, in the context of the protection of personal data and art. 7 The Charter of Fundamental Rights, the Court of Justice of the European Union stated that shortening the term of office threatens the independence of such an authority. So that there are, I think, very important issues and I would like this to sound again in this House: changes are being made which should not be carried out in this way. I would like to address the countersignation issue for a moment. One of the provisions laid down in the Supreme Court Act refers to the appointment of a person who would be the first President of the Supreme Court at a time when the current President would no longer be in office. Recipe, I presume. If my memory doesn't confuse me, because I don't have it recorded. - I'm sorry, I'm sorry. - I'm sorry. - I'm sorry. The 114th bill provides that it is the President who appoints such a person. Again, if we look at this from the point of view of whether it is possible to act within the limits of the President's powers without the requirement of countersignation, we can have great doubts about it, especially since I think it is a long way from when the President calls someone, to a situation where de facto a new legal institution is being created, which is precisely the person performing his duties for that period. But why am I talking about this? Because once again, there is a risk that decisions that will be taken by a person acting as the first President of the Supreme Court may be called into question. Let us imagine that this person will make business decisions in employment matters, that he will make certain decisions. Will the labour court be able to challenge that? Perhaps so. Perhaps it will happen that the labour court, judging e.g. the decision to terminate the contract of employment shall state: but that person was not duly authorised because he was appointed without the countersignal of the President of the Council of Ministers. This countersignation is not just a technical issue, but it is an issue that is important from the point of view of building the independence of the judiciary. We have the principle of three divisions of authorities, art. 10 constitutions, and this principle assumes that we should not pass on important decisions to the executive authorities concerning how courts work or how courts are filled. And that, unfortunately, causes this kind of reflection. So I would like to stress that this kind of solution may raise constitutional doubts. I would also like to refer to what will result from the adoption of the Supreme Court Act. The result will be a change in the internal organizational structure of the Supreme Court. On the one hand, there will be a Disciplinary Chamber, which can be doubted whether it will not be de facto a separate court within the Supreme Court, separated by a specific organisational structure, on the basis of a remuneration of 40%. greater, for autonomy, to a large extent organisational autonomy in relation to the Supreme Court And to the extent that the principle of autonomy of the Supreme Court threatens in itself, because within the Supreme Court a chamber is formed with, practically, a different structure. That's one thing. And the second point is Art. 26 law which determines the jurisdiction of the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs. At this point, I would like to focus on what these public affairs are. Public matters are issues relating to mining, telecommunications, energy, competition and consumer protection, but also matters relating to radio and television, concerning the validity of elections, the validity of referendums. To date, the Chamber of Labour, Social Insurance and Public Affairs has dealt with this in the Supreme Court. This House has built, for years, a doctrine, a way of dealing with these issues, and there are experienced judges specialised in such matters. This is a chamber which, I would like to stress, has dealt with, among others. evaluation of the validity of elections. It is worth mentioning, for example, two resolutions of the Supreme Court adopted just by the Chamber of Labour, Social Insurance and Public Affairs: a resolution of 16 July 2003 on the validity of the accession referendum to the European Union and a resolution of the Supreme Court of 19 September 2016 on the validity of the elections to the Sejm and the Senate. I do not need to convince the High House how important the resolution on the validity of the accession referendum was, we all know that this was a historic moment for Poland. But I would like to draw attention to this second resolution. In this case, the allegation was that the parliamentary elections were invalid because the Committee for the Election of Law and Justice took part in them, and the lists of the Committee for the Election of Law and Justice to the Sejm and the Senate included persons belonging to other parties, i.e. to Solidarna Poland and the Polish Party Total Jarosław Gowin. There was this charge, and the question was whether the elections were valid, since perhaps the voters were misled, because the name of the committee was different from that of the candidates who were on the lists of the Election Committee on Law and Justice. The Supreme Court has ruled: elections are important. In an independent, impartial way, the court considered: this is consistent... and that it is not in this respect the role of the Supreme Court to verify what agreements were, internal arrangements between the representatives of each party. This shows the role of the Supreme Court He's an arbiter when there's doubt when there's disputes, when there's issues that are of public interest. Why am I talking about this? Because all those things about the importance of choices, radio and television, and so on. will be transferred to the Chamber of Extraordinary and Public Affairs, which will be re-created, completely re-created. It's not gonna be like the last judges are gonna be left, we're gonna co-opt the new ones, we're gonna increase the squad, and we're gonna continue to work. We're gonna start this room all over again. And this is also about radio and television matters. Well, in recent days, it's hard to find a better example of how important radio and television matters are than the last decision the justification of which was announced yesterday. Of course, the way to the Supreme Court is far, because on the way there is the District Court in Warsaw, the Court of Appeal in Warsaw, but at the end of this largest, most important arbitrage setting rules, which determines the interpretation of the rules will be the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs of the Supreme Court. So that's it... Its actions will be important from the point of view of standard-setting. In this context, it is worth pointing out how this Chamber will be created. Well, of course, it will be created in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Constitution, i.e. the request of the National Judicial Council in terms of vacant positions, and it will be the President's decision to appoint judges. But we must bear in mind that, in accordance with the provisions of the Supreme Court Act, there will be the possibility of sending judges to the Supreme Court with a 10-year internship. And now someone could say: but of course, the judges sent to the Supreme Court are an institution known for years... There is no better way to verify whether the judge is fit than to appoint, for example, a judge. A good judge of the appellate court for a delegation to the Supreme Court and check him in battle, check him out in practice. But please note, the bill waives the requirement that it be a judge of the district court or of the appeal court, only provides that it may be a judge with a ten-year internship. Therefore, this may also include the judges of the regional court. We can quite seriously imagine a situation in which the judges of the district court with a 10-year internship will be appointed to the Supreme Court. This bill will make it possible. The Act introduces another solution, namely up to 30% of the composition of the delegation judges. Up to 30% of the squad. So this could happen, for example. the cast of these new chambers, whether it's the Disciplinary Chamber, whether it's the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs, will be new, they will be filled by these delegated judges, and only later will there be a procedure for filling vacant judicial posts. If we look at the Supreme Court's opinion on the Supreme Court's Law on the Supreme Court, we will find there such a very interesting passage, this is point 9.2 of the opinion that the Minister of Justice has not recently sent judges to the Supreme Court. The question arises: why? Why has this practice not been continued in recent years? I'll leave that question open. Perhaps this is a question similar to the question of why the Minister of Justice has not recently announced competitions for vacant judicial positions and 800 posts remain vacant. When we talk about posting, we still have to point to the article. 111 §4 of the Supreme Court Act. This provision concerns the appointment of a person who will direct the Chamber or the Supreme Court until the appointment of a new First President of the Supreme Court or new Presidents of the Supreme Court. We must bear in mind that if, during this period of transition, a person is appointed to perform his duties, it is by linking this possibility that there will be someone who performs his duties and the possibility of sending judges to the Supreme Court can in principle be cast for a certain period of time by certain chambers of the Supreme Court, and it cannot simply be ruled out that it is up to the Delegated Judges to fill these new chambers. I would like to move on to the next issue, namely the question of a disciplinary officer. What is the foundation of disciplinary responsibility is that it is, in a sense, autonomous responsibility. In order to be able to talk about disciplinary responsibility, there must be ethical principles that are respected. Ethical principles are established within a specific professional group: lawyers establish their own lawyers It's my own, the doctors. Your own, the judges. Your own prosecutors. It's my own. If this is the case, it means that disciplinary authorities are also formed on such a basis, that disciplinary bodies are shaped so that, in a sense, colleagues can judge each other. And there's no exception. It follows from the rich case law of the Constitutional Court that this also applies to judges. Of course, it is possible to create such a solution. and this is absolutely acceptable, even in line with the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights For example, at the end of disciplinary proceedings, he should examine: an independent court. These are old cases, Van Leuven and De Meyere against Belgium, still in the 1970s, 80s, decided by the European Court of Human Rights. Why am I talking about this? Because the bill introduces a breach, a breach that allows the President to appoint an extraordinary disciplinary officer not only from among judges but also from prosecutors. And I would like to repeat here: do we really want to make e.g. Disciplinary action in the case of lawyers was conducted by a prosecutor? Would we like the prosecutor to conduct disciplinary proceedings in the case of doctors? Let him conduct criminal proceedings, if he is suspected of committing a crime, in such a situation as possible. Because that's the role of a prosecutor: to uphold the rule of law, to conduct criminal proceedings. But not disciplinary proceedings that are based on an assessment of the application of certain ethical standards! So that the introduction of this breach is a violation of the basic rules and principles of disciplinary responsibility. Another very important issue I know, I realize that it is very important for citizens, including the President's Office. The issue of an emergency complaint. I would like to stress, and this is in the opinion that I gave the Senate, that in principle I am able to accept the construction of an emergency complaint. I am able to see that in certain very special situations its introduction may make sense. These could be cases in which, for example, there was no way to file a cassation complaint, civil cases, because we know very well that the cassation complaint to the Supreme Court in civil matters is constructed as rather narrow. These could also be matters relating to the State's liability for violations of civil rights and freedoms, for example. Someone couldn't finish the trial because of some legal error. These may also be matters that the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights writes about in its opinion. The Foundation has been running a program called the Clinic of Innocence for years, and in this context it tries, using various legal possibilities, to acquit people or resume proceedings in cases where it has seen typical judicial errors. Even if we looked around the world... There is a special movement that deals with so-called. misconceptions, that is, misconceptions, undermining those sentences. Moreover, I am also aware that in a situation where our constitutional complaint is constructed as rather narrow, because by means of a constitutional complaint we can only complain that we will prove that the legal standard on which the Constitution is based is incompatible This calls for the creation of the so-called. a general appeal. And probably, in certain situations, an emergency complaint could help, and it would not have to be addressed to the European Court of Human Rights with certain issues, and perhaps it could be useful even in situations where the deadline for submitting an appeal to Strasbourg, or 6 months, has passed. However, I must express my concern that, given the construction of an emergency complaint under this legal act, it poses a risk from the point of view of the stability of the legal system. Why? Because it covers, especially during this transitional period, a period of up to 20 years, i.e. the period from the entry into force of the Constitution. As an ombudsman, I can also express some doubts as to why the date of entry into force of the Constitution was recognised as a border date. I don't know if there was any symbolism in it. I hope not. But no matter what the 20 years are, it's been a long time. Moreover, in many cases, it may be necessary to reconstruct files that have already been destroyed due to archival rules, and in some cases the justification may not have been drawn up at all, for example. the party did not know that it should submit a request for justification. I am showing that it may be very difficult for some cases to return to, you can say, some history from years ago and effectively apply an emergency complaint. I believe that the motivations justifying this institution are right and, as I said, I support these motivations in principle. But I am afraid of how this will work in practice and whether it will actually cause a very large number of people for whom a certain mirage of social justice will be created... But it's just gonna be a mirage, we're not gonna get the effect that was planned. So I'm pointing out that this is a big threat, and I think it should be clearly expressed at this point. The second point concerns how this emergency complaint is to be lodged. So there's a number of so-called. qualified persons who may lodge an emergency complaint. As an Ombudsman, I was also mentioned in this regard. And here I would like to stress that I was very pleased with the position expressed by Minister Warchoł on the night of Monday at the meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions on Tuesday. The Minister has shown very consistently how much on a daily basis the Attorney General is having problems handling all requests for dismissal in criminal matters, how many people are working on it, how much burden it is and what the consequences may be. And Minister Warchoł, speaking of this, pointed out that in such a situation maybe the vacathio legis should either be extended or maybe limit the influx of emergency complaints by creating a requirement of solicitor-radical coercion. So, in human terms, the point is that these people can't turn directly, only that a lawyer, a legal counsel, who, I stress, would then be responsible, personally responsible, and sometimes also disciplinary responsibility for this... The point is not to bother the Supreme Court with matters that don't deserve it. Unfortunately, however, this argument has not been made in further discussion as regards possible amendments, which I regret. And I would like to say to you, the High House, that if a person is applied to the ombudsman, right now, with a request for cancellation, e.g. In a case that ended with a fine, we take it deadly seriously. It's not like you're gonna read the letter and say, "We're not gonna fold anything." This usually means studying decisions, perhaps downloading court files and taking decisions. And yet the Ombudsman's cassations are not limited in time either, and there is no time limit here for criminal cases. There is already a great deal of these requests for cancellation and we have a serious delay in their processing, which unfortunately the Sejm is not responding to, i.e. as I put forward the arguments concerning the budget, these arguments are not being listened to. So that I think it is my duty to now draw attention to the practical consequences of the application of this institution. And the consequences are, on the one hand, how this emergency complaint is constructed and what this could mean for the stability of the legal system and, on the other hand, how all of this can be in practice. In the margins, I would like to draw attention to one more aspect of the case. Please note that if we look at the Supreme Court Act, we will notice that the active card to file an emergency complaint also has the Public Prosecutor General of the State Treasury. I have long wondered how we should repair the harm of citizens through the actions of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the State Treasury, which, as a matter of fact, is to represent the interests of the State Treasury and not of citizens, to represent the interests of companies of the State Treasury rather than citizens. Again, the question arises: will the granting of this card to the Public Prosecutor's Office of the State Treasury, in which prominent lawyers work, not serve it so that it is, for example. State Treasury companies will first start knocking on the doors of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the State Treasury and then to the doors of the Supreme Court in order to undermine the various types of decisions which were unfavourable to them? And now if we accept this idea And I respect that very much. That the idea of an emergency complaint is an idea Restoring social justice, repairing harm, I cannot understand how this is supposed to relate to the interests of the State Treasury. I would like to make a statement here to make it sound, in the context of these organisational problems. I therefore believe that it is important that this debate is taking place. The Ombudsman did not receive any additional funds for handling emergency complaints for the next year. Like I said, we're already having problems handling the cassation, and the budget hasn't even been increased for the cassation. And I would like to declare that for the first three months, if the Supreme Court Act comes into force... I hope he doesn't come in. That's why I'm here. But if it came into force, I would like to specify from this procedural caution that, for the first three months after its entry into force, I will be looking at the number of cases that come to me and, depending on the influx of cases, I will ask for an increase in my budget during the financial year. I count very much in this respect to support the President's Office, that the President's Office will support this request, because I am afraid that without these additional resources I will not be able to ensure efficient handling of cases from an emergency complaint. Another point I would like to mention is the subject of exclusive citizenship, the grounds for exclusive Polish citizenship. I listened to yesterday's debate, I was not physically present because of family responsibilities, but on the Internet I watched yesterday's debate and I know that the Minister has examined all possible laws in terms of where the condition of exclusive Polish citizenship appears. I have the impression that we will not find out in this regard, but I believe that this is nevertheless an extremely damaging solution for those who have such and not other family fates, for whom the question of dual citizenship or so-called citizenship. Multiple citizenship is the consequence of such and not of other forms of life. I wouldn't want to be in the skin of people who have to decide whether or not to resign from the judge's office. Not just the Supreme Court judge, but any court, for art. 117 refers to all courts I'm either a judge or I'm a citizen. And here is a great respect for Senator Czerwiński, that yesterday he was so inquisitive about the importance of making a statement, whether it will already be effective and how it will work in practice. I would like to draw attention to another aspect. In Poland there are many outstanding lawyers, lawyers who have dual citizenship, for various reasons, e.g. For family reasons, this is how it's shaped. Some of these people I know, and I could say that as few people deserve to be called patriots. And once this law comes into force, they'll never be able to become judges again, because they'd have to give up a substantial part of their identity. This, in my opinion, is contrary to the article. 60 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which guarantees equal access to public service, could also conflict with the European Convention on Citizenship. High Izbo, let me end by sharing with you a general reflection on the importance of judicial independence. Because we can discuss specific issues, but this is a debate that concerns the future of our state system. I would like to stress with all my power that discussion on these issues is not a matter of only abstract, for the interest of academics or politicians, but it is important for the average citizen of the Republic of Poland, because the role of the courts is to intervene when citizens need to be helped when they have to stand up on his side in confrontation with the country's machine, when it is necessary to balance the powerful influence of the state apparatus and the emerging restrictions on the exercise of our freedoms and civil rights. Moreover, this impact is so important that, in recent years, by law, which has not been audited by the Constitutional Tribunal, and in the meantime have been e.g. quite well analysed, for example, by the Venice Commission, the powers of the State are increasing. Let's take a look at the opinion of the Venice Commission on 8 December, which concerns the law of the prosecutor's office. The Venice Commission points out not only that this is a threat to the functioning of the prosecution and that the current legislation does not comply with international standards, but also that this combination of functions in the hands of the Minister of Justice and the Prosecutor General poses a threat to the independence of the judiciary. Let's take a look at telecommunications law. The issue here is the retention of telecommunications data, the use of Internet data The anti-terrorist law, which has also been challenged and which significantly extends the scope of the State's influence on the citizen, the Civil Service Act, etc., etc. The state apparatus grows stronger every day, and how it grows stronger, it is not subject to sufficient, independent, full control by the Constitutional Court. The state is growing because the police, the prosecutor's office, the special forces are granted additional powers. It also grows because we are living in a time when the use of modern technologies and hierarchical subjugation ensuring a specific efficiency makes the state strong, very strong towards the citizen. The citizen is getting weaker, the citizen has no tools of natural defence, and the only shield should be the courts for him. After all, a citizen cannot face a policeman, a clerk, a legislator on his own. He needs assurance that he will be able to turn to the third power, to the court. It is the courts in a democratic state of law that are to defend the citizen, but in order for that to happen, they must be independent of this policeman, the official, the politician. They must be independent in order to decide on the temporary arrest and its extension and not be afraid of the prosecutor's whining that the judge does not understand the need to fight crime. They must be independent in order to decide whether to use wiretap and operational control and not be afraid of the rumbles of agents of various services, that the judge makes their work difficult and does not understand the challenges of the modern world. They must be independent in order to determine the responsibility of the public authorities for violating the rights of the citizen, not to wonder whether they should judge compensation from the authorities and not be afraid of the murmurings of the Minister responsible for finance. They must be independent in order to control the prosecution's actions and the quality of their preparatory proceedings and not fear the whining of the prosecutor dissatisfied with the judge's criticism. They must be independent in order not to be afraid of judgments in difficult cases that pose a political or even personal threat to the well-known minister or local party activist. They must also be independent in order to resolve doubts about issues which enter the financial interests of the State and do not fear the consequences of such decisions on the financial position of the State Treasury companies. That's what I talked about in July. Imagine, for example, a situation related to currency loans. After all, the Supreme Court's judgments are fundamental to how responsibility for breaching consumer rights in this area is shaped. At the same time, the state owns the largest bank and has recently taken over other banks and has an increasing share in the banking sector, an increasing loan portfolio. The Supreme Court's judgments are not left in vain because they also matter to the financial results of banks that are the property of the State Treasury. And such examples could be multiplied. The High House dealt with one of the topics which was the subject of citizens' complaints, namely the issue of exhaustion of compensation in the event of a communication accident which occurred before 1993. This is the story in which the amount of compensation from the Insurance Guarantee Fund first amounted to PLN 500 000 and then increased to EUR 5 million. In the case of Mr. Tomasz Piesiecki, this sum was exhausted. and I am grateful to the High House for having taken up this subject and presented the bill, although he has so far been stuck in the process of parliamentary work. Nevertheless, in the so-called. In the meantime, it was the Supreme Court that saw this man's injury, and thanks to the Supreme Court, we are at the stage of rediscovering the case and perhaps Mr. Tomasz Piesiecki, at least one, will have an adequate amount of compensation for the accident. These are complex issues, they relate to human affairs, but the Supreme Court guarantees that it will answer completely independently. It will not look at whether the finance minister, the head of the insurance company or the Insurance Guarantee Fund has a different approach to the subject but will look at the question of harm to the person concerned. The courts must be independent in order to rule on the validity of elections and not be afraid of the pressure of one or another political party dissatisfied with their results. That is why I have stressed the issue of setting up an Extraordinary and Public Affairs Chamber. It raises my deep concern that when you read the entire justification of the bill, you will not find a word about what the Chamber of Labour, Social Insurance and Public Affairs is doing, and you will refer these matters to the Emergency Audit Chamber. Let's see, these are completely different issues. Emergency control issues, i.e. those that are in the area of emergency complaints, are social justice issues, and public affairs are completely different issues. Here we need judges who know about competition protection, energy, on various regulatory issues. And now all of a sudden, they're gonna be in the same room... in the emergency room? It raises my big doubts about what it is supposed to actually serve. The courts must be independent in order to serve the citizens in a responsible manner each day and realize the values reaching the traditions of the Polish statehood, which ensured separation of courts from the king. These are our traditions that go back to old times, and we should remember that. Some might say that the independence of the judge is carried in the heart, that every judge is independent, has an established ethos, which makes this judge always function in the same way, ruled by constitution and laws. I agree with the fact that we should require judges to do so, to educate them in such a way, to stimulate their sensitivity, strength and sense of responsibility, to stimulate in them what demonstrates their deep responsibility towards citizens. However, I would like to stress that the creators of the constitution all over the world, including ours, did not entrust the freedom of citizens only to emotions and feelings of the power hubs. Internal independence, that is, what is in the heart of this judge, this independence, which is desirable and shaped by the ethos of judicial work, is only part of our guarantee. Equally important is the independence of the outside, that is to say, a decent, thorough safeguard of the situation of judges, so that they do not succumb to temptations, threats, fears and other feelings which may accompany the exercise of judicial authority. The guarantees of this external independence, which consist of matters relating to remuneration, the prohibition on political parties and the prohibition of activities which would be contrary to the idea of exercising the office of a judge, the special rules of liability, the prohibition of the transfer of judges without their consent, the guarantees of the irreparability of judges... This is the whole set of guarantees of external independence, which is intended to serve the citizens who are to serve us all. Without these guarantees, we will remain only with the fears, feelings of the judge concerned. The guarantees of external independence are precisely to insure from irrationalness, fear, fear of individual judges. These guarantees are so that the judges do not have this milieu towards the state, as the President of the Supreme Court, Stanisław Zabłocki, stated. In this context and in the context of the examples I gave, I am reminded of the training I conducted for lawyers from Ukraine, Georgia and Armenia 8, 9 years ago. These were training on the one hand on the role of the complaint to the European Court of Human Rights, and on the other on the other hand on the role of various means of investigating the protection of individual rights, constitutional complaint, proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal. I also talked a lot about the liability of the State Treasury, which is what is in the article. 77 constitutions. I told them, "Listen, if your rights are violated, you can go to court. You may be compensated for violating your rights. I've read your constitution, and it's in your constitution. You have the option. And they said to me, "But what do you mean? How can a judge rule against his own state? Although we have such regulations, you are right, but no one takes them seriously, because it is not appropriate to act against their own country. We cannot expect the judge to judge and judge any redress from his own state. That's the perspective. We return to what the Supreme Court judge Stanisław Zabłocki said about serving mentality towards the state. Unfortunately, in the long term, it will cause such thinking: I cannot do anything that could harm my country, I cannot do it because it is not appropriate, because I am afraid, because there are different circumstances that may be that I do not want to be subject to disciplinary responsibility, to the anger of the politician, the minister, my president, the superior. We should never put judges in that position. But unfortunately, three changes to the reform of justice Not only does the Act on the National Courts Council, not only the Law on the Supreme Court, but also the new law on the system of common courts already in force move the border here, change the relationship between the judge and other types of authority. High Izbo, the Supreme Court is the hub of the supreme judicial authority, the most important guarantee of the independence of the judiciary. The limitation of his independence will dismantle the guarantees of the independence of external judges. We will only be committed to the independence of individual judges, to their hearts. And perhaps in such a judge's heart... Perhaps there will be cases where judges will be like diamonds, crystal persons who will defend our freedoms and rights. However, as a spokesman, I must observe that we should not trust blind fate, that we will be lucky and that we will find a judge who will be a crystal judge, the Hercules, who will bear the burden of responsibility on his shoulders for his decisions. It is my duty as a spokesman to observe that interference in warranty procedures and mechanisms that increase our sense of legal security This is precisely the guarantee of the independence of the judge, which can have negative consequences for us. The question is, when are we gonna find out? I would like to stress that only free and independent courts guarantee the protection of civil rights and freedoms, free elections and free Poland. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u76	Thank you, Mr. Spokesman. We continue the discussion. Another speaker for the discussion... [[No, no, Mr. Marshal. Excuse me...]] In what mode, Mr. Marshal, would you like to speak? [[In formal mode.]] There you go... [[I'd like to raise some questions with your spokesperson...]] Mr. Marshal, we're in the middle of a discussion. There are no questions at this stage. You can speak as a debater. [[No, Mr. Marshal, the motion to end the questioning concerned questions to Judge Zabłocki, not to the Ombudsman.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: It was a request for discussion.]] Are you done? [[Yeah, I'm done.]] I remind you, Mr. Marshal, that this was a motion to move on to the discussion and to put an end to the questions. This motion has been voted out. We're in the middle of a discussion. Now everyone can speak in the discussion. Mr. Secretary, tell me who's next for discussion. [[Bogdan Borusewicz.]] Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz is enlisted for discussion. Do you wish to speak? [[Mr. Marshal, I, I think, have been removed by your Marshal Karczewski...]] I'm informing you there are no deletions. The list of persons reported is up to date... [[...and I signed up...]] ...and anyone can be saved, even once again. [[No, I don't want to be rewritten.]] You're on the list, in order... [[I signed up after I crossed out, signed up and waited.]] You're registered, and I'm giving you the floor. There you go, if you wish, you may take the floor in the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is a law that destroys the independence of the Supreme Court, but it is also an introduction to the next law on the electoral code, because it is the Supreme Court which decides the electoral actions that determine the validity of elections at all levels. But I'd like to start with what happened about two hours ago. The majority of the Senate, the Law and Justice, forbade us from asking questions. She forbade us from asking questions when Judge Zabłocki was going to answer these questions. Are you afraid of our questions? Or are you afraid of Judge Zabłocki's answer? This precedent is an extremely damaging precedent for discussion and for the work on this law, and probably also for the next laws. As I understand it, yesterday is the anniversary of the martial law, today is December 14th, so today you can do anything because there is no anniversary - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. It is an outrage to prevent the procedure from being allowed under the rules of procedure envisaged by the regulations. The Rules of Procedure do not provide for the possibility to limit questions. If he had predicted, it would have been a clear record. So I would like to reiterate that we will not accept and protest this type of action, and we will also remember it. It's not like you can do something like this when you're in charge, and when you're in opposition, you can say you're not. It was a mistake. I don't think you're gonna rule for another term. But it seems like you're sure, otherwise you wouldn't be doing this kind of formal procedure. I'll get back to the bill. The Act is clearly, unambiguously contrary to the Constitution. Well, since the Constitution states that the term of office of the President of the Supreme Court lasts six years and shortens the ordinary law, the ordinary law, that is contrary to the Constitution. Plus, in violation of the constitution, it changes the constitution. You don't have two-thirds to change your constitution. You're doing it again by ordinary law. Once again, because there is a similar procedure in the Act on the National Judicial Council. The record says four-year term, and you're what? You're shortening this four-year term. Well, about that bill, it's still open to discussion, but here's a clear record: six years. The child can, Mr. Marshal, count to six, and if not, it is necessary to ask anyone to do the proper teaching. This precedent may cause all other records that speak of the term of office of other authorities to be touched. What are the constitution's provisions? Shall I remind you? And the five-year term of office of the president? And the four-year term of office of the Member and the Senator? Well, you can imagine that a senator should have... that a senator or a Member should only be until he's sixty-five. Can you imagine? It was not yet possible to imagine such a situation and such a record. Today it's not just a question of imagination, today it's reality. You destroy legal procedures, you destroy law enforcement, you destroy the rule of law in Poland, that is, you destroy democracy. Because democracy is not only elections, free elections, but it is also the application of the law, it is also the recognition that the law stands above all: above the Member, above the Senator, above the President and beyond the President. More than anyone in Poland! The Venice Commission has a clear view of these changes, a negative opinion. The European Parliament has already signaled and followed the rule of law infringement procedure on several occasions. The law firm... or, rather, the legal specialists, our senate officials, have clearly indicated a violation of the Constitution, including this six-year term. The Sejm specialists are the same. I heard from the U.S. Department of State again, and it's the second time I've heard from him. The State Department, which is now subject to another president. President Obama spoke very carefully about this earlier, but now we have a new President of the United States. And this ally you're calling for, our most important political and military ally, which I am also calling for, has made it clear that this is a violation of the rule of law. He didn't say it very diplomaticly anymore. But you don't listen, you don't listen to all those voices. You accuse those who say so in Poland and so evaluate this situation and these actions, unlawful actions carried out by means of the established law. You judge them and say traitors. Yes? With the United States, we're cheating on Poland, right? That's how I've been judged and determined by the communist authorities and how I hear those words today... Those are the words I'd love to put in a shambukh. If that's the case, we're looking for a trial. Traitors are reckoned. Aren't you guys doing it yet? Oh, that's what you need courts for, of course. That's what you need courts for. [[Time's up.]] Also the Supreme Court. [[There's nothing to be afraid of.]] Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, Mr. President, Mr. Spokesman, you are listening to the discussion and taking part in this discussion. I understand that you may have different opinions, but, Minister, since such institutions and so many of these institutions say... [[Time's up, Senator.]] ...that these laws violate the constitution, that is, violate the fundamental law, change the constitution illegally 'Cause it's not the procedure that changes the constitution... And you think you're pretending like nothing's going on. So what's it gonna take to make you see it? Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u78	Thank you. The next speaker is Senator Tight. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u79	Free courts. Free elections. Free Poland. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Dear guests! The Law on the Supreme Court, like the National Council of the Court of Justice, is already worrying, but even the certainty of many legal backgrounds as to the non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The views of well-known lawyers who have reached Parliament's legislative offices do not leave any illusions about this issue. The senators who raise their hand in voting in favour of this project will do so with the awareness that they are adopting a law contrary to the basic law. In this situation, every senator who respected the oath he took by accepting the Senator's mandate, and in which I would remind him of his commitment to uphold the Constitution and other rights of the Republic of Poland, should know that there is no alternative. It must vote against the adoption of draft laws on the National Judicial Council and on the Supreme Court. And no excuse can be the power of the majority. Because whether or not the constitution is being violated does not decide by a majority, but by arguments. Unfortunately, there was no time to analyse the arguments in the Senate, the House of Reflection. That's no excuse for anyone. This is an accusation! Mr. Senator, if you vote in favour of the bill, you will vote in favour of the murder of free courts. Apart from the undisputed contradiction with the constitution, the law also brings to the judicial and political sphere many completely illogical and harmful solutions, e.g. 65-year-old barrier. Once this age has been reached, the Supreme Court judge will only be able to continue his duties with the agreement of the President of the Republic of Poland. This provision is so clear that it contradicts easily perceived correctness that it is hard to believe that it was created with good will. The age of 65 is often an apogee of experience, vitality and resistance to external influences, that is, everything on which you can build a high quality brand of judge. It is no wonder, then, that many see in this provision a simple method of revenge for the first President of the Supreme Court, who has just reached the age of sixty-five, a way to immediately end her term of office, and a gateway to the exchange of staff for younger, probably less experienced, but his judges It's a rule: maybe a lousy one, but it's its own. Another dangerous social and systemic solution is the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs, which will deal with inter alia. electoral protests and will state the validity of elections and referendums. If we consider that the Chamber will be filled with judges designated by the PiS without problems, it is easy to see how powerful the governing tool they create A tool that can often directly create an election result. And I have no doubt that the Law and Justice will be able to use this tool. This shows why we should be afraid of the proposed changes in the Supreme Court and in the judiciary in general. Bad law will kill free elections. There is also no reason to assume that such a law is created with the belief that the ruling Polish party will not think about the political exploitation of the possibilities that this new law creates. In order to prevent such situations, it should be assumed that the law is intended to protect the country and society from the misuse of its records by people of bad will. It seems, or rather, I am sure that this principle has been deliberately omitted, because the law does not have to deal with holy people at all. I gave only these two facts which create dangerous precedents for Poland and which only strengthen the expectation and hope that the draft of this very bad and dangerous act with the voices of a united coalition of reason will never be passed by the Senate after all. But if the law is passed, passed, there will be rape against the Polish constitution, rape not nameless, but rape signed by senators by name. And for this rape, for the misappropriation of the oath you have made, you will have to bear the responsibility. Free Poland may be adjourned, but it will absolutely enforce it. Free courts! Free elections! Free Poland! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u80	Senator Mieczysław Augustyn speaks.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u81	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I regret that I could not ask the judge here many very important questions that the ministers of the President could not answer last night or gave a incomplete answer. Yesterday and today you couldn't ask full answers. And to be honest, I am hardly surprised that today good customs have been broken, gagging the voice of the opposition, that I think the rules have been violated, because we are talking at a time when yesterday and today we were persuaded that the violation of the constitution and independence of judges and courts is also a freak and nothing wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, here I have been asking about various issues yesterday and today, looking at legal proposals not from the legal side, because I am not a lawyer, but from the impact side, because every week I accept, like every senator, people who are dissatisfied with justice and judgments. And, of course, we would like to accept in good faith the assurance that these proposals serve to strengthen the position of the citizen, to protect him from various institutions, from various abuses, which would be to be found in the face of the court. But, ladies and gentlemen, when you look at the effects of these proposals, it is only then that you see true intentions. Well, ladies and gentlemen, what good will it be for citizens to try arbitraryly, without giving a reasonable justification, using the pretext of "what is disgusting in itself" to replace the Supreme Court with 40% ? Why would that be? Yesterday, we were discussing a mechanism that would make this possible. Will this in any way strengthen the citizen's position? No. This is where my friends spoke before me... This will strengthen your position, Minister, Mr. Spokesman, not so many countries. I'd argue with that. - How much power? The state should stand up for the citizen, and where the prerogatives of the state, in particular, the authorities, are concerned with its interests and not about the interests of the citizens. This is the case in this case, because these additional prerogatives granted to the President with a complete disregard for constitutional rules, allowing him to influence who will really be at the head of individual chambers, how they will be shaped, what regulations they will have, how they will work. Nor do they serve citizens. Not at all! This is an attempt to politicize the justice system in this very sensitive place that all the judges are looking at, all the courts, that is, the Supreme Court. And that's why it arouses such emotions and such opposition. So the question remains, what really is behind this parade of change. Well, ladies and gentlemen, if we realise that the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs, which will be autonomous towards a court which can be shaped under political dictation, is to deal with the validity or nullity of elections, to deal with personal data protection issues, to deal with the issue of electronic media and the conduct of the National Council of Radiophony and Television This National Council, which has so appalled the world by the decision concerning TVN, we see what it is done for! That's the direction! But this isn't the direction to give us the rights to make you stand up for us. No, it is so that the authorities can make decisions that will not be subject to judicial review, because the court will be politically controlled by then. It is similar with the Disciplinar Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, discipline among the judges maybe, as anywhere, would be useful. Abuse must be branded, but first it would have to be proved that today it is not done that it is wrong. And don't use three or four examples here that have been posted on billboards, mostly used arguments from long-term cases that have been used again as a screen and a pretext for attacking the entire state of justice. I said here before, on the issue of the National Radio and Television Council: this is deadly for the legal order, including the one you want on your side. Nobody's gonna want to believe a judge like that. This Disciplinary Chamber, with such autonomy, with the involvement of jurors, is in my opinion not a means of discipline, but an additional means of pressure to reduce the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges. That's what this is all about, and it's gotta be exposed. It's gotta be said. It's clear. I admit that, like your spokesperson, I have a problem with assessing proposals for an emergency complaint. Never mind the legal arguments, the fact that these competences overlap and so on. What do these grieving people come to me with? First of all, with the fact that these processes cannot be completed, that it takes so long. After all, we are still talking about the fact that chronicity is the first and greatest sin of the Polish judiciary. Now let's look at the effects to see the intentions. The result will be this: introducing a new instance, giving it such a long time to verify judgments, we further prolong the whole process. I suspect that in our offices some time later, three years later. There will be people who will complain that their emergency complaint has not resulted or that it has not been dealt with. That's what's gonna happen. Why was an extraordinary revision of the Polish Republic's relic abolished once? That's because he didn't work out that we had to cut the road short. And now it's back to that... Of course, if the face of these changes is D.D.A. Peterovich, then why not return to such patterns? He remembers it well, maybe he suffocated the authors of the idea. Ladies and gentlemen, we would like citizens to be strong on the justice system. Perhaps the jury is this way, but let's look at the results. If jurors are invited to adjudicate on such complex legal matters that have already gone all the way, and the same requirements as for jurors of regional or district courts are required, then some training is sufficient... I mean, every reasonable man. He doesn't have to be a doctor of law. He'll say it's nonsense. They'll probably be, in some residual part, cases where the jury might have something to say, but a dozen cases will be cases of such complexity that there's absolutely no way he's going to be useful there. So again, we have a record that is a fake that is supposed to cover something up, blur something, rather than respond to real social needs. [[Time's up, Senator.]] Mr Marshal, to conclude this first speech, I would like to say and stress that the analysis of the nipples of this law reveals its true intentions, and these true intentions boils down to this: this is the next stage After the general courts, after the National Radio and Television Council... [[Voice from the courtroom:...Council of the judiciary.]] ...the dismantling of the system of independent courts and judicial independence in Poland. [[Thank you...]] A colleague here wrote that the courts should be free of criminals... I have a vague feeling that if they're free from the criminals we'd like to judge, they'll probably be filled with innocent people you'll want to judge. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u82	Mr. Senator, time's up. You have a voice, Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u83	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I also signed up for this debate as a person who wants to ask questions about important matters and take advantage of the presence of both the President of the Supreme Court and the Ombudsman. The Sejm Bureau noted this fact and not only took note of it, but considered that I had the right to do so. [[Are you talking about the Seym or the Senate?]] Oh, the Senate, I'm sorry. I suspect it will be similar in the Seym. But for now, I'm talking about the Senate, which means my requirement is bigger. The Senate Bureau recognised this right and then suddenly changed the rules of the game during the meeting and I was not allowed to ask that question. Let me say that even football fans or football fans don't do it because they don't agree that the game ends when their friends are victorious when their team is leading. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, although I do not know which marshal decided this, but surely you are well aware of it, it is well known But there's no point in reminding it. That breaking the rules of the democratic parliament, including the Senate, is also breaking the rules of the democratic rule of law. And it's not enough to draw a mandate from a loyalist attitude here. Probably in 1946, the Nuremberg Court, at its third hearing, ruled that loyalty was not a sufficient value to rule the state. [[Applause]] You and not only you, but all those who have gone to the elections with the motto of moral renewal in political life should be aware that it is not loyalty, not papers written or from the constitution, or from laws, but the evil that is done here in this House is the basis of our assessment and not just ours. You will be judged not by following the rules, but just as we are all judged for doing evil. And you've done me wrong because you've crossed me off the list of questions. I understand that tactics are used, that the executioner doesn't ask for the sentence of the convicted man. Moving on to a bill that we can still talk about... Although some have taken the right to vote, especially those to whom this right is to apply, in such a form that they are to go away according to the slogan 'Fuck off, Grandpa!', since here we are talking about people who are deserved not only for legislation, but also for moral attitudes that have done good, which have fought even greater evil than even what is happening in this room. You're scared. You're not just afraid of the truth, you're afraid of the knowledge. And today's law Well, you, Mr. Marshal, are an example of this. This is not just the sum of votes. In the process of democratic law-making, the idea is that the people, the voters, really decide, but there is also a broad public opinion, including scientists. When they're silent, the people don't know how to decide. You're closing the Senate's doors right in front of scientists, before practices. You're afraid of these people. You made a jump with an election act. And even in the Constitution, Mr. Czerwiński, because you paid attention to it, nowhere is it written that the Sejm is the supreme force of the nation, and especially its members. The Sejm has the task of creating law within a democratic state and is intended to ensure the participation of citizens. And you, the state, have erased the citizen. A citizen to whom others have given a great title, the title of President representing the Supreme Court. It's a crime, it's a shame! Under this law, Minister Mucha consistently, lying to the High House that the condition of change is a state of emergency in the judiciary, consisting of corruption and nepotism, presents in a kind of legal slalom which could be sporty compared to master Bachleda's slalom The question of how to give this legal form. This is indeed the great effort of Minister Fly and his accompanying Minister. Indeed, it is not enough to thank him for this legislation as much as to draw attention to it. He compared apples and pears. And this is the term of office of the President of the Court or of the Chairman of the National Judicial Council for the lino-jumper, and this is for the Teacher's Charter, and this is for the prosecutor, mixing apples and pears. That way, you can prove the fish walk. Because how do the eels from the closed tanks swim into the Sargass Sea? Apparently, they're walking, but they don't have legs. Yeah, the constitution doesn't say, for example. About that... It says that the term of office of the Sejm and the Senate lasts four years, but nowhere does it say that we are to sit in this House for four years. There's a lot of writing about our different rights and powers. Well, how, Minister, couldn't this be the method, since we've cut down on these different terms in the National Courts Council, also allow a Member to lose his right to be a Member after two or three disciplinary penalties? It's not written anywhere in the constitution. And sadly, Mr. Marshal may lose... [[It's not forbidden.]] ...because you're a senator first and then a marshal later. [[Don't tell me.]] I'm not hinting. It is very easy to prove that comparing a Member to a vet or to the chairman of the judo union, the term of office can be shortened. That's the president's thought. Well, unfortunately, all of them. Contrary to what they're saying here, who'll come for the PiS and come... I hope they don't follow that rule. And above all, as the Nuremberg example shows, they will be guided by good rather than evil. Apparently, yesterday, you were laying wreaths on the grave of a man who was also subject to law. After all, the search at Father Popieluszko's was lawful. [[Time's up, Senator.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u84	You have a voice, Senator Bobko. [[Voice from the hall: It may still be standing up for this applause...]] [[Voice from the hall: You always get up, like the clappers...]] [[What kind of comment is that?]] Please remain calm. [[Well, the lowest chamber is in charge...]] Mr. Senator, please don't disturb me. Nobody bothered you. [[Yes, Mr Kalet doesn't mind, and we do?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u85	Mr. Marshal! Dear guests! High Izbo! What can be added to this discussion? Firstly, with regard to the statements of my predecessors, I would like to think from this place on my behalf, and even I am convinced that also on behalf of my colleagues in Law and Justice With all my power to remind you... to speak about intentions. These impudent intentions are completely wrong, maybe that's it. Maybe in these emotions we forgot what is going on, maybe we forgot that the functioning of the justice system in Poland in recent decades is not satisfying anyone. Changes are needed, as the state has often declared. That's what we forget about here. Impressing us with these wicked intentions is inappropriate, or at least very exaggerated. That's the first thing. Second thing. In this context, it is important to express our thanks and respect for the President's Office for this initiative relating to the preparation of new laws concerning the National Judicial Council and the Supreme Court. Focusing on one element, which I also raised in July, when we discussed those laws together in the High House, I regret to say that at least one element, which seems to remain most evidently in a certain lack of conformity with the Constitution, It is about the term of office, the term of office, the fulfilment of this term by the first President of the Supreme Court, which is written directly in the Constitution... Unfortunately, in this newly prepared bill this defect has not been removed. What we do with this remains to consider each and every one of us as senators. Well, it remains possibly... This will probably also be considered by the Constitutional Court. I do. That's what I said back in July. That no matter how the Senate votes... This is where the procedure doesn't end. Then it caused some smiles or jokes from the opposition. But July showed that the Senate procedure wasn't over. There may still be different scenarios, since the Constitutional Tribunal operates in a normal way. And a certain remark to us about the Senate itself. Ladies and gentlemen, if at least some senators have doubts and belief that something in the bill could be improved... The question is whether the Senate has authority and power to try to do so in a serious way. Unfortunately, I'm saying... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...watching and analysing our discussion about the package of these 2 laws, which lasts, with night breaks, it's been 48 hours since we started... More than that, if we count the committee's working time. As I say, this discussion in the plenary room has already been going on for 2 days. So the allegations that someone is shutting their mouths here or that someone is not allowed to speak are very much exaggerated in this context. I'm just gonna ask you a question. I'm not gonna answer that. Does the course of this discussion, the method of proceding, asking questions give us, so to speak, reasons for satisfaction and builds our authority as Senate or not? I propose that each of us taking part in this discussion answer this question to ourselves. Well, I'm not gonna answer that. And last but not least, one more point. If this law is adopted, if it comes into force, then, ladies and gentlemen, again these... all of this, well, tumult here I want to use the gentle words of the end of democracy, the assassination of freedom, etc... Let's not overdo it. It's happening again. I talked about it in July, I talked about it on other occasions. Let's not pull out the cannon, let's not shoot from the cannon when there's really no reason for that. Without satisfaction, we can conclude that in the last 26 or 27 years we have unfortunately faced at least a few cases of non-compliance by the state authorities as well. But for now, we live in freedom and let's appreciate it. So that these appeals that I'm sending to us here, to the opposition, to us... In fact, I do it with less and less optimism after 2 years of our operation, but, well, there's nothing left for me to say with words like that, so that we all, each of us, according to our responsibilities, will try to act in favour of the seriousness of the place where our constituents have directed us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u86	You have a voice, Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u87	Mr. Marshal, I'm gonna pour myself some water because I'm always... [[Well, well, well.]] [[You gonna talk for an hour?]] No, Mr. Senator, less. I promise you, it'll be shorter. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen, magistrates! Mr. Spokesman! Dear guests! Since we have a period of Advent, it can be said, the Christmas season, I will no longer refer to all the arguments that my predecessors have spoken about, which you have spoken of by the judge, Mr President, Mr Spokesperson. I'd like us to try to get in the mood a little, try to talk to each other. For a good start I would like to quote, read these words: Christmas is a great holiday for us. A celebration of hope, which brings much peace and balance. Our Christmas is connected with the hope of building a just, prosperous, right Poland, where there should be no quarrel at the tables where we should talk to each other. That's what you said to Marshal Karczewski today at the Christmas meeting. What's been going on here, I'm not gonna comment any more so I don't mess up the mood. Well, I've got a little split personality not to say I'm shocked. I'm positively shocked. The fact that you can talk in the Christmas atmosphere. Your Senate, I would like to thank here the judge, President Zabłocki, for highlighting the size and role of the Senate. This story, that the Senate is from ancient times a proud word... And to be proud is to bear witness, to build that pride. Let us be proud of what will arise here in the Senate, not proud of what someone will order or command us to do. Thank you, Mr. Spokesman, who has once again shown his authority. In the sense of the information provided And they know. And that is why I would like to say no more about the fact that this bill or these laws do not bring anything positive for each of us, every citizen. They have a character that the senators have spoken of and will probably still talk about. But I would like to read you some passages that, I think, fit into the Christmas spirit, but also reflect what we should talk about: that free courts, if we consider them to be a measure of freedom... It's just that there's no freedom without free courts. I will recall a few sentences that were uttered in New York on October 5, 1995. Freedom is a measure of human dignity and greatness. Living in the conditions of freedom is a great opportunity for the spiritual development of man. Freedom is not simply a lack of tyrannical power and pressure, nor does it mean freedom to do everything we want to do. Freedom is based on truth and authority, separated from truth, and is born in political life into violence of stronger power and arrogance of power. Those words were spoken by the sleeper. John Paul II, speaking at the United Nations headquarters on 5 October 1995 I wish we could all keep that in mind. [[Start with each other.]] Please? [[Voice from the room: Start with each other.]] A free man said that. Ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, now a few words about the freedom that John Paul II included in the encyclical Evangelium Vitae. Natural freedom is also a great threat to democracy itself, the rule of law and to every area of social life. This perverted freedom is a threat. The concept of perverted freedom leads to a profound distortion of social life. If the promotion of my own self, i.e.: mine is the most important, without the ability to discuss and produce the common good, is understood in terms of absolute autonomy, it inevitably leads to the negation of another person; it is perceived as an enemy. I will no longer invoke other terms which the Holy Father has not said, of course, but which must be defended. From the words which the Holy Father has spoken, it is worth recalling such words: there is no freedom without responsibility and without love of truth. And what was the subject of many authorities was an element... entirely devoted to responsibility and truth. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this period I would like to address the voters, all voters, but especially the voters of Law and Justice. Wishings will flow from us, of course, during other meetings, but also... I decided to use as little of my words here as possible, and as many words of authority as possible, people of great wisdom and truth. I would like to address all of us, but especially the voters of Law and Justice, to quote Ignacy Krasicki, who addressed Poles and wrote in a fairy tale: "What are you crying about? You've got a better cage than in the comfort field. You were born in it, said the old man. So I will forgive thee; I was free today in a cage. And that's why I'm crying. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u88	Thank you very much. You're Marshal Sewerinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u89	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'd just like to bring up a few things. There are many such issues that have already been raised here, yesterday and today, there would be no time to refer to each of them, but I think there are a few of them that I wanted to draw attention to and I paid attention to as rapporteur. Which is worth mentioning once again, and in any case, according to the Latin paramia of audiences et alter pars, so also listen to the other party, so that another argument can also be presented, which contrasts to the one which has already been presented here in abundance. I'll start with legal matters that are extremely important, such as the President's scope of prerogatives. In the various statements that I have been able to follow since the Human Rights Committee dealt with these laws, there are allegations that certain powers which give the President the Supreme Court Act or the earlier one, but mostly the Supreme Court Act, do not fall within the category of the President's prerogatives and, moreover, this extension could have occurred in one of the opinions so carefully it was written The Court of Justice's dependence on the executive authority in connection with the countersignation mechanism. But I would like us to take into account that the experts quoted here and mentioned in one of the opinions in the number 7 are not unanimous, they are not in agreement in their opinions as to whether this is really the case or whether these extended prerogatives pose a threat to the judiciary. The first point is: they say that there is such a thing as a prerogative derived from constitutional prerogatives, which is closely related to these constitutional ones. Not all agree on the relevance of this reasoning, but such reasoning is presented. I would add to that a kind of reasoning that, as far as the President is concerned, here is the argument that to whom more is allowed, to whom also less is allowed. If the President can appoint a judge, all the more so in his authority, it is in those prerogatives that the President may extend this judge once he has been appointed to take office. So much for the president's prerogative. There is certainly one thing we can say for sure: the views of the experts on this matter are divergent. The judge's retirement age. This is a matter of statutory competence. Constitution in Article. Point (b) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 4 says it's supposed to be a common law, not a constitution. And this is an exception to the principle of inextricability of the judge, because it is clearly stated that reaching the age of retirement causes exclusion from the judicial corps. Under these circumstances, the charge related to lex retro non agit was also raised, that the act does not work backwards. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a dogma, because it is possible to give at least a few examples, and it is constitutional, as well as related to other laws, that the act works backwards when it clearly says so. After all, not so long ago the rules of serving as a judge have been changed, the possibility of increasing the age of retirement has been introduced. These new rules have worked backwards because they have been referred to all judges, including those appointed earlier. Oh, it was beneficial, no one questioned it, and it was undoubtedly a reverse action, this law increasing retirement age was an exception to the principle of lex retro non agit. This brings together the issue of the first President of the Supreme Court, which is so turbulently presented here. Undoubtedly, it is written in the Constitution that it is a 6-year term. But the law itself provides for a shortening of this term of office, the possibility of failure to fulfil it, when the President himself resigns, when the state of health does not allow him to perform his duties and... I'm not going to talk about other situations like death anymore. There is, ladies and gentlemen, a discrepancy between us and the experts on the interpretation of this provision. To me is the argument, which I have briefly put forward here, and which I will now repeat. In order to perform any functions in the judicial profession, you have to be a judge with full rights, you have to be a judge in an active state. The transition to rest means that the judge ceases to be an active judge and therefore cannot perform any functions, either judicial or managerial, and therefore cannot continue the term of office of the first President of the Supreme Court at this point in time. Of course, it must be pointed out that the law does not interfere with the constitution, it does not simply shorten this term of office, it still remains constitutional, but clearly states that, as a result of the transition to rest, certain functions cannot be exercised by judges. There's also an emergency complaint. This is, ladies and gentlemen... I won't say it again, but one thing's for sure. Gentlemen, senators. - Some senators. They repeat that desperate people come to their offices who have reservations about the justice system. I'm sure we have to say to each other boldly, no one who loses in court is happy. And comes with a complaint. However, we are talking about cases of gross injustice, screaming injustice. And in the face of those emergency measures that are, we are sometimes powerless, even if we are convinced of something. I think that the Ombudsman has dealt with such matters and knows that under the law we are powerless. This emergency complaint is supposed to be the answer to our powerlessness. On top of that, it is very strongly encased in the rigor of art. 89, which must be fulfilled so that this complaint can be brought into effect in the first place. I agree with one of the senators who said... I'm sorry, Mr. Spokesman said she wouldn't always be effective. Yeah, well, it's not always gonna be effective, but it's about trying to make amends to some gross mistake in the justice system. There is also the question of opinions of various opinion bodies, international bodies, and, you can say, some public opinion, if it is expressed in newspapers or other media. For me it has always been clear that Poland is bound by the judgments of international tribunals, the European Court of Justice, the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, and only when Poland is a party to proceedings before this tribunal, and all other statements are of the nature of opinions. First of all, it is the Venice Commission, with which I had the opportunity to meet twice at the earlier stage of our parliamentary activities. Well, you have to tell the difference. The voice of the public, the legal opinion... I do not mean to say that these opinions should be disregarded, but it is for the Polish authorities, including the Polish Parliament, that it is ultimately a decision whether and to what extent it will take into account the opinion of the external authorities. In many words, he sounded skeptical. I like it, we should be skeptical when we evaluate the value of those laws that we vote on when we judge their correctness, legality. This is a legitimate attitude: not to accept everything immediately on faith, but to study. However, I think that some of these statements are too far gone. What allows me to think calmly about the future is, first of all, the belief that practice checks the correctness of all the laws that each legislator accepts. If these purposes, which were intended to achieve these changes, are not fulfilled in the light of the law that we propose, then of course we will face the need to change it. I am convinced that these are not the last steps to remedy the justice system that citizens are demanding and that other laws will still be considered. It is a matter for discussion, which should be the first and which should be the second. However, I am convinced that the laws we are waiting for will also come to us, such as the procedural ones, which will at least partially alleviate this great problem of extending judicial proceedings. There is, ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Republic of Poland. And then there's the Court. Our vote will not be final, however, that the question of constitutionality, which is so often raised, or whether non-compliance with the constitution of the provisions of these laws, will be examined, may still be examined at further stages of the legislative procedure. I will conclude these few of my comments with an expression... a kind of political creed, a legal creed. That is, I believe that the vast majority of judges operating in Poland are conscientious, honest people, knowing the law and ruling in an independent manner. And I have this inner conviction, which is the basis for my vote in the future, that these laws on which we are going to vote here, especially after the numerous amendments that have been introduced since the beginning of the legislative process, will not prevent the judges I think of, in order to be independent judges. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Delightful guests! I would like to act in the most constructive spirit and take into account, among others. What you said to the senator, Minister Bobko, and what you said to Professor Seweryński. Nevertheless, my attitude towards this law is definitely critical. In fact, I'm going to start with a general matter that I think is on top of this bill and this whole package of laws, and I'm going to finish with the amendment that I've already made. I'll explain it. Well, what happens in the framework of the reform of the state and, above all, within the framework of the system, I would call it actually I'm not a specialist in law or government, but in completely different areas. The pursuit of enlightened feudalism. We are actually going this way, probably with the goodwill of those who lead it, to universal harmony, to universal happiness and to universal centralization. I assume that's the case with goodwill... Nevertheless, one can ask whether this can be realized or whether it is worth implementing this type of system in the modern world. I have doubts... on the contrary, I don't think it's worth it. And now I'm moving on to more specific matters. The amendment I want to make, and the criticism of the proposed provisions that I intend to amend, concerns one of the points criticised here. There were more of those criticisms. You discussed it with Senator Sewerinski. They concerned: the Disciplinary Chamber, the participation of jurors, the emergency complaint, in general, and also the retirement age and the question of shortening the current term of office of the Supreme Court. Therefore, the amendment and the content of my speech concern Article. 37. In my opinion, in the current situation... Until now, the judges, if they wanted to, could rule without any required consent until they were 70 years old. I believe that reducing this age to 65 years, with the possibility of asking the President for a possible one or more extension of the possibility of ruling, is simply the salute of the judges. This is vassalization, this is an element of feudalism. It's not that those judges who turn to that request and get or don't get it will no longer be free. The point is, they're gonna go bow down to the president and tell him I'm still alive, I'm still thinking, politely acknowledge my usefulness. That's it. It's a vassal, it's not allowed to be done. The amendment I am making allows for this element... at least this one element to be improved and I strongly appeal to the Minister, who represents the President, to recognise this amendment and, if he considers it, to make it so that it can be accepted. It is, in general, a matter of art. 37. In this article in §1 I return to the 70th year of life there. So that's where the 70th year of life is written... However, there is still a matter of asking the President to extend further the possibility of ruling, and here it is exactly as it is. That's up to 76 years. So, Mr. President... This is something extraordinary, this is the age of the bishops, so to speak, the age of the bishops' resignation. And then there would be no vassal element, because there would be continuity. Now they have 70 written down, and then they have 70, and if they're still able to work and it's economical, they can ask the president to have another three years of ruling. Of course, such an amendment causes some minor changes, e.g. in §4, because I delete there after the age of 65 and stays maybe at any time Of course, after obtaining permission to retire, the judge is more than 70 years old during the extended term of office. And, of course, this also requires a change in §5 there I resign from being a woman. Anyone who wants, as I suggest, can retire after the age of sixty. This also requires a revision of the transitional provisions, i.e. in §111, where there are transitional provisions that properly patch that discontinuity which results from those amendments. My argument is that taking this is going to do a lot of things. First of all, there is no way to end the term of office. Secondly, the construction of the President is recognized and exists Mr President agrees to extend his term of office. Thirdly, there are no suspicions that the rule is intentionally introduced in order to quickly list some of the Supreme Court judges, including, for example, First president. In my opinion, it has the same advantages. If you deny it, you might suspect that your intentions are also personal, and I don't think so. So I strongly urge you to accept this because it doesn't offend anyone, and it's gonna take care of a few things. And there is also, I would say rational in the sense of exploiting the experience and potential of the judges who work there. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u92	Thank you very much. Senator Libicki. I don't see your senator. Therefore, I am giving the floor to Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of the presidents! I will start by asking a few questions to the Supreme Court President, but I will formulate my thoughts descriptively, not with a question mark at the end. What gives me permission to do that in a way? Well, the president was teaching in his speech. I don't want to tell you who the Vice-Marshals are. That because he once voted in favour of the Law on the Supreme Court of 2002, he should now a contrario vote against the present law because it repeals that law. It's not like it's completely... One thing doesn't come out of the other. As a matter of fact, I was a Member and a member of a small group of 32 Members who voted against this law in 2002. I was in a Catholic-national circle and a whole circle, five people, voted against then. So I have the right to speak out against that bill and the new one. That's the first point. I will say this: Mr President, I am a little disappointed in your speech. Not for rhetorical reasons It was great. And not for content reasons, so I wouldn't do it. He did, but because of some of the wording and thought patterns you presented. In the first part, there was a rather large passage, Passus, in which you criticized the speech of one of the prominent Members, using this quote. I will quote this quote here. It was a quote from the Sejm, I mean. of the Seym transcript, but we also have it in the Senate transcript. We are not only concerned with structural changes, but also with changes of a personal nature. When I talk about personal changes, I mean that there should be a qualitative transformation of judges who will be people with a service mentality towards the state and nation. And that's a full quote. Unfortunately, then seven times, exactly seven times, Mr President, arguing against this person. No, you may not like her, some have such a relationship with her, and others you used a cut-off quote, namely you used the formulation of a service mentality towards the State. Well, unfortunately, it's not the same. Because if we're talking about something and something, we're talking about the common part. Apparently, the author of this statement was referring to the joint part, that is, the cases in which the judge is to serve the state, but also to the nation. The nation is understood as a general public, so it is about serving the general public, each one individually. Well, of course, if someone prepared this second part and uses a de facto false quote, as some journalists of some media do, it can come to very interesting conclusions, only that they will all be false, based on a false premise, on a false quote. Mr. President, if that's how the subsummations and other reasonings are carried out in the Supreme Court, then I admit that I'm a little... maybe not as disgusted as I am confounded. Well, let's quote one of these crunchy quotes, a quote from you, please, or in a situation where you will find yourself in the so-called. The budget hole, the judges of the service mindset against the state should be dealing with criminal cases? This budget hole could then be easily flooded. Are you suggesting that the author of this statement says: let's get as much out of the citizen as possible, as long as it's good for you? He's talking about something else. He says you have to act for the good of the nation, and for the citizen, and for the state. Mr. President, I really... It's a good thing I didn't vote for that 2002 bill. And there's more to it than that. Perhaps it had a purpose, but it does not affect the legal state. Our discussion does not affect this state, the vote will affect. I found it very interesting to see the wording concerning the interpretation of the unfriendly constitution. What is this interpretation of acts that are unfriendly to the Constitution? This method, this interpretation, is to rip out one rule or even a fragment of one rule from the whole complex of constitutional rules and values. I agree with you all the time. Okay, but one step further, or actually even earlier, the President unfortunately used such an unfriendly interpretation of the Constitution. You were talking to the president about a famous art. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 of the Constitution, defining the six-year term of the first President of the Supreme Court, as having the law of nature, as something indisputable, abstracting from the rest of the Constitution. You don't see the rest of the constitutional regulations. You were right to say that this provision cannot be amended by sub-regulations to the Constitution, that is, by ordinary laws. Okay, but the constitution, as you said yourself, needs to be read whole. You have to read all the articles, the whole system. And what art talks about. Point (b) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: Four? The law sets the limit of the age after which the judges are put to rest. It's a constitution, too. Or is it just a little less? Of course, it's also a constitution. And the other rules... But let's leave the other ones, because there's no time for that. What does that mean? That means the embodiment. Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, It gives the ordinary legislator the right to determine the age after which the judges retire. Our legislator proposes this age of 65 years. Another question is that you can argue, prove whether it's the right age or not, etc. But that's the law, that's the constitution. If the law determines that age at 65 years and the person concerned exceeds that age, the person will retire, will cease to be an active judge, which means that he will not be able to act as the first President of the Supreme Court. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the law that deprives this position. If the president were 40 today And give him, O God, and a hundred. He could have done it for six more years if he had been called now... It's not the bill that's taking a stand. It's the passing of time... And the passing of time is also a legal category, because terms are legal categories too. The passage of time takes away... Well, he may not, but he moves the first President of the Supreme Court to rest, which means that he cannot act as the first President of the Supreme Court. And that's the cause-effect sequence. I don't know what else you can't understand. Well, one might ask, is this really the age of 65... You can say that he may not be too correct, that maybe it's not enough, or maybe too much. Of course you can. The Constitutional Tribunal has commented on this. I'm eating one of the opinions drawn up by the Attorney General. I read here that determining the retirement age of the judges at the level of 65 years with the possibility of extending the extension was there because this opinion concerned another act. Until the 70th year of age, it is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which leaves a great deal of freedom for the legislator in this regard. The Constitutional Tribunal in its judgment of 24 June 1998, K 3/98, confirmed the constitutionality of the provisions which established the retirement age of judges of the general courts and of the Supreme Court at the level of 65 years with the possibility of extending until the 70th year of age. That's enough, Europe... In Germany, Austria and Switzerland, judges are also retiring, let's call it, at an established age. It's 65 years old, 67 years old, 68 years old. This is Europe, and we are striving for it. So what's it like? May I? Of course you can. Is there such a law in the Constitution? Of course it is. Well, what can we do about it if the current first president of the Supreme Court is approaching this age or has he reached it already? It's not like we're gonna write the law under the first president of the court to keep him running. Unless that's what you want, the other side... Ladies and gentlemen, a word at the end. Are there similar cases? Of course they are. Here someone asked about the issue of the Seym, the Senate, about what would be, how the mean one used to be. The PiS will determine that you will be able to e.g. shorten the term of office of a Member or a Senator. That's not an option. I repeat, that's not an option. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[You can shorten your term of office...]] Okay, but the Senate as a House, not a single senator or a Member. You can't just say it like that, throw it away. For incorrigibility. These are two different issues. But, of course, in the bill... [[Mr. Senator...]] [[Yes, you can, Mr. Senator.]] [[Yes, you can.]] Yeah, I want to quote that. Of course, in the act on the execution of the mandate of a Member and a Senator or in the electoral order... I think, however, in the electoral order, I apologize, but the electoral code currently lists a few examples when early termination of the term of office is possible. or the resignation of a Member or a Senator. [[That's what Minister Ziobro says.]] [[Mr. Senator...]] And one last point: President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. This law regulates probably 4 or 5 cases in which the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber may be revoked before the end of the six-year term. Here's a one-man organ and a full analogy. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will not speak on the detailed provisions of the Supreme Court Act. I don't feel competent to speak on these specific issues, I'm not a lawyer. They did it, and they're doing so much better for my friends and my colleagues, who are lawyers, specialists in this field. But I listened attentively to the whole discussion about yesterday, and earlier, the Act on the National Courts Council, and today the Act on the Supreme Court. I listened to the words of the President's representative, the President of the Supreme Court, the Ombudsman. I read the opinion of the Legislative Bureau and the opinions of external experts. However, most of these opinions, which we have been able to read, speak about the fact that this law raises at least constitutional doubts. Even Senator Bobko said that there were doubts. We think some of the records are breaking the constitution. So there are at least those doubts. I am therefore surprised that the President of the Republic, who presented these two projects to us, the Sejm and the Senate, accepts such provisions that raise constitutional doubts or break the constitution. The President of the Republic is the guardian of the Constitution, so at every stage of his work on the Law he should also publicly express all these doubts, contribute to the fact that the Act is as fully recorded and passed as possible. And he doesn't have those doubts. Of course, many of our citizens think that this dispute does not concern them at all. They think it's a dispute between some elites, maybe lawyers, maybe even if you can pick up some real or imaginary privileges of one or another group, it'll be good, it'll be better. But unfortunately, this practice going from the top is a demolishing practice of the state. Last year we worked on the Constitutional Court Act. You remember all these arguments and discussions. Today, the Constitutional Tribunal does not work at all, considers far less laws than the earlier Constitutional Tribunal did. And these decisions are such that fewer and fewer people trust what the Constitutional Tribunal does. Do we want to bring about a situation... Do you, as the ruling party, wish to bring about the situation that the Supreme Court and the National Council of Courts will become unreliable? This leads to such a situation that people, especially young people Because we all say that we think and talk about the future and about young people Who are lawyers who are judges, lawyers, legal counsels and who work in regional courts... Talk to them about the atmosphere that surrounds them. Yes? They begin to doubt whether where they work as lawyers, as lawyers, as lawyers, as judges Young people who are 30 years old, even less... They, who are to build this democratic, just Poland, are beginning to have doubts as to whether what is happening today serves precisely such a vision of a democratic state. So this dismantle of the state, which you see in different areas of life and which you serve us, is really terrifying. When we debated judicial laws in July on judicial reform, this dispute was somehow resolved by the President's veto on two laws. But why did this veto come about? For two reasons, I was talking about it from the Senate stand at the time. First of all, because this protest of citizens started to spread into smaller towns in Poland, it reached Lębork, Miastka, Słupska, Bytowa and I only exchange places in our voivodship. It spilled over the village throughout Poland and it was obvious that it was not just a problem of elites, you can say, gathered here in Warsaw, but that people are beginning to feel this problem at the bottom. And a second argument for the president. In my opinion, this was what I was talking about at the time. There were words spoken by the Secretary of State of the United States. And, ladies and gentlemen, is it supposed to be that we in Poland cannot decide for ourselves what to look like our right? Do we need the Secretary of State of the United States to speak again and say that this law is going in the wrong direction? He said it already, now it's quite soft, because he probably doesn't want to go deep into it. But it simply cannot be that we in Poland still have to look at the fact that someone we respect will tell us: do not do so. Well, we can't keep acting like kids, like unruly kids, so someone's gonna give us a hand and then we're gonna start to function normally. You can't build a state like that. And even here it sounds sometimes, on both sides of the room. We ask: how are these matters solved in this country or in another country? Of course, these are important experiences, but they do not have to be for us, so to speak, an unambiguous indicator, because every country, every nation, different nations have their experiences and build a system that is somehow rooted in their traditions. That's true with Poland. Poland, if we want to be proud of it and we are proud of it, is a strong country It has the right to build this tradition. And today we are tearing down this tradition in various areas of importance and greatness. We have our huge legislative and legal achievements, but we're trying to tear it down. Why? Why? I don't know. I don't understand. It simply harms our country and our citizens. This dismantle of the state is a thought that many government officials also have today. Yesterday, Senator Czerwiński, whom I will also refer to here, spoke on the occasion of the examination of the Act on the National Judicial Council on a case that does not concern at all these problems and the Supreme Court, and the National Judicial Council on the Law of 2005 on national and ethnic minorities and on the regional language. And what did he say then, which seemed very dangerous to me? Well he said this: in 2005, as we passed this law, we thought that we would give some part of our citizens, some part of the citizens of Polish law, provided that in another country these rights would also be granted. Well, it's just a road that leads to destruction. It seems to me that we, our citizens in Poland, should give all rights not because someone takes those rights away from our country, only because we as Poland respect certain principles of a democratic state and respect citizens. I'm talking about this bill about national and ethnic minorities, not by accident. She, as I say, has nothing to do with the Supreme Court Act, but unfortunately, such a practice is spilling out to simply discredit, destroy and so on. It starts with the courts and ends with the lives of ordinary citizens. In our Pomorskie voivodship recently voivodship And none of his superiors disciplined him for that, and he said that we should raise them up, as he said, patriotic... well... oh, I wrote it down somewhere, but... well, he was talking about a threat to separatism. And of course he said it in the context of the situation in Pomeranian Voivodeship. Of course, many of the inhabitants of Pomorskie Voivodship said: "No, what do you mean? Where and in what direction is this going? Another point: Minister Zalewska says that there is a need to reduce the resources allocated to learning the Kashubian language and other minority languages, in a situation where education is generally given more. So there's this feeling that these things that start at the top, from the courts, end with the lives of even those citizens who are the lowest, even the situation of children. So I think that we as senators, seeing what is going on, such a dismantle of a democratic state, should sound in the first place in this matter. All senators, and the Law and Justice, and the Civic Platform. Because future generations won't forgive us. And the fact that we believe, as Marshal Sewerinski says, that judges are free, wise, responsible... It's all true, it is, it's just a little too little. Because if the various institutions of the state are trying to dismantle this state, it's fear what's going to happen next. That's why I'm definitely going against this bill unless there's an amendment. I hope so, even I know my colleagues are working on it. It will be made so transparent as to ensure that civil liberties are not violated. Then I will vote for her. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u96	Thank you very much. Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests! It just so happens that the second day in a row I am speaking after Senator Czerwinski and I must refer to at least one sentence. You said to the senator: we're not writing a bill specifically under the chairman so he can stay. It's not half-truth. or even completely untruthful, how much double untruth. Well, this bill, Mr. Senator, is written just so that the president doesn't stay. The judge's state, the courts were here, so to speak, judged against honor and faith, and the only way that was proposed was to turn these courts over and take them into guardians. Various surveys were therefore widely quoted. Hey, fellas, if we were just following polls, what kind of politicians have polls? A bunch of jokes, who's it about? It's about politics. So maybe we should start with each other. I would like to start with the success of the Government of Law and Justice, such as the 500+ programme and the Apartment +. And you can be congratulated on these successes. But the fact that you can give away the fruits of the effort of the whole nation is a simple fact that when you came to power, there must have been something in this state purse. According to King Solomon's old principle, no one will pour out of an empty one. And this was mentioned yesterday in the exposé by Prime Minister Morawiecki: Poland is not and was not in ruins. And he emphasized that we've been at the highest point in 27 years. And you didn't get there in two years, it's just the result of the collective effort of the whole nation, it was above all 20 years of hard work, entrepreneurship of millions of Poles who decided to take advantage of the opportunity given to them by history. And it is undoubtedly the happiness of many years of peace, open borders, enabling cooperation with Europe. And the investment resulting from our presence in the European Union is undoubtedly a huge financial boost. And again, your Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, spoke about it yesterday. When I heard so much criticism about cooperation with Europe... I'd think about it, because these are connected vessels. It's not just money, it's also some structures and common values. And part of that value is our justice system. Behind our eastern border Ukraine after 20 years of freedom is in an incomparably worse economic situation, almost 1 million of its citizens are looking for jobs in Poland each year, and real investors avoid Ukraine with a wide arch. If you think about it, ask what is the main reason for these differences, you have to give one answer: it is a wonderful system, a legal corset, which has ensured balance for more than 20 years, on the one hand it has ensured the efficiency of the state, allowing for an effective fight against corruption, tax enforcement, law enforcement, and on the other hand it has given individuals, citizens, economic operators such tools that guarantee an effective fight against self-will and abuse of power. Every investor in Poland knows that he will be treated equally because he has access to the justice system, which has been working for twenty years. He had his flaws and it is true, but as a whole he functioned. And once again, I will refer to the words of Prime Minister Morawiecki: we cannot choose between extremes, between you and you, a minimum of too strong, bureaucratic. It was a balance of mutual control that I... because there are no legal arguments in this Chamber, and it's all the same by whom they are spoken, you will always find your other lawyers who will say the opposite. I'd compare it to the driver's situation on the road. On the one hand, there are police whose presence and actions ensure that most road users comply with the rules and that they are caught and punished and on the other hand these drivers are sure that if there is a change of direction on this road, they will be warned in such a way that they will be able to react that this will not be the case. And I think that's what you've been doing for a year. From day to day the right-hand traffic changes to left-hand traffic. This is Sweden's experience, it was probably in the 1950s, but it was prepared for three years, it was not done overnight. We talked about the international situation, how it will affect legal trade with foreign countries. If a country, any country in Europe, would lead to such absurdity, in order to ensure maximum safety, that any citizen or every second as a police officer could control a passing car... I'm sure if I were. Austria introduced it, it would be the safest country, but I can assure you that no one would drive through this country. No one would drive if every step of the way there was a ban, an opportunity for such a police to intervene under any pretenses. I have the impression that it's a calling all the time... There's been multiple references to the Sovereign here. I'd like to ask... There was a discussion on this subject, and I agree that you and the President are fulfilling a certain will of the sovereign, that is, your electorate. But in any direction to count, that's either 18%. the whole society, or 36 or 37% Those who voted. Did you ask, by making such profound transformations as this sovereign, this image of a sovereign who does not divide, but combines, and thinks together? No. I also feel that for the first time, the state does not see the serious dangers that a man has said here, with whom I have very rarely agreed so far. Well, if he says things that make sense, then... I'm not a man who won't agree with him just because he's on the political side. I'm talking about Deputy Minister Warchole. Thanks to your marshal's procedures, we couldn't ask him today, and I mainly wanted to ask him questions, because we have here a very serious letter in which he lists how the emergency complaint system, the existing one, is going to cling to. And the one that's about to come... I mean, in the first place, I was talking about the cassation, and now I'm talking about this emergency complaint. It'll completely block the whole system. Why? We talked about this today. The fact is that this complaint will not be, because it cannot be, identical to the cassation, which is a complaint of the law, and in most cases it must be brought in due time, only it will be an emergency complaint concerning the fact. Now, ladies and gentlemen, tell me how many examples of judgments around you concerning your electorate... How many times have these people come to you? And they said, "I have a sentence in my order." And it could be a $500 sentence, $700, but I didn't know... So? 20 years from now, it's gonna be... Minister Warchoł tried to figure it out for me today. He said things like this... They say there's about 60 million of them. He didn't say they'd all come back all of a sudden, but he said, even if it's one radius, we're gonna get these cases 60 grand. He talked about it at the committee meeting. And he spoke directly to the president's representatives: give me the money. And I said, where's the money? It's not like there's any money in here for this emergency complaint. If you believe that what we say and our interpretation of the Constitution are wrong, and only you are right in interpreting the Constitution, at least to the extent that your own minister is doing the math to you, and all of a sudden he says exactly what you said to the ombudsman who works with a full couple, and that's... We also heard here from the Senators of Law and Justice, as they acknowledged to him that he was working in an increased way. So if two officials whose institutions do nothing else, just deal with these complaints... And you, of course, know better? [[Of course.]] I don't get it. Today, the Marshal's decision was not allowed to do this question to the Minister of Justice of the Government of Law and Justice. Well, that's actually a psychic. [[Scandal.]] That's what I'm saying... Because, of course, in no way... But there are senators in the courtroom who disagreed on whether or not to continue the conversation, also from the Law and Justice, I must say. But mostly you said it was over, no more questions. How did this happen? Are you giving up on this? Each of you has received a letter from the Attorney General. Well, let's at least think about it. And finally, I would just like to read it for the second time in this Hemar term. 'Cause I'm really okay with that. In the atmosphere of peace... I am saying this à about the fact that I think that in Poland it really started to be good in the sense that this country has come to a straight line. In the atmosphere of peace, joy and abundance the nations flourish, in poverty they bow down, grow free, in captivity they dwarf. Ha, why is it true about all nations except ours. Slave, misery, misery seems to bite us, and look, we grow up like the Easter woman. And give us peace, prosperity, give us freedom and money in all our lure, right away it's done in a woman. Somewhere else a man falls when his hope blows, and with us success is what he derails. On the ceiling of every Polish business... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...hangs the sword of Damocles, the prospect of success. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u98	You've been talking for 15 minutes because your friend's been distracted, so we're gonna charge you with a possible two-bit vote. [[No, you can't.]] [[No, no, you can't do that.]] [[This is another interpretation, Mr. Marshal...]] Senator Spider. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, if I said 20 minutes, would you have taken me away from my next term of office?]] [[At least.]] Senator Spider. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Ministers! Mr. President! I'm speaking, but I'm not a lawyer, so I'm absolutely not going into this legal debate. I'm gonna try to change my perspective on everything that's here, on this one judicial authority. When the President began with the Romans, with Rome, I will also begin with such a maxim from ancient Rome: nihil iniquis venali iustitia nothing is more wicked than the selling justice system. This is... [[Oh, Jesus!]] [[We're waiting on charges.]] I'm not accusing you or... [[What if it isn't?]] [[Calm down, please.]] I'm just quoting this maxim. [[Is that a maxim or is it stealing?]] And I'm sure the justice system is, like, the core of the whole state, everything that makes it. It states whether it will be strong, strong, as this country will be. What the justice system will be like, that's what the state will be like. And that's what this is all about. Because if the justice system is like this, then you certainly will not be strong, strong, and just. [[If it is.]] But I would ask you very much, Mr. Rulewski... I didn't bother you, and I won't bother you when you speak. Many voices, very critical voices, as a senator I heard. A lot of people come to me, and it's not such a coincidence that someone lost in court and resents it. Some are certainly very drastic examples of screaming injustice. He comes to me, for example. The witness who seized the thief and said in court: "You judge not who I took him by the hand, but someone else. Did the Polish courts convict one Stalinist criminal for 27 years? I leave that question unanswered. Did they convict one Stalinist criminal for 27 years? All you can say is some officials, some officers. But have the criminal ever convicted one? Is what is happening in Warsaw with these tenement houses, with all this, proof of efficiency, the great rule of law of the courts? Another Roman, Publilius Sirus, said: "If the criminal has been acquitted, the curse falls upon the judges. That's what this prominent Roman did. What if the criminal is rewarded by the judges if he is charged with the execution of a murderer's prison sentence with enormous damages from the Polish state? And if that's the case, how are these courts supposed to be seen as something really super-working? The sovereignty of the Republic of Poland belongs to the nation, and the nation exercises power by its representatives or directly. We have these 3 independent authorities: the judiciary, the legislative authority and the executive authority. Well, it's just that in order for me to be a senator, in this term, I had to win 141,000 votes, in the previous one, too. Running for the governor's office, running for the governor's office... I won the uncle three times, I won the old man four times. Each time I was chosen, and before the election, you had to put your face on the poster, get evaluated, criticize. And where, how and by whom is the judge chosen? For what, where and when is he responsible? Ladies and gentlemen, Poland as the first country in Europe had an institution such as the Crown Court in which citizens could refer to judgments. In 1578. Stefan Batory resigned from the powers of the Supreme Judge in favour of the court of the Crown, which was set up at the same time. It was judged by representatives of nobles and clergy. The secular deputies were 27 and they were elected annually on deputies' symposiums, one or two of each voivodeship depending on its size. On the other hand, six priests' deputies chose the chapters. They were involved in the settlement of cases, and when one of the parties was a clergyman, they were halfway across the board. At the head of the tribunal was the elected marshal. So it was possible to choose judicial authority more than 400 years ago. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to another classic that I'm sure he knew how the judicial authority could work. This is Thomas Jefferson, founder of the United States, co-author of the constitution of this country. And so he wrote in 1820: "You seem to regard judges as final arbitrators of all constitutional issues; indeed, it is a very dangerous doctrine, and one that would put us under the despotism of oligarchy. Our judges are as honest as other people, not more. They have, like others, the same propensity for parties, powers and privileges of their corporations. Their maxima is good judgment is the extension of jurisdiction, i.e. the scope of the jurisdiction of the court. Their power is all the more dangerous because they are elected for life and are not subject, as other officers are, to electoral control. I think that also tells us a lot. When it comes to independence, independence... My opinion is that, above all, no one can depreciate the independence of the judge more than the judge himself. Because no politician can get inside the judge's head. An honest, conscientious, righteous judge has no problem with political pressure. Of course, there should be other external reservations for this independence to be, but this independence is, I think, fundamental and fundamental. There's a second unappreciated threat to the independence of judges. It's inside, resulting from the enormous decision-making of the jury. The judges are also dependent on the assessments made by the judges, on the promotional route decided by the other judges. So this could also be part of a great pressure or, let's say, a control. Finally, with regard to the three divisions of power, the fact that it's beautifully arranged today... There is a fantastic article by prof. Andrzej Nowak. In addition, I would like to say two words from this speaker, perhaps, in order to pay the courtesy of Prof. Nowak, for how he describes the history of Poland, how he searches for this history, tells how he wants this Polishness to grow in us. And it also applies to those classics... I don't know if I'll have enough time to afford to read it, but it's also very eloquent. However, it is worth taking a closer look at how Montesquius also provides warnings about possible despotism and abuse of the judicial authority itself. The Court's authority It says, "Oh, yeah, It should be exercised by persons appointed of the people, at certain times of the year, in a manner prescribed by law, in order to create a tribunal that lasts only for as long as it is necessary. In this way this so dangerous judicial authority, without being attached either to a certain state or to a certain profession, becomes, you can say, invisible and none. There are no judges in front of their eyes: fear awakens office, not officials. [...] It is even necessary for the judges to be of the same state as the accused, or equal, so that he cannot believe that he fell into the hands of people willing to rape him. It's Montescius, I think it's the classic from which to start talking about the three divisions of power. [[Mr. Senator, 10 minutes...]] Thank you very much. I'll use another five minutes later.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u100	Thank you very much. Senator Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u101	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! The presidents! That is true, this Supreme Court Act is a fundamental project of changes in Polish judiciary, changes proposed by the President, which are the fulfilment of his electoral obligations, the obligations of Law and Justice. But above all, these are changes expected by millions of Poles. The polls show that more than 80% of our society wants judicial reform. This shows that justice is seen as a place where, in many cases, instead of justice, people are harmed. It has already been stressed many times here that the justice system belongs to the third power, plays a very important role in the functioning of the state and in the lives of citizens. It is no coincidence that one of the first articles referring to justice is Art. 2nd Constitution, which states that the Republic of Poland is a democratic legal state that implements the principles of social justice. There is no social justice without a well-functioning justice system. Therefore, the justice system must have constitutional guarantees of independence and independence both for courts and for judges, but citizens should also have an impact on the functioning of the third power. And it is precisely such mechanisms that enable the judiciary to function more efficiently that this law is about. In order to reassure my listeners, I know that in the High House maybe no one even listens to me. I'll remind you what it introduces, what it changes. Let me put it briefly so that the law introduces three new institutions: an emergency complaint, the involvement of the jury in the work of the Supreme Court... And he's ordering disciplinary justice. Thus, thanks to the institutions of the emergency complaint, citizens have a tool for the investigation of justice, which is a new, exceptional measure for the control of final judgments. The aim is to enable decisions that have infringed constitutional freedoms and human and citizen rights to be removed from the legal system, which have grossly affected them. I stress, grossly, not that they all immediately violated the law by its misinterpretation or misuse, and also when there is a clear contradiction of the essential findings of the court with the content of the evidence collected. I'll give you an example of this last case. Namely, Mr. Łukasz G. of Pomerania came to my senator's office, who was the victim of a scandalous sentence he had taken before the Elbląg District Court. In short, despite many procedural and substantive allegations in court proceedings, no institution has bowed to this judgment in order to amend it and to make amends to the damage resulting from it. It's just that the trial has lasted so long, it's been extended so that it's statute of limitations. And that's what a few judges were working on, as well as other people, other lawyers. The introduction of jurors to the Supreme Court is an important social solution in this law. In several statements, the Senators of the Civic Platform insulted these future jurors. They are to rule on matters relating to the handling of emergency complaints and disciplinary matters in the Supreme Court. Then why the jury? Well, be sure to take into account a certain social sense of justice when giving a ruling in addition to the letter of the law. In one opinion, the introduction of mixed compositions of disciplinary tribunals, judges-jurisdictions, aims to ensure public participation in disciplinary proceedings of judges. It is also about citizens being active participants in proceedings in the Supreme Court. It's gonna be some kind of social control. This is not a sword against judges, it is a social control which will increase the transparency of disciplinary proceedings, but will also increase citizens' confidence in the Supreme Court, to the Supreme Court judges, of course, while maintaining the professional character of the judges. We accepted the opposition's amendments so that the jury could not be part of the political parties. In the new law, we really do not introduce anything that has not been expected for years, anything that would be contrary to the constitution. I don't explore America, for example. on a low assessment of the National Judicial Council, on a request for the election of the majority of the members of the National Courts of Justice by the Sejm, for the granting of greater powers to the Presidents of the courts and for their independence from their fellow judges, as well as for the introduction of new rules of disciplinary justice, including the abolition of its corporate character, and for the granting of numerous powers in this respect to the President of the Republic of Poland. I do not question the integrity, integrity of the vast majority of judges in both professional and personal life. However, there have been so many cases recently reported. I'll add, classified for years. Indecent behaviour of judges, as well as representatives of other legal professions, is strongly needed by the Disciplinary Chamber, independent of other chambers and bodies of the Supreme Court, which would discipline judges who committed gross infringements of the law in order to restore dignity and fairness in the judiciary. Solutions so far have failed That's the truth. I will not give further examples of the fact that many unworthy judges have not been held liable, whether criminal or disciplinary, in which their colleagues, fellow judges, with the assistance of judicial doctors, have helped them, for example. to the limitation of the criminality of the act. After all, your first President of the Supreme Court was initially in favour of making changes to the Supreme Court. In a bill addressed to the President and the Marshals of the Sejm and the Senate, the draft law proposed the introduction of a Disciplinary Chamber in the Supreme Court, the specialty of which would be to deal with disciplinary matters of judges and representatives of other legal professions. It was also in this proposal to introduce jurors to the Supreme Court who would rule on disciplinary matters. I am convinced that the judge's environment is in favour of these changes. So why does the Law on the Supreme Court meet with such a fierce attack of opposition politicians, and among the accusations appears this, most unauthorized, as if the Law and Justice, breaking the Constitution, aimed at politicalising the courts, that it is an attempt on the independence of Polish courts or on judicial independence? The answer is simple and short: it was never after 1989 that politicians did not influence the division of power. These are the principles of democracy, and so far a better system has not been invented. So that current politicians belonging to the governing party have the right to introduce laws and to change the justice system for the better. Democracy is a system of governance and a form of governance in which the will of the majority of citizens is the source of power. It was the will of the majority of citizens that this Parliament and this parliamentary majority were elected. Those who shout so loudly about politicisation and lack of democracy cannot respect us or themselves. Those who regard themselves as democrats but do not recognize the will of the voters and reject the government that was formed as a result of the elections are not democrats, but political hooligans. You can criticize the government, disagree with it, consider the ruling party as enemies, but if you reject the parliament and the government of the law, you don't respect either this government or this parliament, the people elected in free elections, you don't respect the people and you don't respect yourself. In true democracy, one has to accept that winners change something that others don't like. Wait until the next elections so that I can change the way I quote the words of the former President of the Constitutional Tribunal, so that nothing changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u102	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine. Second time, so five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u103	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! I share the opinion of Judge Zabłocki and the Minister, Mr Bodnar's spokesman, that this is an important moment, the second law of this package, which includes 3 laws: the law on common courts... Or maybe four laws, because it's about the Constitutional Court. I would like to tell all those who have the delusions that if they want to see who was right in the debate about the Constitutional Court, who was right in the discussion about the common courts, then let them look at the use made of those laws, what benefit and who has. Well, there are no benefits for citizens. You can see the benefits of power because that was the goal. We pointed him out, but they told us: you exaggerate, you anticipate some evil that will not be, because no one has that intention. And yet it did, and yet it did. And that is why credibility is a word that I would like to take you a few more minutes. These laws are from the presentation of the president's vets. Many of them had great hopes. Now we find that these laws made by the President, after amendments, do not differ in the fundamental decisions almost nothing from what the President vetoed. Of course, there are cosmetic changes. There's a change in who the politicians will have more influence. But, for God's sake, the president didn't say he wanted to use these laws to play the internal game in the power camp, but he wanted to fix what he thought he was saying. It is incompatible with the Constitution. And then we get laws clearly still in the same places that are against the constitution. Mr. President, the Ministers, it was a hoax, it was made for a completely different use than the one we were talking about. People are going out again today because they feel cheated. And they're right. The second point is the credibility of the opinions that have been submitted here. Senator Borowski always said great that if one tells you you're drunk, two, three, don't argue, just go to bed. And here we have a situation that half the world is telling us that we're going in the wrong direction, that it's bad for democracy, that it's bad for the judiciary, and that it's bad for the citizens. What hurts me most is that we ignore the voices coming from Europe, because And I'm not gonna stop saying that, and Europe has no interest in that. If he's complaining, he's begging for us as citizens of the European Union. That's what this opposition is all about. In order for all citizens of the European Union to be guaranteed full rights in an independent judicial system exercised by independent courts and independent judges. That's it. This is not a struggle with the Union, but a fight for the rights of Polish citizens in the European Union. That's it. Let me remind you once again that the great harm to the Polish state is that the authority of the courts, the authority of the judges, has been weakened by these laws and this discussion, through a billboard campaign, various kinds of slanders. It's gonna take a lot of revenge on us. It has been said here, as you can see in individual courts, how aggression grows towards them, how distrust grows. And if anyone thinks that politicising courts, staff exchanges will change anything... It'll be a nail in the coffin. The credibility of the courts will be even less. Is that what this was about? Maybe. I want to tell you that I am concerned that the institutions of the Polish state, the law is apparently used... [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. ...all and still as an instrument in the political struggle. In all this, the citizen counts little, less and even not at all. The truth is the same. [[Thank you.]] That's why I don't think these laws can be fixed. If it is necessary to repair, because it is necessary, the justice system, by means of completely different proposals, which would refer to a reliable diagnosis supported by numbers, rather than to populist slogans that hit the credibility of the justice system.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u104	Thank you very much. Senator Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u105	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Invited guests! I would like to focus on what was very little said, and what Senator Augustine said in his last speech, well, to some extent, you also touched this subject. Namely, I would like to ask you a question. And ask us to answer them. We have built or improved the authority of the courts, whether this discussion, which has been taking place since May and now several dozen hours in the Senate, or this discussion which is being held in Parliament, in the political class, in the media, in connection with this unfortunate billboard campaign. Because as for the fact that courts should have authority, we all agree. Authority built by their employees, by the right legislation, but also by the whole social environment. This is our common interest, this is the interests of the citizens and the interests of our state, so that the authority of the justice system is as high as possible, so that confidence in the courts is as high as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all talking about courts and we are thinking: judges. But there are officials working in the courts, 5,000 probation officers working, auxiliary workers working in the courts. They're all court workers. They are often very easily accused as court workers, here I saw a slogan, which also indicated that it can be interpreted very differently. I received a text not from the judge, but from someone else, who do you think we are? We try to work as hard as possible, as best we can. So, in this whole debate that's been going on for months and apart from the fact that it's taking place in Parliament, is it happening in the media, very different media, different orientations, we built this authority? And yet this is a very basic issue. When we considered taking children to nursing homes because of poverty, it's the most important thing. It was a discussion, not a revision of the rules. Because this discussion was building a social conviction and an institution that you cannot take a child in a situation where it is poor, but you need to help. Therefore, it is important not only what regulations will be, but also what atmosphere will be in. they are accepting, what arguments are used and how all of this works together. Well, I'm very worried because not only do I get different signals, but I have, as a probation officer, contacts with the parole board, and I find out that when they go into the environment, when they go to criminals, people who are convicted, or when they go to families, they are much harder than they used to be, because this opinion, which is built in different places, very unfavorable, makes these people, who should be rehabilitated, restored to society, say, "Where did you come from?" The State represents an institution to which we do not trust. Because we repeat these stereotypes, these social research results in different places. So there is the opinion that this work of various workers, including those who go into the field and try to rehabilitate criminals or work on parents who take improper care of children, is difficult. Will that change when the discussion is over when these regulations go to the President and you sign them? This is not so simple and cannot be seen so optimisticly, because the formation of the public opinion will take a long time. And it is up to all of us to rebuild this positive opinion as much as possible, seeing, of course, the shortcomings of the justice system. I do not want to say under any circumstances that problems, disadvantages should not be recognised and that there is no need to respond to this either through legal changes. We have a duty to make such legal changes. But we also have a duty to make it work in an atmosphere of seriousness, to make it work in an atmosphere of using serious arguments, not to repeat a million times the unfortunate wording of one judge about caste. Because it wasn't a resolution, I don't know how much that lady slipped out, how happy she was about being a member, but it's not serious that in the public debate these words have made such a dizzy career. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return to what I said at the beginning, and of which there is no doubt in this House, namely that the justice system is extremely important. Therefore, I appeal to all political forces, I appeal to the media, I appeal to the leaders of the public to talk about such important matters in an atmosphere that builds, which will allow the authority of this institution to be as necessary, i.e. the highest, so that we do not use generalization, either in this or in other matters. The tragedy of the various discussions is that we treat exceptional cases as a rule that the case of one or the other judge These things happen, and reactions should be immediate, and they're generalized, and they're not about one thing, but about many others. I have to say that I know a lot of judges, I know the curators, I know the administrative staff involved, who have been doing their job really well for years. They deserve recognition, and we need to speak very clearly about it, it is something they deserve, but it is also something that encourages them to continue to engage in this work. Thank you for your attention. I'm just gonna add that I'm gonna want to use my five minutes later because I didn't pass the time, I hope. [[Applause]] [[No.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u106	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Staron.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, everything has been said from this speaker. I, too, have many dilemmas about the provisions of this bill, but I will not talk about them. I also know fantastic judges who are not only righteous, professional, but above all are people. Because the judge is a human being, too. On the other side, apart from the fact that he's being charged, apart from the fact that there are two sides to criminal or civil proceedings, there are also people. And I know a lot of judges like that. But most importantly, what we're talking about today... I won't agree with some of the speeches here because we're talking about the justice system. I will only talk about two points which are contained in this law, because I listened to the Ombudsman's statement, listened to the judge's statement, and I will allow myself to disagree with some of the statements. I'll talk about the new emergency complaint institution. The judge, the president of the court, pointed out that it was not necessary to go so far that it was enough to determine in some other form a cassation complaint. Perhaps there should be other reasons, perhaps... for her to look different. You may have, ladies and gentlemen, but these are years and no one has done this for years. I wrote my first interpellations about the revision or emergency complaint at that time in 2014. I've talked about this many times. Another one was in 2015. And I'll tell you why. Because today these tools, these legal institutions that we have, they're not really gonna let people get justice in different situations. And that's not populism, Mr. Senator, because I heard words like that from that speaker. I will tell you: at present, the cassation complaint is a legal action only. This complaint concerns the correction of errors in case law, the consistency of case law or the correction of errors made by common courts. That's it, period, nothing more. We're not going back to the evidence, we're not going back to the facts. What other institutions do we have? After all, we can file a motion to reopen the proceedings. But this is an institution completely dead. It's not just that she doesn't work. As I'm saying, I think a dozen cases from a 10-year perspective... what else can we do? There is an action for reopening proceedings, an action for declaration of unlawfulness, an action against enforcement But we've got it all on the back, haven't we? We can't do anything. We can sue again, but there's the seriousness of the thing being judged. And there's nothing we can do. I'll give you an example that I've already given. I have these examples, unfortunately, much more. An older marriage is losing its entire life's work. First they were robbed by a commune, took away their farm because they bought another one. So she took one because she did. So that they had their farm, 17 ha, house, buildings... They were sick people, one had cancer, so they wanted to make sure they had a future. What's going on? They're going to court. Because before that, they gave the whole farm to their neighbors, but for life, they could live there for the rest of their days. Nothing would have happened. But they went to court because they wanted to increase their life-long pension because the mentioned neighbors, who were first very noble and good, at the time of the transfer, were no longer like that. And then the court just got it wrong, in the operative part, he wrote one word too much and took their life in the apartment. The operative part is different, and the justification is different. Of course, the court noticed its mistake and wanted to correct this obvious error, but the second instance court said: no, the justification is important, we will not interfere with the operative part. And this is one example. Of course, I can tell you a lot more about these examples here. I'm the only one asking myself, is making people homeless, taking all their assets away from them because of the judge's mistake, who confessed to her... They have nowhere else to go because there's no such institution. And there are more examples of this, of course. Doesn't that require leaning on it? Doesn't that require finding such a legal institution... What are we talking about? About the justice system. We're not talking about the dimension of judgment, we're not talking about the dimension of judgments, we're talking about the justice system. That's why there have to be tools for justice. And when somebody says there's gotta be a sure spin... Of course, it must be, only if it is not grossly unfair. After all, even today, even in the event of a cassation complaint... These are valid, enforceable decisions. Exactly the same situation. So we're talking about an institution that will really restore elementary justice. And we're not talking, Mr. Senators, Mr. Senator, about a situation where someone is unhappy with the ruling. Because that's not the point. We're talking about these glaring situations, in which, at first glance, you can see that something is wrong, that it shouldn't be like this. And now I'm going to say... ♪ 'Cause I heard that now ♪ This should not be the cause at all, but it should also refer to this. There will be an avalanche of such cases. Just take into account that all these people have already been sent to the spokesperson, wrote to the prosecutor, the Minister of Justice. They've all been looking for justice over the years. There was just no institution. The Ombudsman will certainly check his resources and there will be the same people. It's not like they're gonna wake up and say, "Yes, we're gonna perform today." I'll remind you one more thing, by the way. In the last term, when I was in the Seym, we changed the bill on bailiffs. And there we introduced, after the ruling of the Court, the sizing, means that the citizen can go to court and say: as much as the bailiff wants, it is too much, please court, it should cost less, not 10 thousand PLN for the fact that the bailiff did some one action, but less. And then I heard the same voices. I remember the Minister of Justice who came and said: absolutely, there will be millions of applications in court, millions, we will be flooded, the end. After a year, as this solution came into force and became a law, he came and said: I'm sorry, I was wrong, I'm not. But we say all the time... And that's what's important, that's what needs to be emphasized. Because there can't be protection. That's what we're talking about. For judgments which are contrary to basic standards, to elementary justice. There can't be that kind of protection. This is, in my view, a violation of the principle of trust in the rule of law. In this matter, maybe I'll talk about another solution. It's about the Disciplinar Chamber. I'll be very brief. Well, here and here and there, and the other senator said that they only see these examples on billboards and that they don't do that at all. I'll tell you, I've been working with people for years, for a dozen years, working with them before I came to Parliament, and I know these things, so to speak, from below. It's not just... There are a lot of examples, but first, let me tell you what's going on. This isn't about judges, it's about judges, because we're also talking about judges. About the prosecutors. So I'm going to give you an example here, because the examples kind of represent this situation. There was an incident that the trader was robbed by a bailiff in a rogue way. You can say that calmly because this bailiff is the first in Poland to serve prison sentences. He's actually been in prison for four years. He's gonna sit, he's gonna sit, he's gonna sit, he's gonna sit, he's gonna sit, What was the extent of the abuse that had to be the scale of the irregularity when this was the case? But imagine that this hurt entrepreneur, robbed of everything he had, in an absolutely illegal manner, went to the D.A.'s office first and asked for the help of the D.A., giving him all these documents... He took pictures of all this. There was a violation, so he went to the prosecutor's office, and the prosecutor refused to open a case first. Well, the D.A.'s supervisor, then on the basis of those laws, even in writing... And there was also a policeman who was conducting these operations. They were pointing out to the D.A. that there was evidence here, and that's screaming. And what happened? Well, the procedure has indeed been taken, but even though this superior has indicated what action needs to be taken, no action has been taken and the procedure has been terminated in the final proceedings. What were the consequences of this situation? We were trying to get this public officer to... Like I said, that bailiff's in jail. Then, by decision of the court, all these cases were completed positively in the criminal aspect, but this is a poor man today, this man has lost everything. What's going on with the D.A.? We tried to hold him liable for disciplinary action. The first disciplinary court, the court of first instance, did not see such a need and said that actually nothing happened. In the second instance it was said: no, but this case needs to be re-examined. The case went to first instance and again the same thing: no, it's okay. Second instance: well, maybe you have to lean on it. Then again, the first... And what's the finale? Of course, no one was responsible. I'm going to talk about two more examples, so you know what a person can meet with. I was talking about the D.A., but there's a judge who's... Well, it happened that a poor man had an execution. He had debts, he should pay, period. He went into debt and had no choice but to be executed is that... of course, it is in the interest of the creditor, but it should involve as little as possible hurting the debtor. And in court, even though there was a nailing and a conviction, and as you know, in enforcement proceedings, the conviction is actually a check of the paid money, nothing more has turned out to be money that the creditor of this money has not paid. I'm talking about the creditor who took over the property. He was supposed to put the money in, and he didn't put the money in. And this man wrote complaints, showed papers, asked for three years. If he got that money, he wouldn't be indebted. Unfortunately, it wasn't until three years later that he was in my office. There was an intervention, and we discovered that the money was simply not paid. And now tell me... Of course, nobody took any responsibility, nobody got hurt. Just tell me what this man, who is a poor man today, is an invalid in a wheelchair, lives on the first floor, and doesn't leave the house at all... [[Mrs. Senator...]] I'm done. So let me put it this way: it's not that simple, ladies and gentlemen. The responsibility for some kind of activity, well, our function, is imputed to it and should be... I'm not talking about the whole thing, but in these glaring, extreme situations, it should be imputed. That is why, of course, I would like to thank you for being on this project. I have sent these regulations and thank you very, very much for taking them into account when it comes to this institution of emergency complaint. In conclusion, I think this is the beginning of change at all. As I say, I have dilemmas about other regulations, but I won't talk about them. I'm really finishing up, Mr. Marshal, but I'm going to say this: procedures, c.p.c., c.p.k. This should change. [[Supreme Court President Stanisław Zabłocki: Oh, right!]] Even if it's a matter, I'll say it. Prejudice. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have a situation that even this complaint... [[Senator, 14 minutes...]] Last sentence, last sentence. [[You've extended by four minutes...]] It's my extra five minutes I'm using, okay? And I won't talk again. [[Good.]] Oh, yeah, that's the deal. So even today, even this cassation complaint that affects the court, in what way is it recognized? Prejudice. Who's doing this? One judge at a secret hearing recognizes such a complaint. I'm gonna say it's a fight... Because you talk so much about Europe, you say so much that it is different in Europe, and it should be so with us. Only that, in the system of the European Convention on Human Rights, it is necessary for three judges to accept the complaint as inadmissible, right? And here at a secret hearing, one judge decides whether or not the complaint goes further. [[But the bill doesn't change that.]] And plus all the other things that... This is about c.p.c., the Civil Procedure Code and these changes are very important, because here we are talking about a certain step. As I say, as I said, whether this institution of emergency complaint or responsibility is in my view a solution that will certainly help this citizen downstairs, because we are talking about it. The ordinary citizen who I am and all those people downstairs. And further issues are, above all, a change of procedure, which is c.p.c., c.p.k.k.. [[Mrs. Senator...]] ...what we're talking about, and what I hope is It will become a reality in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski. Going twice, so five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Finally, it became independent and the word "citizen" appeared. It's just that you haven't noticed, Senator, that nothing in this bill is written about this citizen, but you speak the language of the wolf flock, that you must devour the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, which is supposed to mitigate or discipline the courts, or create an interpretation for these courts, as you ask. And that's exactly what I want to talk about, praising you for bringing the issue of citizens' rights back to this room. Yes, it is. And it's not just my opinion. That we here are talking about how to make a purge in the Supreme Court, how to rebuild within 3 months one of the important institutions, which is a service institution against hundreds of courts. But what really needs to be done? Indeed, we need to start by creating a common language of judgments in courts. How many courts, Senator? And you know that, only Jaworowicz doesn't do that... thousands of judgments concerning disabled people, guardians. Some courts think so, others do not think so, and so it is in thousands of cases. Things... I'm already crazy about trash cans. How many courts had a completely different opinion?! And this is the role of the Supreme Court, which I accuse of not tidying up these cases. And finally I call to all of us and to the senator: execution, fool... but this is the last one not for you, because here is a kind of manly An execution, you fool! 320 000 cases already decided by all the courts before which the administrative court has already issued the relevant decisions. What effect? Where's the execution? Similarly, in the case of trash cans, fines are also imposed by the labour inspector. Where's the execution? That's 6%. ! So I call again, I call to us when we enter the rules: execution, you fool! Next case, execution not only of administrative and human affairs... In prisons at the moment 30% Target, seats are available. Prisoners are invited to serve prison sentences. One more question, well, execution... What about business? Exactly, Minister, here's a request for you, you've been very focused, and you've been very legislative about it... The Disciplinary Chamber of these judges... And do you know that someone else has thrown such a slogan, which is the basis of all countries: economy, fool? And here's three words about the economy! Where's the Supreme Court Chamber of Commerce? Drowned between alimony and marital disputes. And this is today's economic nerve, thousands of cases... For example... We didn't make it through maintenance. This is my field, I can lecture here do But it didn't work either in payment interruptions or ministers... A common issue today is the non-regulation of payment obligations for months and years. This, in my opinion, should be dealt with by the Supreme Court, because this is a matter for the country and not for individual courts. You write here, you write here, the president, only three words: that they are to deal with the registers of these companies, and economic law... And we're entering a world of connections, and China hasn't paid us for anything or done the highway wrong... Is there a place... There's room for a juror with middle education, language illiterate, as you've noticed. And is there room for a judge with knowledge of three languages, with knowledge of economic, Polish and international law? This is completely forgotten because this is not covered by the knowledge of the tutor of the President and the Prime Minister, who is called Prosecutor Piotrowicz. Mr. Senator... I'm so sorry, because I forgot... [[Spider.]] Senator Spajek follows the ministers, his colleagues throws the password: the entire court is corrupt. You haven't given us a single example, and you've accused us of all of us because we're here to settle the court. Yeah, you didn't give a single example. All this has to be changed, it's unreliable, because you're accusing me, too, of being in my district. I have an obligation, too. Everything's corrupt. Well, it's not corrupt everything. You're insulting these people. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] [[Mr. Senator, it's been five minutes.]] I've got corrections. Chamber of Commerce in the Supreme Court; not about the jury Because where it continues, as the President said, a huge theoretical debate on the interpretation of the law... [[Mr. Senator, it's been five minutes.]] ...e.g. In the case of trash cans, it's hard for a jury to be e.g. an electro-monster. I know one electro-monster who did it, but... [[Mr. Senator, it's been five minutes.]] ...not in the law. He combined positive and negative pros... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...but it wasn't the law. It was union leadership. [[Senator, don't ignore me. I warn you, it's been five minutes.]] But, Mrs. Marshal, did you feel that way? [[That's how I felt.]] You know, I didn't even feel that... [[That I said something?]] ...that you wouldn't let us ask questions, and that's why I'm sorry I abused... Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: You'll catch up.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Your Marshal was not in session.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u110	Mr. Senator, I wasn't in session at the time. Thank you very much. But are you making these amendments, Senator? [[Yeah, yeah. Thank you for reminding me. Thank you.]] Yeah, okay. Thank you very much. Now please take the floor of Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. [[Mr. Senator, thank you for the economy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u111	I'm very concerned that Senator Rulewski's prisons are empty. [[And I didn't mean to...]] Mr. Senator, I'll tell you why. Because we in our rule of law monitoring team have shown that already more than a thousand cases are taking place in Poland for assemblies, for demonstrations... [[Oh, and that's why I worried...]] Yes. And these are cases already done by the reformed police, ladies and gentlemen, and by the reformed prosecutor's office. Luckily, the courts that are still working acquitted these people, but what's gonna happen, ladies and gentlemen, in a few months' time... Well, we'll wait. Ladies and gentlemen, what amazes me most... I'm already skipping out on these non-constitutional things, and so on. It's very important, but As Senator Augustine said yesterday, I liked it very much. Who cares what the citizen cares that it's against the constitution. For a citizen, this is a completely secondary matter. But if a citizen sees, and a judge is a citizen, and even after these terrible campaigns, I would say that a judge is also a man... If we're looking at these pensions, if you're looking at these acquired rights in terms of retirement, and that's putting the whole end of your life together... Let's just look at this simply, in human terms, what's going on with this early retirement. Let's imagine what would happen if we introduced this. at universities, where it is similar and can also work longer. Let's think, ladies and gentlemen, how would it be, if it were also for Members and Senators, if something like this were suddenly introduced during their term of office, interrupting this term, if something like this were to concern the whole group, and it would only be done to replace the staff composition. Can't we wait two years? Is that how impatient we are? I think it's outrageous to break people's rights just to exchange staff at the Supreme Court. You can... I will answer, because here you have given such a very beautiful argument Prof. Sewerinski and several other senators. These were arguments of such a nature that there were cases where the term of office was broken, that there were cases where acquired rights were not respected. I'm just saying, why do something like this? I understand that there are special situations, completely exceptional, but why do something like this in situations like this when we pretend we want to reform the courts. What does this have to do with the reform of these courts? Senator Staron told us, I even got moved to wait these few months. Do you really think these courts are gonna work so well right now? Senator, do you really think so? We're gonna be here next year and we're gonna talk about it. I assure you, no. And I have proof of that, and that evidence is the Constitutional Tribunal. We heard the same thing in the reform of the Constitutional Tribunal, we heard the assurances that were here, how fantastic it would be that he would finally start working, because until now he has done nothing at all, there will finally be judgments, and finally people will not take high salaries there, they will not sit on vacations, etc., etc. And what do we have right now? Since the reform, we have had a scandal at the Court for scandal and simply poor, ineffective work. Here we go. We've kicked out excellent specialists from the Court, and now we have the judges we have. And here it's gonna be the same. Because what's going on? Do we want to say, please, that the Polish state can afford to have an educated law professor who needs to learn to overcome further levels of his career, acquire knowledge... It's like Professor cardiac surgeon, it's the greatest value for the nation. This is the value of a man who is a judge in the Supreme Court, and we just throw him out at the age of 65, get rid of him with a light hand. Why do we need one of these? We'll find a younger, more useful one. And more perverse. Although I stress once again that I believe in independence and independence, and I believe that these courts will defend themselves somehow, but I think that it will be difficult and this pressure on the judge's environment, the spitting of the judge's environment over the last 2 years will have its long-lasting consequences for the quality of lawmaking in Poland, for the quality of lawmaking and for everything that directly affects us. I am terribly upset by the arguments that the recommendations of the Venice Commission do not apply to us, that we do not have to follow Prof. Strzembosz's opinion, we can completely ignore it, that we can ignore, for example. Resolution of the Council of the Faculty of Law of the Jagiellonian University. Of course we can skip it. We can ignore the opinions of all the judges' organisations, we can ignore the opinions of the international organisations that have spoken on this matter. We can skip it. But why and why? Why should we ignore it? Why can we think that these opinions... Why shouldn't we take these opinions into account? And when we ask for other opinions, it's very difficult at the President's Office. It has already been several times in the case of various laws, to ask what experts prepare these projects and what experts advise them. And then there's the third thing about the fact that the law serves the state and that it still serves the nation. Well, if we add that the law serves you... That sounds really bad. Mr. President of the Supreme Court said that, and I will not repeat these arguments. But the country that serves the nation also sounds terrible. Such a discussion was in the Seym after Kornel Morawiecki's speech, she turned. I will no longer divorce because I probably have little time, but I remind you that apart from the will of the nation or the will of the state there is still something like legal norms and values, the whole axiology on which our civilisation is based. If we leave all this behind and leave only the nation or the state... Well, you know what the will of the nation is. If we did the research, it's like... The nation would say: 'All politicians are in the basket at all, in Siberia best send them.' And maybe most of them would sign off on it. Most of them, as you know, maybe for the death penalty, and we don't have the death penalty. Well, I'm not gonna explain it here, but that's how it works. Let me remind you that apart from the will of the nation or the will of the state, the rulers, there is still such a thing as values as axiology. And that's why we look at the law with the hope that it serves these values. What de facto comes down to the fact that it actually serves man. But not to the nation, because these are two different concepts, these are two different issues. The nation is not a collection of people, it is a completely different concept. In conclusion, I have actually laughed at the idea that the hearings will be broadcast. Ladies and gentlemen, well, that's a fantastic idea. If you have such wonderful ideas, why don't you tell Professor Przyłębska to restore transmissions from the Constitutional Court. Why don't you do it? With one hand, she just took them out, and you can't... Is that what we're ashamed of? And now here you're wiping our eyes with some kind of transmission. Maybe some lady judge Przyłębska will come, close it, and that's all it's gonna be. How did you... [[Time, Senator. Time's up.]] ...you want to prove that you want to make things better, it really rained here. I don't want to repeat it any more, many words, also from the judge's community, about how the courts can be improved quickly and quite easily. I would also like to point out that it was possible to transfer money to courts, not to throw it into very strange things. We've been looking into it a lot here. Weird institutes don't know what they're from, etc. [[Time, Senator.]] And it would speed up court proceedings, perhaps. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u112	Thank you very much. Now you should speak to Marshal Borusewicz, but your Marshal is not here, so I'll ask Mr. Andrzej Spajek. You're welcome. Five minutes, I take it. Yes? Sir... [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[Can I, Mrs. Marshal?]] Excuse me, Senator, as a corrigendum... [[Because you used the senator of my name, I'm literally just saying...]] There you go. You've got about three minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u113	Senator, I think you misunderstood me. I didn't tell you how the courts would work. But it's true, I hope it's okay. And I believe in the wisdom of judges and professionalism, in honesty, in independence. I believe in all this, of course. I was talking about an emergency complaint. That's what I'm talking about. Perhaps it was because you were moved. This emotion is really necessary, even to lean over these people, because there is no such institution today. And we're talking about people who are really hurt, people who are sometimes deprived of a roof over their heads, everything about people like that. We are talking about people who can and should come to fundamental justice, and an institution that will allow them to fight, a legal tool, a legal institution. And that's what I'm talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u114	Thank you very much. And Senator Andrzej Spider. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u115	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to finish quoting a passage from Professor Andrzej Nowak's article. After Montescius, the professor quotes Andrzej Frycz-Modrzewski. And so he goes on to say: "The improvement of the justice system has seen this: its first pillar must be a clear set of laws. In order not to require a separate caste of experts, but in order for every citizen to understand their rights and their limits. The second pillar should be the independence of the courts. That is why he proposed that the Sejm should not be the Supreme Court, but be chosen By the Sejm, of course, because it is the only legal representative of the sovereign A separate appeal tribunal. And let's add Poland introduced such a tribunal in 1578, 170 years before the work of Montescius. However, Frycz added three more important remarks to his programme of reform of the judiciary: judges should be elected from all states (again: not to form a closed group); separate statutes should be made so that no gifts are taken... And finally, it's the most important thing. That everyone should be allowed to complain about the judge! It cannot be that the judge, giving extremely unfair, biased judgment, remains unpunished in his injustice. It can't be. Oh, it is. Frycz-Modrzewski and Montesquius are still waiting to implement their comments to protect us from despotism and injustice. Ladies and gentlemen, doesn't society need a little bit of this elementary justice, that right, that respect for being treated in court? 'Cause it's very, very different, too. We are talking here: democracy, constitution, law, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, the Athenian democracy killed Socrates in the majesty of the law. And also at the beginning of the 18th century Stanisław Konarski wrote: "The law, even the most holy, is the right to cease when the happiness of the nation becomes the opposite." So the law has its limitations, too. I myself here... 'Cause it hurt so much... when the judge, with that kind of contempt, spoke about the jury. Sometimes this simple juror with a spine knows what's black, what's white, what's fair, what's unfair. It's not like that. Maybe he doesn't have such a great mind that he can turn black into white by verbal argumentation and sometimes, let's say, a lot of different additions to that. He has a spine, and in many cases in these courts maybe he would just say, "It's white, it's black, it's fair, and it's stealing or, let's say, some other crime." And in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, these laws will certainly not comply with all the arguments I have said they will not, but if they take a step forward, so I will put it very well. I'm sure I have a lot of doubts. I have a lot of comments. ...maybe not the remarks, but the doubts I was talking about here. I also have doubts whether the Law and Justice will be able to introduce law and justice in Poland. I'm having second thoughts. But I have no doubt that there are a lot of lawlessness and a lot of injustices in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u116	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jarosław Oremski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u117	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The President of the Supreme Court mentioned my name in the morning speech and offered me a role in the Hollywood remake of twelve angry people. Thank you, Mr. Fedorovich and Mr. Senator Pociej. [[And me. With a mask.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm talking about actors. I'm not gonna finish... [[And that's right, I'm a great actor...]] [[You're bragging like that.]] [[Quiet, please.]] But listening to your president, I had the impression that among those 12 angry people, you are already on the side of those who are convinced that the accused of murder is guilty. I must say that listening to your speech, I had a little bit of the impression: aha, but this reform of the Supreme Court is necessary. I understand that when we read the Constitution, we should read it in its entirety and focus on the spirit of writing. And that a certain element of manipulation is the extraction from the context of individual articles or, even worse, a fragment of the article. That's how I understood your statement. But at the same time, I had the impression that you used the same method by bullying yourself for, like, 10 minutes... with a certain exegesis of the two words of the rapporteur in the committee's minutes that examined this project. It was an exegesis of the word to serve, when the master went back even to the form of renouncing, then it was about the fact that he was a servant, a servant... And it ended with a return on the property. Well, that's how it is in Polish, that some words have a wide semantic range. And the word serve on the one hand refers somehow to the minister, and on the other hand there is the adjective of service. Well, it's a very wide range of semantics. I took it all as an element of demagogy and excessive rhetoric. Besides, as a modest chemist, I know a term such as the service of the land, and it does not seem to me that the one who makes the land available is a parachute. or a servant of the one who passes through this area. However, the greater problem is, in my opinion, related to this second element of service to the State. And now I was wondering if there might be a fundamental difference in our reasoning, because you can see yourself as such a Hobbes Leviathan who eats children all the time is dangerous. But even in the word "serve" is something that... well, you can serve not someone or something, something higher. I believe the judges serve something higher. Justice and law. In that order, I give this conjunction so as not to disturb apoliticality. [[Supreme Court President Stanisław Zabłocki: Full consent.]] I have that for me, the state is also citizens, they're kind of inside. It's not just territory, institutions and law. It is also a citizen, also a culture, including a legal culture. If we so understand this dilemma before which the judge is faced to make a choice, e.g. in the event of compensation for the wrongly arrested person, there is no contradiction in my view. If the state is unfair, it washes the soil on which all this is embedded. There is another situation for me of the ombudsman, because the ombudsman... the difference between the situation of the judge and the situation of the ombudsman is that That's how I understand it. That the judge sometimes faces a choice between, as you defined, the interests of the state and the interests of the citizen. It is not that the citizen is always right in colliding with the mechanisms of the state. He's supposed to pay taxes, alimony, etc. The Ombudsman, in turn, is placed in the category of... He's supposed to keep looking at whether the institutions of the state are becoming violent in some sort of situation. The state can be violent in two ways: it can be violent, because it can be overly aggressive, repressive, but also violent through passiveness. Me, for example. I regret the Third Republic of Poland for this base of injustice concerning the failure to account for communist crimes. I have some regret for the Third Republic of Poland for being passive towards the Alimentaries. And that's the situation that the state's passivity means harm. Here I'd call, I'd expect more reprisals. And I think maybe there's a problem here. I wonder if all the Supreme Court judges think in terms of a state without citizens 'Cause that's how I heard your voice. Perhaps if we still had a chance to discuss it, it would turn out that in many views we are closer to each other than further, but I must say that this voice has very, very upset me. A separate thing is what is difficult in this bill. Emergency complaint... Maybe by induction, because I'm sitting next to the senator... [[Old man.]] ...Old man, I'm convinced this is a good institution. I like the jury's idea. As for the interpretation of the constitutionality of the six-year term of office of the President of the Supreme Court, I must face it in my own conscience. It's harder for me that I personally think I'd like to say it anyway. That Mrs Gersdorf is harming the state and harming the justice system. That's my opinion. I must also take into account the issue of taking decisions which are related to this law, by abroad. But, Mr. President, I'm not the only one who's fair. I am deeply convinced that in this remake, which you propose to film here... Everyone in this room is trying to find out in their conscience whether it is a law of good or bad, whether it gives a chance to repair the justice system or the justice system that currently operates in Poland, is a guarantee that we can say that we have a just state. And that's the essence of the trouble. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u118	Thank you very much. Senator Antoni Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u119	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Invited guests! I would like to use my last five minutes in the debate to answer the question that has been raised several times in this debate. It was a question of where the institutions that function at the moment, i.e. the judiciary, the National Judicial Council, come from, whether they are post-communist institutions or have a different pedigree. I have some responsibilities here, and that is why I would like to make this second statement. In August, the idea of "Solidarity" broke out, but already in the autumn, the works committees "Solidarity" were established in individual courts. The first, as I recall, was in Little Oława. The court in Gdansk was one of the first such courts, but not the first. In these works committees there were administrative staff, court curators and judges. The judges argued that the main demand for judicial solidarity should be to fight for the independence of the courts, and other employees accepted it. It was also accepted by the Solidarity itself. The Works Commission in which I acted, i.e. the Committee in the District Court in Gdańsk, was protected by the Works Commission in the yard. Lenin, who had seconded a member of his Management Board, Mr Koziatka, who participated in a number of committee meetings and when there were problems, told the Presidents of the courts, reminded that this committee was under the protection of the Works Committee. The same was true at national level, where Mr Andrzej Stara represented the national commission in talks with the then minister, Mr Bafia, a post-communist minister who did not want to hear about the judgeship. I am talking about this not because it is not to say that the proposals that came up and which were then implemented are perfect and nothing can be changed that they do not degenerate in any way. I just want to make it clear that the independence of the judge and all the attributes that are related to it, including the appropriate pay for the judges, were then very clearly indicated. Of course, it was a revolution of solidarity, and there these ideas appeared very clearly. And it's a good thing it was done. People and judges who fought back then, in particular for judicial independence... well, many of them paid a high price. As soon as martial law was introduced, on Monday, many judges were dismissed from their duties. I would like to mention those from the Gdansk court: Janusz Slężak, President of the Civil Division, Regina Godlewska, Civil Judge, Anna Kurska, dismissed from the role of judge, long-term senator, Barbara Kuklinska, curator. In Poland, due to the fight for independence of judges, it is about the formation of local governments, many judges. It was a price. It is also worth remembering in the context of our discussion. And as I emphasized, this is not an expression that says that nothing should change, that the ideas that developed then are perfect. Life requires changes, rational changes, reasonable changes. But let us remember that then these people and the judicial solidarity fought for judicial independence, for institutions that build up this independence. Because it's not just as it is sometimes here in the statements that the judge himself, regardless of the difficult external and internal situation in court, should be independent. We must create all conditions for this independence to be realized. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u120	Thank you. Senator Władysław Komarnicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u121	Dear Marshal! Dear Senators! The government, along with the PiS, gave us what no one reasonable could expect. Because the main task of the new law on court is to ensure that free courts in Poland simply does not exist, that every sentence is a political decision, finally, that Parliament with your majority can adopt any law, also openly contrary to the law, or constitution. You argue that Parliament is the voice of the sovereign. That's not true. Parliament is the voice of the representatives of the sovereign, and the sovereign of the Republic of Poland is the Polish nation, not the Members and Senators. It is the Polish nation. Neither constitutional ministers nor judges are sovereigns. As I have already said, the sovereign is the whole nation, not its part, which simply voted for a political party. Let me remind you something. Since you are so eager to appeal to the will of the people, please remember that there was a constitutional referendum in which the sovereign expressed a lasting will to bind himself and his authorities with a constitution. Did anybody at that time hear the nation demand that the courts be politicized? The new division of the Supreme Court is two chambers: the Disciplinary Chamber and the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs. The Disciplinary Chamber, as has been said many times here, is a kind of security security, a chamber that is to hold judges, prosecutors, lawyers and legal advisers in the face. The prerogatives of the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs are much more interesting because this Chamber will deal with possible complaints against the decisions of the National Radio and Television Council about not admitting or receiving private concessions to radio and television broadcasters. This chamber is nothing more than a muzzle set up today for free media. I am very sorry that despite the appeal of so many environments Once again, so shamefully, in a derogatory way of democracy, attempts to destroy the KRS and the Supreme Court. I know you have the majority and you can vote it all out, but, for God's sake, there are limits to common sense. The Supreme Court judge appealed for this reason, begged and begged. The Senate is called the House of Reflection and I am a man of dignified age. In a very cordial way, I am asking you today for this reflection, common sense. Please. I'm asking you, the PiS senators, not to vote on this bill. I completely sign the appeal of the Supreme Court judge. It was a dramatic appeal. I deeply believe in reflection. Let us really think, in an honest way, how this House commands us: will a constitution be necessary after this law has been passed? Ladies and gentlemen, reforms must be introduced. I'm signing off on it. It makes our country more efficient and stronger. I'm absolutely in favour. However, on the pity, scale and boundaries of these reforms, we have a constitution that we, parliamentarians and authorities must absolutely respect. Otherwise, we don't make a bill, we just make it look like we're doing it, and that's not what reasonable people are willing to do. I fully support Senator Rulewski. 'Cause if this bill wasn't called a staff policy bill, you'd have prepared it differently when it comes to entrepreneurs... I agree it's laughter. In the O.R., that's one sentence. As a multi-annual entrepreneur, I condemn the poor preparation of courts for economic life, but you have not proposed anything. Nothing, nothing at all. And I'm in favour of Senator Rulewski's amendment. Perhaps you, as the creator of this bill, will wake up. Because you know very well that many companies are dying just because courts can't move in economic life. The Treasury suffers from this, and don't forget it. Thank you very much for your attention, and I hope that this reflection, as far as you are concerned, will be as we imagined, and as the Supreme Court judge dramatically appealed. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u122	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Fedorovich. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Senate! This is a very difficult day for our democracy. I listened to my fellow Senators in Law and Justice. Very beautiful, really, Mr Senator Szymański, you have cited passages about history, showing how the courts under the authority of the commune decided about human fate, most often without righteous judgments. It's very difficult for me, because I've been experiencing this drama for a few months now, many people I hear here outside the window, and those who call me to the Presidential Palace at 7:00 p.m. Here, by the way, to Minister Fly: come to the Presidential Palace at 7:00 p.m. for the demonstration of the chain of men, give this information. Yes, Mr. President Andrzej Dudo, the Krakowian, then I was under this palace, and a few days later you vetoed this bill and people breathed. Now they're also there so that you don't bow to the pressure of negotiations that happened in the shadows of offices, without the so-called. transparency. We'll see. Senator Obremski, who is my dear friend, was gracious to disagree in many points with the speech of a man whom I assessed this morning and it has already reflected in the media as one of the most serious speeches in defence of the freedom and independence of courts. Counselor Zabłocki, Judge Stanisław Zabłocki, I will tell you that this is already written in the history of the Republic of Poland. The outcome of this vote will depend on whether you can save it or whether you will be Rejtan, who has failed. I'm afraid it might be the other one. I just want to say that none of you are afraid to be the one righteous of twelve angry people with the great role of Fonda, because this is quite a difficult task. I don't want to invoke myself, but I was able to reconcile skinheads with punks once, and then the whole world opened up to me. Cracow respect for people who don't break the law made me a senator and I can't let them down. I must say with all my determination that this bill is absolutely unacceptable. I'm already overlooking the fact that she gives politicians full authority over the Supreme Court and the National Judicial Council, but she has so many remarks about anti-constitutionality... Can I have a glass of water, please? Thank you. ...that I cannot imagine, as a former member of the governing coalition, that I can afford in any way before my superior, Prime Minister or Minister, to bring into the Chamber a bill to which there are such remarks, very critical, even crushing, emphasized here by the Ombudsman and by the President of the Court. This is already a matter of how you approach lawmaking. I will be ashamed of myself many times, because sometimes we have seen a bill that was a constitutional mess, but there is still some strange belief that unfortunately has little to do with the reality that the Constitutional Tribunal will deal with it. Ha, sure the Constitutional Court can handle that. We know what squad they're in. The Constitutional Tribunal shall act and how the good name and dignity of the former Presidents of the Constitutional Tribunal are borne. Such a thing in free Poland, in which I have lived for more than 20 years, was not yet there. And now, finally, I want to make citizens, especially the Krakowans, who are watching me right now and listening to the fact that there are many examples of the fact that the courts or prosecutors are already starting to act at the direction of the rulers. In Krakow... Thank you, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, for reminding me of the story of an outstanding professor, Mr Dudka, and his father-in-law Jack Dubiel, who saved the lives of many citizens in our city, including many of my friends. Harassing him through constant appeals, deletions and play with sentences is a disgrace to Polish justice. There's no permission to do that. We all know exactly You just need to read any web portal that tells the truth What the situation looks like, including entering the CBA at 6:00 a.m., including this penetration, tracking. Both hospitals in Cracow, the hospital in Cracow. John Paul II and the clinic, are under constant fire of investigators just because medical misfortune has occurred, what happens often. Maybe it shouldn't have happened, but the doctor's fault was that, as we know from the double sentence of the court, it wasn't. Unfortunately, another procedure has been implemented and it may turn out that one of the most outstanding cardiologists and cardiac surgeons will have to leave Poland and work for someone else. And we warn against such procedures. That's why none of us reasonable, none of us, will even try to vote for this bill. To conclude, I am only referring to your consciences, because you will still vote as your conscience will allow you. We will see whose conscience will be calmer when it turns out that a righteous sentence will be decided by another team of people managing this country. Thank you very much. [[This country is Poland.]] Our country. Don't be nervous. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u124	Thank you very much. And Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u125	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear guests! I'll be brief, but I need to share some reflection from today's long-term discussion. I also saw the voices of reason in it. This is a bow towards two senators, Senator Bobka and Senator Szymanski. But in the context of this whole discussion, I could call these voices the voices of political naivety. And I will also count my vote to these voices of political naivety, because each side stands firm in its position and has no will to dialogue which could repair this law in any way. I take the Supreme Court Act as a typical assassination of judges who are the year of their birth, who were born before 1953, and only personnel changes will ensure the correct, i.e. according to the political will, the action of the courts. That's how I take this bill. The question therefore arises: is the establishment of a Disciplinary Chamber supposed to be a panacea for the smooth functioning of courts? Isn't there a current review of the smooth functioning of justice in the courts? I think it is, but maybe it's malfunctioning. But it doesn't report directly to the Supreme Court. I am afraid that the Disciplinary Chamber is to act as a servant, you used such a word as the President of the Supreme Court in terms of political demand. I am authorized to do so by one of the law professors, Krystyna Pawłowicz, who reads as follows: "I hope that the judges who prevent us from making changes will be held accountable to the Disciplinar Chamber." Is this what the Disciplinary Chamber is called for to judge judges who want to have their own opinion and defend the Constitution? I'm afraid this bill... no, not that I'm afraid, I think this bill is wrong. She shouldn't be accepted. And I'm full of fears about what the future will bring. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u126	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u127	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask questions, of course, but in my speech I will ask questions to the judge because I am not an alpha and an omega, I am not a forensic specialist. I don't think I was interested in the courts, the courts were interested in me, and that's the only reason I have a piece of practical education. I also hope, Judge, that you will speak again because you have the right under the article. 52 Rules of Procedure shall be adopted at any time of discussion. And I am also sure that the senators who have argued with you, Senator Czerwiński, Mr. Senator Oremski, if the speakers do not want to give you this voice, they will defend you. An argument for changes in courts, or basically for ripping up these courts, and all levels... After all, the law on common courts leads to this. It leads to the manual control of the courts by appointment and dismissal of the presidents of all levels, vice presidents, heads of departments, visitors, i.e. all those who are in charge. You said I heard that sentence I agree with. That the most important thing is the internal independence of the judges. Yeah, she's the most important one. But if the judge After all, all those judges who will be appointed, who have been appointed in accordance with the new law by the Minister of Justice and the Prosecutor General, that is, the one who can cancel them without any justification... It's clear they're gonna be addicted. Therefore, there is no need to addict or break the character of everyone in court. We'll just have to have three judges on the table. Well, maybe two is enough. [[Yes, sir, unfortunately.]] That's what this is about. Are we too suspicious, or am I too suspicious? Not at all. But we see these changes that have been happening for two years in different areas. Yeah, on TV. It was supposed to be objective, better. What do we see? A propaganda tube that prepares operations like this in court. After all, first on this television, called the public, individual examples are given and there is generalisation: all judges steal, all judges are dishonest. And that argument that society is dissatisfied with judges... Well, it's clear that a large part of society is dissatisfied with judges. And it's not because judges are dishonest, it's because in private cases half wins and half loses. Those who lose think it's going wrong. And in criminal matters, every man sitting and serving a sentence says he's in jail for his innocence, only the judge was subpoenaed, dishonest. So when it comes to criminal cases, it's basically 100%. Those who have gotten into justice are dissatisfied with this dimension. Chronicity is a problem, but I repeat once again: in this previous law that we are investigating, and the Supreme Court Act there are no elements that improve the judicial procedure, shorten this procedure. There's nothing from what seemed to be the basis. I think it's a very bad bill. A bill to be rejected. That's why I'm filing a motion to reject this bill. She shouldn't be passed, and if she's passed, it'll be a remorse. all of us who vote in favour or vote in favour, but also those who vote against but failed to convince the others. I also make amendments because I think it's horrendous to introduce an age criterion that breaks the constitution, interrupts a six-year term. Of course, it's not about the general rules, it's about President Gersdorf. It's clear to me. And finally, I have a question, maybe someone will be able to answer me, and if they don't, it will hang in a vacuum. We're talking about common courts, that's good. And what about the age criterion in the bishop's courts? It's a completely different structure, but judges are judges. And how is it in the Roman Roth, in this supreme court in the Vatican? Is there such a criterion? If so, how much is it? [[The voice from the room: It's already out of line.]] I think that the wisdom of the Catholic Church is much more wisdom than the wisdom of those who propose such laws. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u128	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator Grzegorz Napieralski. You're welcome, Senator. [[This is God's wisdom, Mr. Marshal.]] [[God's wisdom is...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u129	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Good Guests! I am on this floor because some of the voices of the Senators of Law and Justice inspired me to say this, especially the voice of Senator Szymański, who spoke about the employees in the courts, the jurors, those who cooperate with the judges, that the whole political debate that is going on today is really very low in morale, but also makes them feel that they are underestimating their hard work. I would just like to say that, unfortunately, law and justice politicians have introduced the worst wording to the public debate. Because we all agree on the reform of the justice system, as well as on the individual changes, but as for the quality of these changes and how they are implemented, we have different opinions. And it is a pity that, as the President of the Supreme Court has said in this debate today, this long peaceful discussion on how to fix the justice system and perhaps not even how to fix it, and how to adapt it to the modern needs of a modern, democratic, free state. It is a pity that this debate between the opposition and the rulers lacked such a high level of activity of individual ministers or even of the head of state also in this debate. And it happened, as Senator Szymański said, that those people who actually work today and are trying to help people in the smallest cases today are getting very hard on their heads just because some people want to raise political capital in this debate. It's sad and it's a shame that it's happening. And whoever's in charge, we have the most important and most difficult reform ahead of us. As Marshal Borusewicz has just said, it is so that in order to talk about judicial reform, the recovery of the judiciary, the changes in the judiciary, the justice system, one must be a very, very mature society and have powerful knowledge. Because it's exactly like the marshal said: 50% wins, 50% loses, and those who lose can always feel sorry for themselves. And that's why this conversation and this discussion about repair, about change, about justice reform is so difficult. But I have this feeling. When I listen to this debate, yesterday and today The fact that no arguments, no appeals, and no requests for a fair discussion in this matter are made to the susceptible majority of Parliament, that anyone who would take the floor, who would present concrete examples, concrete records, from further history or from the most modern history of our history, turns out in the end that the representatives of the parliamentary majority accuse us of being afraid of something, we defend something, but, above all, false accusations are being made. And I have this conclusion, or maybe a request or a suggestion to the majority, to today's parliamentary majority. And here again I was inspired by Senator Czerwiński, who remembered so well how he voted in 2002, what law he said then, how he voted and what circle he was in then, what the wheel was called and why he voted so. So I have a request, a suggestion, an appeal: Ladies and gentlemen, remember exactly what you voted on and how you voted now. Remember this vote and remember what you said from that speaker and from the Seymary. Because there's gonna be a time like this, soon, and maybe we'll wait a little longer for him, but there's gonna be a time when you lose the election with a mole, and you lose this election. And you can have all the institutions of the state, you can have all the media, but you know exactly that there's a time coming. And our story, the recent one, showed it. That power is changing and someone else is coming, perhaps those parliamentarians who are sitting on this side, and perhaps completely other parliamentarians who are neither in this Chamber nor in the Seym. But those who will come and win these elections in a democratic way, who will win this power, many laws will no longer have to change, because they are already there. And they're just gonna do the same thing you guys do, but no night votes. More, where they won't be able to do something... well, you showed them a wonderful way, how you can bend the law and how you can ruin the law, how you can introduce new standards into reality and what you can do with people who really work for Poland, and how you can defile their hard work. So remember, please, what you're doing, remember the procedures you're introducing, remember how these laws were processed, and remember really how you've been taking the floor at the points, about the laws, and which button you pressed afterwards. Because while you're yelling, when you're asking for a debate, when you're talking to the president, the prime minister, the minister, the parliament hall and the senate room, a parliamentarian will come out of the new ruling majority, pull a card out of the transcripts and remind you of your words. And it will be the most painful for you, but at the same time the most interesting science in life. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u130	You have a voice, Senator Borowski. [[How did Mr Czerwinski vote for or against?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I don't think it's gonna take that long to make that confrontation that Senator Napieralski was talking about. All you have to do is reach out to the transcripts of June this year, when the same laws, only in a different shape, were here, in this room discussed. Even before the presidential veto. [[Yeah, yeah.]] Well then the same or almost the same Senators of Law and Justice on this speaker proved that absolutely everything is in line with the constitution and that what the opposition says is simply obstruction, defense of the old order, destruction, obstruction, etc. etc. So? It's been a month since the adoption, Mr. President vetoed both laws, and suddenly it turns out that maybe it doesn't comply with the constitution. It's true, isn't it? I don't know... Do you have any reflection on this at all? Is this the sheep's momentum: we're moving forward because the president says so? I have to say, as long as we talked about the National Judicial Council yesterday and, of course, there were unconstitutional records... By the way, there's another one that we've been talking about a little bit less. The Constitution also states that the National Judicial Council consists of representatives of 4 types of courts, there must be representatives of these 4 types of courts. What's in the bill? That as far as possible. That's the way it's gonna be, as far as possible. Well, ladies and gentlemen, you just break that constitution every step of the way. And then it starts being so lawyery... although maybe I'm insulting lawyers here. [[Well, well!]] You start this causi-perdition, reading this, and this is that article, and that's each individual, and so on. Senator Czerwiński is, I must say, a specialist in this field, very precise. Yesterday, I already referred to his remarks and so to speak, ended up like that Indiana Jones. I read what the Constitutional Tribunal said in this case, that's it, period. And all that talk just went to shit. [[I'll get right on it. Don't get excited.]] It's okay. Mr. Senator, Deputy Marshal... [[Sewerinski.]] ...Marshal Sewerinski always very culturally and very calmly explains why yes and no different. Well, Mr. Marshal, in the end you said, among other things, that you deeply believe that the overwhelming majority of judges are independent and so on. etc. Well, if that's the case, then why the change? Then why is it done on such a scale? [[Yes, sir!]] Because I would understand if some adjustments were to be made and so on. But no. 40% Supreme Court judges, the entire National Judicial Council is chosen in a completely different way, etc. So unfortunately, you, Mr. Marshal, are trying to prove certain issues, trying to rationalize them, but that is an internal contradiction. Or - Okay, okay, okay, Or these judges are actually some corrupt caste. I'm just asking you to prove it. And you really have to throw it all away and replace it, or they're in the overwhelming majority of them honest and solid. Well, one of the two. Come on. I will continue to refer to the speech of the marshal. The marshal says, well, there are things that are not unambiguous, experts have different views. The compatibility of laws with the Constitution, the adoption of laws in accordance with the Constitution is this: either experts generally do not raise objections, or the overwhelming majority of experts raise reservations, and then they should not be passed such a law, or indeed there is a significant division, and it is possible to read it, to think about it, etc., and then it is necessary to decide whether to adopt a law in such a form or not to adopt it. In the Sejm, 7 experts were asked to comment on this bill, 6 of which were negative, 5 of which were crushing... 1 milder, but also with many reservations... And only 1 of them I'm not gonna mention his name because that's not the point. This is an expert who has been very positive about the government's actions. Okay, he has the right. Except there's always an expert who says otherwise... So? And that's enough to make explicit non-constitutional laws? No, Mr. Marshal, this is not the way. Now it's a matter of age... [[Time's up.]] I'm almost done. I'm gonna talk about one more thing about the retirement age case. Of course... Mr. Senator Czerwiński reads one thing, reads the other and says that it says that this age is the reason that you're going out. But the statement that the judge is inextricable means something. You can't use a retirement age to remove a judge. Yes, if the judge exceeds his retirement age, normally he goes into an inactive state, but if the retirement age is applied in the ordinary law to remove the judge, it is against the constitution, it is unfair, it is not fair. This was also the judgment given by the European Court of Human Rights on the Hungarian President of the Supreme Court, Baki. Because that's where the age was reduced to remove it. Yeah, well, I'm really asking you not to operate on these... Because on the same principle, you could say that the next team is coming and it's gonna lower the retirement age... Because what I'm trying to say is that the bill doesn't talk about retirement age, it just talks about the age after which the judge goes out. So, here we go, another team is coming, he's gonna figure out it's gonna be 60 years, and he's gonna kick everybody out because she's gonna love it. Not that way, absolutely not that way. Finally, one more thing. Senator Bobko said, "Can the Senate take anything seriously?" Well, maybe, only if there's a serious conversation. 48 hours of discussion, as you say. And why hasn't this project been discussed long enough before, hadn't it been consulted long enough? He wasn't. At the last minute, additional amendments were made, etc... [[Mr. Senator, time's up.]] Yes, sir. I still want to say that I have tabled an amendment. I have tabled an amendment that is such a test, ladies and gentlemen. There's only one thing written in there. Namely, it says that... because it's hard, you lower your retirement age here, others will go away... But if this isn't meant to be directed against the first president, then and the amendment states that it refers to transitional provisions This should not apply to the current President-in-Office. Thus, if this amendment is rejected, if the law is adopted without this amendment, it means that the matter is clear and it is clear what the purpose of this law was. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u132	You have a voice, Senator Czerwinski. [[You're the one who let a Trojan horse into the bill...]] Please, a second time, so five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! Mr. Spokesman! Minister! I want to refer to the two statements that fell here and which, as if directly related to my statements. The first is Senator Pociej's statement, which is not in the courtroom at the moment, but I hope the senator can hear us or read it. Well, Senator Pociej suggested that the bill is being amended precisely for what you said to the senator, Mr. Marshal Borowski, to get rid of the first Supreme Court President. [[Among other things.]] That would be the case, if, for example. That's how they set this age so it's very different from the standards. What's the standard? What is the general retirement age? Or did we also regret this general retirement age to get rid of the first Supreme Court president? 'Cause that's still the way it's gonna be. Well, the general retirement age is 65 years. [[Talking in the O.R.]] 65 years old. And what we're going to call retirement age for Supreme Court judges is also 65 years old. Of course, there's one exception... Actually, there are two exceptions. Namely, this age may be increased, in quotes, by the President at the request of the person concerned. The second exception concerns Supreme Court judges, but women. Well, these women. They can normally retire at the age of 60 years old and may apply for early retirement, i.e. At the age of 60, transfer to rest. So my question is, where are the differences? Do you want to prove to me here, gentlemen of the Senators, Senator Pociej and Marshal Borowski, that we have changed the entire pension system in order to equalize this retirement age and finally get rid of your first Supreme Court President? Ladies and gentlemen, there is no way to defend such reasoning. Really. We've adjusted. I'll say it again. The provisions relating to the Supreme Court to those of general retirement age. Is that so unobvious? The second point relates directly to what your marshal said about what happened yesterday in this room. I couldn't relate to what you told the marshal here because, first of all, I didn't have the opportunity to use my five minutes, and second of all, I didn't have the sources. Well, it's hard to be surprised by an exception, one sentence taken out of a sentence. But I did find this sentence that the marshal used and which the marshal put in such a comment. It stated that in 2007 the Constitutional Tribunal spoke about the election and electoral procedures of the National Council of Courts. Indeed, there is one sentence in the Court's explanatory memorandum that... I'll give them to you in a minute. However, this sentence and the entire trial were in a completely different case. The judgment in Case K 25/07 did not determine who had the right to elect the judges of the National Courts of Justice. The subject of this review was the inadmissibility of the appointment to act as President or Vice-President of the General Court of a Judge who was a member of the National Courts of Justice. It's a completely different subject. Let me say another way: the Constitutional Tribunal did not state in this judgment the choice of judges and electoral procedures to the National Courts. He talked about whether it was possible to combine the position of President or Vice President of the General Court with that of a member of the National Court; by the way, he said it could be combined. It's a completely different matter. The Constitution directly governs the principle of election of judges to the National Courts of Justice, thus deciding on the personal structure of the Council, and clearly states that the members of the National Courts may be elected by judges without indicating any additional features which would condition their membership of the Council. And the Court told the truth because it was in force at the time. And it's still in force so far. A law giving judges the right to choose a judge's membership to the National Courts of Justice. Since the right to choose is not clearly defined, the constitution does not define it, we can give it to the judges and then it will be a true sentence. But we can also give them to, I don't know, some other body, and it's also going to be a real sentence. This is a statement of fact. That's how you read it. Again: the Court has not spoken in this regard. Perhaps he will speak and then we will see what the conclusion will be in this respect. Mr. Marshal Borowski, please use your sources more honestly in the future. [[I'll answer you right away.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u134	Senator Boris-Damięcka has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u135	I thought Marshal Borowski would speak ad vocem... [[No, no.]] ...that's why I didn't get ready to leave... Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address my speech very directly to the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda. I am pleased that both of you are in the Chamber because Minister Mucha was so often called from the Chamber that I was afraid that I would not be able to direct this speech to both of you, so please be very kind... Therefore, Mr President, both of your draft laws have been so demolished and devastated by the amendments of Law and Justice that I am asking on my own behalf, as a private senator of the Republic of Poland, the Senate of the Republic of Poland, but also as a citizen of this country, as well as on behalf of many representatives of our country, the sovereign, citizens, electorate, with a request, or, in fact, for the President to veto those laws which do not have the right to enter into force. These are harmful laws, these are laws that will harm justice, these are laws that do not resemble in anything or only to a very small degree the laws that you have proposed, and we do not know to the full extent how many amendments have been tabled by the representatives of Law and Justice, because no one could have been familiar with these amendments before. No one could answer a few questions that were rained yesterday and today in this room, to say what is their number, number, total. 850, 25, 300, 150? How many of these adjustments are there? And to what extent was this trashed? So that I am very cordially appealing to the President to veto these laws. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u136	Mr. Senator Borowski in what mode? [[Voice from the room: This is the second speech.]] Two. There you go. [[Five minutes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator Czerwinski, I just have a favor to ask. Could you please remember the first three words in that sentence you read? The first three words. [[Which sentence?]] Yeah, from that quote. [[Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, ……]] [[But I wouldn't read it.]] [[Be serious.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Wait a minute, I need to find it.]] Well, I'll help you, it starts with the word Constitution. [[The role of the PZPR. Is that what this is about, the lead role?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Continue, Senator.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yes. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u138	If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal, of course. I don't know if I can... [[If Senator Borowski needs your help, give it to her.]] [[Please.]] [[Maybe a doctor's?]] [[What kind of dialogue is this?]] Listen to this: The Constitution in Article. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. Paragraph 1 (2) directly governs the principle of the selection of judges to the National Courts of Justice, thus determining the personal structure of the Board. Not who chooses, but who chooses. [[Just a little further.]] May I? It makes it clear that judges elected by judges may be members of the National Courts of Justice... [[Thank you.]] ...without pointing out any... [[Okay, thank you...]] ...other features that would condition their membership of the Council... [[...the rest is about something else.]] This is a statement of fact, ladies and gentlemen, the first sentence explains what it is about. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u139	You have a voice, Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u140	I've already gotten help. It's clearly defined. You're a language interpreter. It's clearly defined. Who makes it clear? Constitution. That's the beginning of that sentence. And that's all there is to it. Not a bill. This is case one. Case two, about this age, what you've raised here again. At the moment, the Supreme Court judges can work until they are seventy years old. I would like to point out that 70 years is above the retirement age of both the old, the new and the present. Not 65, not 67, only 70. That was just the law on this matter. Therefore, if someone lowers this age, in this case to 65 years of age, then the question arises as to why he is doing so. This isn't a retirement age reduction, Senator. The retirement age is beyond all of this. It was 67 years old, now it's 65, and the judges were 70 years old. If someone lowers the retirement age for judges of the Supreme Court from 70 years to retirement age and suddenly says it's retirement age, it means he's just manipulating. The point is to eliminate a certain number of judges from this court. Among them is the first president. You could at least make an exception for the first president because the constitution talks about 6 years, but it was not an exception, but was insisted on the retirement age. So once again, I'm saying that perhaps the president... Well, I don't believe it. Minister Mucha, not to mention the Minister, is an experienced lawyer and would certainly be able to construct such a provision. Maybe in this mess of work. You're missing it somehow. That is why I have tabled such an amendment and I propose to accept it, because it will resolve any doubts. This does not change the fact that, of course, the reduction in this age from 70 to 65 was intended to eliminate almost half of the judges of the Supreme Court. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u141	Thank you. The next speaker is Senator Silence. [[This is euthanasia.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u142	Mr. Marshal! Judge! Minister! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! According to this principle, which you spoke of, the Sewerin marshal, the rule of audience et altera pars. I took the liberty of speaking at the end, trying to listen as far as possible to all the previous speeches. And, ladies and gentlemen, what picture do I draw? I will say one thing: it would certainly be best if the justice system were to function in such a way that it would not be social pressure to make changes so that there would not be various associations of the victims and that the rulers would not be pressured to make a difference. Well, you know that's not the case, unfortunately. The question is, of course, if you change, how? There is always a question of which measures to use and whether they remain in the right proportion to the intended goal. That is why I have listened carefully here to the arguments of all the states, and of the applicants, and of your judge, who is a great authority for me. Well, not to mention he's also a colleague of mine. We defended people in martial law: Mr. Judge, still as a lawyer, in Warsaw, I in Cracow. The judge is an example of the crowning of a career by achieving a dignified role as Supreme Court Judge, which for every lawyer in every democratic state of law is a kind of dream and, as I said, crowning the career path. I therefore believe that these comments must be listened to with due care. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are actually dealing with very complex matter here. As in the case of the previous law, I referred to that there is indeed a legal gap here, which we can fix, going either way, so here we are dealing with a slightly different situation, because we are amending the law, which has been in operation for many years now. We want to achieve the intended objectives mainly by amending... maybe not even the Supreme Court Act itself, but on this occasion the Law on the System of Universal Courts... It goes on, among other things. to introduce another model of disciplinary justice. We also make changes to the Supreme Court Act, reducing the retirement age of judges. What I'm trying to say is it's not really new. For example, in the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, on the occasion of Protocol No 11, which has changed its operation since 1989, the retirement age of judges has also been reduced. Up to the age of seventy. Of course, it's a matter of... [[New, new...]] Of course, it's a matter of how it was done. Senator Rulewski tells me that the new... Yeah, I was just gonna say that. Thank you for a hint that wasn't necessary because I knew it. It is therefore necessary to consider the possible risk of such regulation, which concerns certain situations. There's something in the law that you're talking about, like a legitimate executation. Those judges who are already employed and know when their term of employment ends are entitled to expect that at this point in time, which counts from the time of appointment, their term of office will end. Meanwhile, we're making a change here, which, however, shortens some of the... This is calculated as follows: That's what I read in the explanatory statement. That this solution will affect about 30% of the Supreme Court judges. Well, so will the president of the Supreme Court. There's a constitutional record of a six-year term. So you can't look at it any other way than... Well, she'll also be affected by the shortening of her term of office. Given that we have some precedents in the case law of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, such as. the case of the President of the Hungarian Supreme Court of Baki, by the way, was the previous judge of the Strasbourg Court, who lost his position as President before the end of his term of office... There has been a change in the term of office due to the fact that not so much has been introduced a reduction in the threshold, the retirement age, as we do, but the requirement that we be the President of this court. Also, there has been a change in the name of this court It is necessary to have a 5-year working period in the Hungarian judiciary. And meanwhile, he had an internship, no. in the Hungarian judiciary, only 9 years old at the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. And the tribunal came to the conclusion that this is an interference that constitutes a violation of the European Convention on Human Rights and, as a result, imposed EUR 100,000 in compensation for it. This is what I speak as a man who, as you know, has been dealing with the case law of the European Court of Human Rights for many, many years. Well, there's a similar thing with the other judges... We, by introducing this regulation, of course risk... You mentioned that perhaps the Constitutional Tribunal or the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg would take a different position. You have to be aware of that. As a lawyer, a lawyer for 35 years, I think it's necessary to mention it, because it would be unfair if I didn't say so. Ladies and gentlemen, there are some things I consider to be a big step forward. This is especially about making amends to people and making amends to the harm they have suffered as a result of the unfortunate judgments of our courts. This misfortune is due to various reasons, not necessarily the fault of the judges. Very often it follows that procedures have been and are being followed, which very often bind hands to judges and force them not to pursue the material truth. Since 1996, when the procedure has been changed and the determination of material truth has been abandoned, replacing it with counter-disciptory truth, the process unfortunately resembles a game on a chessboard: who is smarter in this game has a better chance of winning, because the judge is only and only an arbiter who is to weigh on the balance of arguments and settle which prevails. And surprisingly, he can't. Which is a huge absurdity, e.g. Let the evidence come from the public even though it wants to come to the truth. 'Cause that's the procedure, unfortunately. Lawyers also have their hands tied. Because the interpretation of the procedure is that the party, and even more so the lawyer, as a professional, is obliged to draw the attention of the court to procedural misconduct, which leads to such absurdity that it is obliged, for example. draw the judge's attention to the fact that he violated the procedure by refusing to allow specific evidence. To be honest, as long as I've been a lawyer, I haven't seen the judge, as a result of pointing out that he didn't allow evidence, changed his resolve, hit his chest and said, "Yes, you're right, I'm allowing evidence." Well, ladies and gentlemen, man is only human. If the judge is convinced that he has rightly dismissed the evidence, then he is holding on to it consistently, and once again paying attention to him leads him to believe that he is dealing with a vicious party who is trying to teach him and point out that he is unknown to anyone, to some unlearned person or to a man of bad will. These are absurd procedures that only unnecessarily introduce tension situations. There are other absurdities that I mentioned at the committee meeting, e.g. Making postmen's lawyers. There's this ridiculous recipe that... [[Mr. Senator, time's up.]] I'm the one who's gonna let me make it up later in the extra time, okay? [[How about right away?]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u143	You have a voice, Senator Czerwinski, in correction mode. Please. [[Literally one sentence...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet in the courtroom, please. [[I'd like to explain...]] [[I'm gonna start by saying...]] I haven't given you the floor yet. This is Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u144	I would just like to explain to Marshal Borowski that the legal meaning... is that only the judgments are published, not the justifications or statements of reasons.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u145	Thank you. Senator Fedorovich. Second time, five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u146	Thank you very much. My main statement has already been made, so I'll be brief. I'd like us to think, Mr. Counselor and Dear Senator Silence, that we are mostly not lawyers here. Your statement is very beautiful, especially the story of the Hungarian Judge Baka, which is repeated here. But then I want to know... When you have your speech, I'd like to... If the President of our court in connection with these non-constitutional provisions of the contested law, of course I hope that he will not pass his position, which guarantees her constitution... Because the constitution guarantees the President of the court that it is inextricable for six years. If she refers to a tribunal in Strasbourg or another court of justice, will the Polish state pay these damages? Because maybe besides this unconstitutionality, there's still a huge issue of mismanagement? Mr. and Mrs. Senators, do we not remember that we talked about the so-called. complaints... some, uh, important... Words have been said here that this will require a newly built building and dozens of jobs. Do we think that the state budget can afford such a thing with the introduction of such a legal document? Finally, I would just like to remind you that we, the senators who are not lawyers, are using experts. And since I'm getting information from another senator that for seven experts, six have shown that the bill has so many flaws, it's so unconstitutional, I'm very sorry, but I'm determined how to vote... And what we're talking about... Well, I don't want us to end this meeting with an outstanding lawyer who defended people and knows about it... Because that's not the job of the Senate. We must make a decision, and according to our opinion, ours and those people whom I think I represent, this law cannot go through Parliament at all, because it contains unconstitutional provisions. Thank you very much. [[And you said you weren't a lawyer.]] [[No, but the lawyers told me that.]] [[Are you listening to everyone like that?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u147	You have a voice, Senator Klich. Second time, right? [[One.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u148	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! This building could be built. The extra money could be found and spent on it. What's the point? We are witnesses and participants in a great operation. This isn't an operation that started in July this year. It's been going on for two years. We're looking at her like she's through a keyhole because the rulers are revealing to us the next stages of this operation. This surgery has been successful so far, only every time the patient has suffered injury. And I'm afraid if today or tomorrow the Supreme Court Act and the KRS Act are overruled, the patient will die in front of us. Because this is an operation where poisoned tools are used. This is an operation whose purpose is different from that declared. At least I have no doubt about it. This is a big operation. I would like to call it "taking full control of justice," starting with what the government should control, like services and police, and ending with what should be autonomous towards political power. Previously the prosecution, the Constitutional Court, now the Supreme Court and the National Courts. In other words, this is an operation in which it is about taking over the fullness of power, including what has so far belonged to the citizens. And in this sense, the declared objectives are incompatible with the actual course of this operation. Why? First of all, for reasons of justification. I, too, may have reservations about the courts that have twice ruled in cases where I filed a lawsuit. I wasn't entirely satisfied with the judgment. But it never occurred to me to transfer my lack of satisfaction to the entire justice system. My mother, a master of law, has taught me throughout my life that it is forbidden to comment on the actions of the justice system, because it undermines his authority. That we can do it at home, but not in public. What has happened in the last few years in front of us? Not only does everyone comment, but many have planned propaganda campaigns against independent courts. And those billboards are just the tip of the iceberg. After all, in government propaganda we hear about the fact that courts are the habitat of evil, corruption, corruption. But even if there are such isolated cases, no one has the right to extend this responsibility to all judges. Against this background, the views expressed here yesterday and today by the Minister are extremely welcome. Thank you for the fact that Minister Surówka has cut herself off from this government propaganda, speaking of which, I will quote that the state of the judge is the state of the highest culture, the end of the quote. Thank you very much, Minister. I also respect the credo that you said to Marshal Seweryński, saying that he believes that a large majority of judges retain their independence. Except, ladies and gentlemen, judicial independence isn't just a judge's choice. Jury independence is the duty of every judge. The judge has a duty to be independent in his ruling, and the institutions and procedures have this... [[They're supposed to be supportive.]] ...allow. They're supposed to protect him from himself if he ever wanted to stop being independent for some reason. Yes, I believe in institutions and procedures, despite the often painful experience of the fact that institutions and procedures are not entirely capable of changing bad habits. I have experience in this field. But without faith in the institutions and procedures we would be there, in the East, not here, in the west of Europe, because the whole West is built on respect for institutions and procedures. I repeat: respect for institutions and procedures. The U.S. state judge is able to undermine the United States President's decree, and the President of the United States will not think about tweeting at the very least to undermine the importance of this court and that judge, because it cannot come to his mind if he respects the institutions and procedures. If we want Poland to remain in the circle of Western values of civilization, we need to care for institutions and procedures, and if they are not always operational, then change them within some framework. And this framework is defined by the constitution. That is why there is a constitution to define a framework for changing institutions and procedures. And if the constitution doesn't like it, then there are certain conditions that need to be met to change it. It can be changed, but not by an assassination of the constitution, not by a constitutional leap, but by a constitutional amendment procedure enshrined in the Constitution, because it is. Why do I think this surgery we're talking about is gonna work, but the patient's gonna die? Because in this particular law We've already told you about the KRS bill. There are at least 3 elements which are non-constitutional. I listened attentively to what Minister Mucha was talking about. I do not agree with his opinion, I believe that the shortening of the six-year term of office of the first Supreme Court President, as enshrined in the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 Constitutions, the ordinary law is unconstitutional. Secondly, I believe that the lowering of the retirement age of the other judges, which is to cause a purge in the Supreme Court, is a mere legal trick. Thirdly, finally, according to the Constitution, the President has clearly defined powers as regards the appointment of the first President and the Presidents of the Supreme Court, but that does not mean that the President may arbitraryly leave the judge whom he wishes to leave. This is nothing more than interference of political power in the justice system. This is nothing more than undermining the principle of three divisions of power. And we're used to it. We've grown into the principle of three divisions of power for decades. I deeply regret that the work of the four days we have spent in this room, because the fourth day we are sitting here, is not as effective as our discussion should be. I have the impression that constitutional defenders, defenders of the rule of law, those who want to change justice for the better. We're one of those, I'm talking about the opposition. Not to kill the patient, they will still remain a minority and that the state, the majority, will decide as if this discussion were not at all. That's what I'm afraid of. If our arguments... we're all politicians here. Some of us are lawyers. If the arguments of opposition to you do not speak, I ask that you read once again the opinion of the lawyers of our Senate legal office on the Supreme Court Act, which is the opinion Okay, I'm gonna stress this. Smashing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u149	You have a voice, Senator Silence. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u150	If I can finish by going back to the litany of complaining about the procedure, I would like to add that the excess of the law, even its inflation, leads to the fact that we often have such absurd situations, that e.g. 3 different procedures are used in criminal proceedings, depending on the date of the indictment. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, as a result of the reform we are undertaking today, it should go with satisfaction to say that this was the announcement from the Minister, from the Minister who represents the President. The reform of procedures. Only then will we come to a situation where the courts will act smoothly, quickly. In the sense of Poles they will be fairer and will not cause such traumatic experiences, which are unfortunately the participation of many people. I'm talking about traumatic experiences, among others. because of the fact that the current procedures prevent the proper settlement of the matter, the determination of the true truth and the coming to a just judgment. On the one hand, there is a need for internal independence of the judge, his internal integrity, on the other hand, external guarantees of this independence are needed, and on the other hand appropriate procedures are needed. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not much to hire the best bricklayer if he has a stale brick and old cement as a building material for the house. This will never result in a good building, even though the best master led the construction. Thank you very much. [[Well, maybe we should give this cement and these bricks first...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. Legislative proposals were submitted in writing by Senators Marek Borowski, Piotr Wach, Jan Rulewski and Bogdan Borusewicz. Would the representatives of the President or the President of the Supreme Court like to take the floor and comment on the proposals put forward? First Chairman. There you go. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, Jesus!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u152	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I just want to make sure, Mr. Marshal, how many minutes do I have? I'll do it. [[Mr. President has been talking for a long time. I'm not setting a limit for you. I hear you agreed on a limit.]] [[As short as possible.]] Okay, I'll try as short as I can, ladies and gentlemen. [[There you go.]] What is most important to me is to stress once again that in my presence today on behalf of the judicial community, I have expressed the concern of this environment to actually improve and repair the judiciary. I didn't do it to say something like that. That's what I called it. Political resistance to the reforms being carried out. I'm as far away from it as possible. And the best proof of that is that even in the case of those institutions whose solutions I considered to be dysfunctional, such an institution is e.g. I did not object to this emergency complaint. Well, in fact, in individual cases, when it comes to what Senator Staroń has said, access to the ius, and not remain in the lex sphere, this complaint might be useful. What's more, I haven't said anything highly critical, but I also consider it an irrational solution about this Disciplinary Chamber. Why? Because disciplinary justice is, was, will and must be. Isn't Division VI enough in the Penalty Chamber, do you have to make a Disciplinary Chamber? If that's what you think, then that's how you decide, I just want to point out that the real problem is something else, for example. limitation of disciplinary proceedings. If you guys were on the move, you'd have my support, yes. Disciplinary offences, in particular disciplinary offences of judges, should, in my humble opinion, be treated more rigorously as regards limitation periods. Because a judge may be required more than even representatives of other public-trust professions. That's what I think. And that's the most important thing I've ever wanted to say in this room. And now, because I was kind of called to the board by two or three people, after a minute... [[Mr President, the main point of your speech should be to respond to the conclusions...]] I see. And you didn't know what they were gonna be like. It's mostly about that attitude. Thank you, Mr. Marshal, for paying attention. Then let me put it another way. However, there were conclusions that the solution shortening the term of office of the first President of the Supreme Court could be defended at constitutional level. I hope that if the legislative process were to proceed in the way that I imagine this legislative process, we could come to a common conclusion, Mr Marshal, that it is not so that the ordinary law must state that the term of office of the first President of the Supreme Court will be 5 years so that it is a law contrary to the Constitution which says that it is 6 years. Then we are dealing with a law that is clearly contrary to the constitution. And it is also about those laws that are created in this way and for this purpose, to excavate this constitution, to bypass it. And that's why I'm saying that it's the wording in the article. 111 introductory provisions and in Article. 12 §1 of the proposed law on the Supreme Court is also a solution contrary to the constitution, only in this other way. And something that's most important; this is the last element that I'm going to move. It's something like a judge and a state, a judge and a nation, a judge and citizens, a judge and a law. Ladies and gentlemen, I have made this clear to Senator Oremski. I fully agree with Senator Oremski's statement. If you read the transcript from today's session, you'll see that there was no difference between us... [[The voice from the hall: Oremski was afraid of political death.]] And as for the accusation that I was infidelly quoting... Mr. Marshal, I know it's kind of outside the plane you were just talking about, but it's very painful for me. Well, I've checked it out, Mr. Senator. I quote very faithfully, with this ending, page one hundred and thirty sejm transcripts, and then I didn't bring up the whole quote, because my speech would have lasted much, much longer. And I've been talking about this whole thing. And that's no matter whether it's a state or a nation. It is another thing to serve a community, whether it be a state community or a community of the nation, and another thing is to present, as unfortunately it is recognised in this transcript, a subjection to the community, a submission to the community. I want to end it, Mr. Marshal, like this. Namely, there was a moment here which inspired me with a certain amount of optimism. Various speeches were given in this Chamber, some of which were applauded by Minister Mucha and Minister Pasek. As a judge, I thought I was not allowed to present my emotional relationship to any of these speeches. However, I am glad that I broke this rule in one of my speeches, I behaved emotionally, and we clapped together, Minister. And I'm glad it was your senator's speech, who represents the majority in the Senate, Senator Szymanski. We applauded Senator Szymanski's speech for reminding him Mr. Senator, thank you so much for this. The merits of the judges during the martial law period. You recalled in this connection, Mr. Senator, that it is not so that the entire judicial people are this legacy of communism. And you have reminded us, Senator, of what is most important, of the fact that, in addition to the internal independence of the judge in which you believe and in which we all believe, there is this external independence, which you also want to take care of and which I ask so much of you. And these laws don't guarantee that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u153	Thank you. [[God-fearing! God-fearing! God-fearing! God-fearing!]] Mr. Senator! I'm calling you into order because it's not a manifestation, it's a speech now. [[You've lost your dignity a long time ago...]] Would you like to... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Wait a minute. Would you like to comment on the legislative proposals that were tabled by the senators during the debate? Because this is the object you can relate to. [[Ombudsman Adam Bodnar: Yes.]] If so, you're welcome. [[Voice from the room: There is a motion for rejection.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u154	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to comment on the legislative proposals because they aim to reject the law or to propose amendments which would reduce the harmfulness of the law. I believe that this type of initiative absolutely deserves support and acceptance. I'd like to use these few minutes. And thank you very much for that. To draw attention to one aspect, which I think may be a specific complement to the debate. I am reminded of the visit to Poland by the UN Special Rapporteur on the independence of the judiciary. It was a special visit because it was a visit from a man who had a high position in the UN hierarchy, but also because it was a visit from a professor who was once a minister of justice in Peru, he took up this function in 2001 after what had happened in Peru. He later served as vice president of the Inter-American Court of Human Rights. Looking at the situation in Poland and later drawing up its report on Poland... His first reflections after his visit were largely based on his own experiences. He pointed to several points, including the fact that what he observed in Peru in the 1990s was a link between several factors. After Fujimori gained control of the congress, there was a campaign of slandering judges, a clear campaign that undermined the credibility of the judiciary, then there was control over the national judicial council, the questioning of the authority of the Constitutional Court of Peru, and finally there was the fact that there were dismissals and dismissals, and the departure of judges, in fact there was a situation of uncertainty about employment. These reforms were initially supported, the public expected the courts to be more effective, to fight corruption, to work well, and Fujimori to enter such a space. But after these reforms, many judges faced very serious individual consequences, there was a process of uncertainty about the law, a period of turmoil, a process of nepotism and even greater corruption than ever before. And only after Fujimori and his associates were caught in corruption in 2000, could a great revolution take place. I would absolutely not like to compare, use simple comparisons in any way, but I would like to look at this problem, which concerns the judiciary in Poland as a whole, as a certain event that started, in my opinion, in November 2015, when the process of dismantleing the independence of the Constitutional Tribunal began. After all, undermining the authority of the judiciary is not a matter of the last two weeks or a few weeks, but of long-term work for many, many months, including the fact that the government has been actively involved in this process, which I regret. All the more reason to thank those words for strengthening the judges and appreciating their great merits and their hard work. I am also talking about pointing out that if there are international opinions on Poland, opinions from the UN Special Rapporteur, the Venice Commission, the OSCE, the bodies of the Council of Europe, they are the result of evaluations, analyses, various historical experiences which have been examined by such bodies. It is not that these organs were formed yesterday and they suddenly started taking care of Poland. They have a tradition of functioning and evaluating the institutions and changes that are happening. And if positions are expressed, they are an expression of concern. Of course, it can be accepted that the opinions of these bodies are not binding, that they are only of a certain nature, which do not have to be taken into account, but let us look at this as an expression of concern for what is happening in our country, in our homeland. We also need to realise that these changes have consequences. They will have consequences for those judges who will be forced to leave the Supreme Court or the Supreme Administrative Court. They will have consequences for you first president of the Supreme Court. They will also have consequences for those citizens who will start living in a state of uncertainty about law and lack, you can say the predictability of the activities of public institutions, whatever they are and whether they would act faster, slower, more effectively or worse. But we also need to remember that. And I would particularly like to emphasise that. That there may not be one clear sanction, but what Senator Silence suggested, or ghost... [[Mr. Ombudsman, the legislative proposals...]] I'm almost done. Last sentence. [[Conclusions.]] A spectrum of lost cases before the Court of Human Rights, the Court of Justice of the European Union or the non-recognition of judgments by the courts of other countries That's what's important. And I will refer to these legislative proposals. I stress: I believe that the law in this form should not be adopted. The justice system needs to be changed, but this isn't the way. I'm afraid that if this bill is passed, there will be no way back because the legal backbone of the judiciary will be broken. There are specialists who can fix their spines, but we all know how hard it is, how lucky it is and how long it can take. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u155	Thank you. Would the President's representative like to comment on the legislative proposals? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to respond to the motion to reject the bill that fell here. I point out that the justice system in Poland needs to be reformed, it needs to be repaired, and it is impossible to agree with the assertion which would be based on the assumption that we are dealing with some ideal order, ideal condition of things, and therefore any derogations or any changes that are proposed could disrupt this ideal state of affairs; that it is so that a perfectly functioning mechanism of justice now, as a result of the initiative of the President of the Republic of Poland, will be denied, his spine will be broken because we will have a service to the Republic of Poland. As regards the service in one sentence, I point out that the rota of the oath which they take today at the appointment of the Supreme Court judges begins with: "I pledge solemnly as a judge of the Supreme Court to serve faithfully the Republic of Poland. That's the first thing a judge swears. Duty of Service and Faithfulness I don't see any negative connotations in it. It is also expressed in the provision of Article. 82 constitutions. If we serve, we must answer who we serve, what we serve, and on what basis. And here both the provision of the article. 1 the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, Rzeczpospolita Poland is the common good of all citizens; and art. 2, Rzeczpospolita Poland is a democratic legal state that implements the principles of social justice... Finally, today there were also arguments referring to the definition of law. The first definition of law, the Roman one we know and present in our culture, is the one that Celsus formulated: ius est ars boni et aequi. That is, the law is the art of applying what is right and right. And this is included in the submission of the President of the Republic of Poland. It is an expression of reflection that courts are not for courts, courts are not for judges, courts are not for the very establishment of certain institutions. Courts are supposed to serve justice. And the assessment of justice this is the assessment which is formulated by the society, which is formulated by the citizens of the Republic of Poland. And all such legal solutions, which are designed to improve the recognition of cases in courts, are desirable and are needed. And from this perspective, I am fully convinced that, as part of this service, which, after all, the state in the Senate, is performing, leaning on these projects and on this law on the Supreme Court, it is necessary to pay attention to the fact that, above all, it is the result of genuine social demand, and it is the social demand which the Poles expressed. Now that we're referring to symbolism here, I'm going to say that I see a certain symbolism of December dates too. I had the privilege 3 years ago to manifest with thousands of Poles in defence of democracy, in order to strengthen the institutions of the state. Several tens of thousands of people walked in such a manifestation on 13 December, and a year later Law and Justice won the election. First the election was won by President Andrzej Duda, who declared in the presidential campaign that there would be a reform of the justice system. Law and Justice won elections to the Sejm and to the Senate also with a declaration of judicial recovery, judicial reform. [[But don't break the constitution.]] These aren't postulates... [[Don't break the constitution!]] These aren't postulates that were born... [[But what are we talking about?]] [[Quiet, please!]] [[This House deserves respect.]] [[I thought you said you'd respond to the amendments.]] [[What's the pain?]] [[Let us be heard by the Minister. Senator, don't raise your voice and don't break the rules. We talked, the Minister listened. Now let's hear it.]] [[You can't listen to that.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there have been many voices here today about the fact that there is no basis for any change. There were people who talked about the unconstitutionality of the laws and the fact that they were in great danger. These people argued that the bill had been rejected. I draw attention to the fact that we have a strong democratic legitimacy to make such changes, that it is the will of the Polish society, which is confirmed by social studies. We are talking about concrete legal solutions that will serve people. In particular, I would like to draw attention to something that has been included in numerous speeches. The three aspects of the law which were criticised here, discussed and which were, as it were, an argument for rejecting the law, convince me that the law is needed. In order. Juries in the Supreme Court. It is impossible to assume that the presence of jurors in the Supreme Court will result in a deterioration in the issue of justice. This will first of all restore confidence in the justice system, because the jury is to choose the Senate of the Republic of Poland. Juries are to be an essential element in the exercise of justice in the recognition of an emergency complaint and disciplinary matters. For both of these dimensions there is a need of this kind. It is impossible to agree with the argument expressed here with a certain degree of superiority that a person who has a secondary education cannot bring anything new into the process of ruling that he cannot translate his knowledge and his life experience into a disciplinary case or an emergency complaint case. What's the emergency complaint about? That's what Celsus meant. To keep the rule of law and social justice. That is also the point of the article. 2 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Who's gonna judge all this? Such arguments cannot be used. I admit it's an honor for me to do my profession as a lawyer, that I'm listed as a non-professional lawyer, but I wouldn't assume that only lawyers are supposed to constitute a right, just as I don't take the assumption that a juror is redundant in the process of judging the facts, in assessing the disciplinary liability of judges, or when it is necessary to make some assessment in terms of criteria such as social justice and the rule of law. That's why I urge your senators to support the jury record at the Supreme Court. The public expectation is that the jury sits there. This is a reconstruction of the justice system. Now that we're talking about an emergency complaint, I'd like you to pay attention... From a constitutional point of view, it was perfectly justified by Minister Anna Surówka-Pasek, but we did not invent this thing at the President's Office. This has been a request for many years in doctrine, in law science, in the voices of representatives of numerous associations victimized by the justice system. They did not speak here today, but there are thousands of such people in Poland. That's what Senator Staroń was talking about, and that's what other people of yours were talking about in the course of their speeches. Note the fact that the negative assessment of justice did not come out of nowhere. There are many cases for which the individual justice system takes responsibility today. As regards an emergency complaint, the conditions are well-defined: infringement of the principles or freedoms expressed in the Constitution, gross violation of the law by its misinterpretation or incorrect application and, finally, this condition of obvious contradiction between the material collected and the judicial decision. And it cannot be justified that this is harmful from the point of view of one public institution or another. I also find it hard to believe that an emergency complaint will undermine legal certainty. If we were to reason that way, we would have to delete the rules on all extraordinary remedies. An emergency complaint is needed today in order to restore confidence in the reform of justice so that we can remove obvious judicial errors, evident judicial errors or decisions which are the result of various errors or conditions. And we all know that these things happen because no environment is ideal. As far as the Disciplinar Chamber is concerned, it is clear to me that I am radical about these views, reflecting what is also the intention of the President That this reform weighs constitutional values, but where we talk about this enormous power, it has always been so. If you are referring today to the Constitution on 3 May, if you are referring to various legal conditions and to the Polish legal culture, you will already consider the common good, which is expressed in the article. 1, keeping in mind the realization of the principles of social justice... If you reach the Constitution on 3 May or the Constitution on March, you will see how it is in there as regards the judicial authority: and it should be so attached to places that every person close to himself finds justice, so that the criminal can see everywhere the dangerous hand of the national government. Notice how this authority was defined there. This authority was defined there in this way: We therefore establish the courts of first instance for each voivodeship, land and district to which the judges will be elected in the Seyms. Notice this distinction. The judge has a great power to settle individual cases, whether in a civil trial he judges, dismisses the action, or convicts or acquits in a criminal trial. No one denies this authority, but in order for us to say that this authority has full legitimacy, it must come from our belief that it is the judge who is independent, but that does not mean that it is a judge who is a free judge. I do not understand the request of free courts in the sense that it is to be free courts. What's that supposed to mean? So we're gonna put in a free government, a free president? We have the principle of legalism, public authorities operate on the basis and within the limits of the law, and serve those values I have spoken of, social justice and public welfare. [[...Pressure.]] If you're all... [[Talking in the O.R.]] If you look at the proposal of the President of the Republic, you will find four pillars there. One is a solution in the area of justice correcting the case law of the courts and this is an emergency complaint. That's what citizens want. That's why I'm asking the senators... I listened to your voices, and some of those voices were very critical. I respect all your comments, I understand that they are caused by concern for the public good. In any event, the foundation of this reform is precisely justice that corrects the case law of the courts. This is not the conviction and assumption of bad faith, that which was repeatedly declared here, when it was pointed out what the negative consequences of adopting this reform would be. To be honest, I regretted listening to the voices of such a very political person, that the President of the Republic of Poland presents a bill or a bill to harm citizens. I negate and reject it. It's not about the truth. I understand the political rhetoric of those who have been removed from power in democratic elections, but I do not accept this argument. The second thing, which is the pillar of our proposal, are solutions to increase the effectiveness of disciplinary proceedings against judges and other legal professions, and to evaluate them for non-professionals. It is clear to me that if a given professional environment becomes a closed, hermetic environment, it is natural to create certain irregularities there. If it is that it is an elite group, an association, anyone who may have one or another view, it can be said that better or worse, but the law can always interfere. Meanwhile, here it has to be crystal, it has to be transparent. And there is no doubt to me that this social factor is needed here. You say we don't agree to the Disciplinar Chamber. You said here that the bill should be called the Supreme Court and the Disciplinary Chamber. Of course it is important, of course, that the reconstruction of the structure of the Supreme Court due to the new competences and changes in the status of Supreme Court judges are justified. If you're asking about interference in the Supreme Court's personnel resources... Well, I have that knowledge. Without insulting those judges who have exemplary résumés, all those who have great merits for the Republic of Poland, and without denying the enormous potential of this work, let us be honest: in the Supreme Court after a certain reflection in the early 1990s, we have 15 judges who are former members of the Polish United Workers' Party, and among those 15 members of the Polish United Workers' Party we have this kind of person... [[Here we go, here we go. Look at this.]] [[Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz turns the card with the caricature of Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz towards the speaker]] ...whose card is very negative, the ones that deserved the regime of Wojciech Jaruzelski... [[Exactly.]] [[Senator Jarosław Duda turns the card with the caricature of Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz towards the speaker]] [[Exactly.]] [[Senators Barbara Zdrojewska and Mieczysław Augustyn turn the card with the caricature of Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz towards the speaker]] ...by presenting certain information to this regime. As for these people, there is no reflection, I do not see this reflection today, but I see the defence of the environment. I'll say this: there's a Latin saying nemo iudex isoneus in propria causa, nobody should be a judge in their own case. I'm sorry to hear that. Contrary to what outstanding judicial authorities say, to which I have great respect Unfortunately, the judge's environment did not manage to do so. This group solidarity, solidarity of self-thinking in many cases has overcome the public interest. The President of the Republic of Poland presents these laws in the public interest, therefore I absolutely deny the motion to reject this law. We will lean on the amendments that will be tabled tomorrow to improve them. We will refer to this at the committee meeting when the Legislative Bureau presents this to us. I would like to tell you that these laws are in the public interest. Therefore, I ask your senators to adopt the Supreme Court Act as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u157	As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held in the voting block. We proceed with the third item on the agenda: the Trade Reduction Act on Sundays and holidays and on some other days. The text of the Act is contained in print No 668 and the committee's report in print No 668 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Andrzej Stanisławek, to present a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. and Mrs. Senators, please remain silent because the senator is reporting. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. and Mrs. Senators, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Joint Committees The Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy With a minority request concerning... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. and Mrs. Senators, please transfer your congratulations to the lobby. Congratulations in the lobby. Now we listen to the rapporteur. There you go.]] ...laws on restricting trade on Sundays and holidays and on some other days. The aim of the Act is to limit trade on Sundays, holidays and some other days. Trade will be possible on the first and last Sunday of the month starting on 1 March 2018, as this is the expected date of entry into force of this law. There's a lot of shut-downs here. If that's what you're interested in... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I repeat my request. Senators and Invited Guests, please move your calls to the lobby. Thank you.]] ...I will briefly present these exemptions and the numerous amendments that have been tabled. There was a rather long discussion from which I remembered the strong position of senators who believe that if we ban trade on Sunday, it should apply to all Sundays, without excluding these on average two Sundays a month. There was also a motion from the senators to reject the bill. Finally, we adopted this law with a very large number of amendments. I will try to present these amendments to you, but I will give you exemptions first. Where does that ban not apply? In liquid fuel stations. Senator Rooster's amendment is that food or, say, not the main pillar of the station's operation cannot be carried out on a surface of more than 80 m2. Next: in florists, if the sale of flowers is a dominant activity In florists you can also sell something else, but the main element must be flowers in pharmacies and pharmacies; in animal medicinal establishments; in commercial establishments where the predominant activity consists of trade in souvenirs or devorities; in commercial establishments whose principal activity consists of trade in newspapers, public transport tickets, tobacco products, tickets for games of chance and betting; in post offices within the meaning of the Act of 23 November 2012 Here, too, is Senator Rooster's amendment that this sales exposure cannot be more than 80m2. In commercial facilities at airports; in free zones; in public transport... There's an amendment here too. I'll give it to you so you know it too. It's about the ships... Yeah, it's inland shipping. In ships and constructions, drilling platforms, aircraft, commercial vessels; in penitentiary units; in garrisons; in online shops and online platforms; in pharmaceutical wholesalers; in commercial establishments trading exclusively agricultural machinery and spare parts for these machines from 1 June to 30 September; in the case of trade in flowers, bindings, wreaths and cemeteries... [[It's already been...]] [[Voices from the room: It was.]] There was a flower trade, and here it is at the cemeteries. The ban shall not apply to funeral establishments, commercial establishments where trade is carried out by an entrepreneur who is a natural person solely on his own behalf and on his own account, in bakeries, confectionery and ice cream shops... Wait a minute. [[What about the kebabs?]] In kebabs, too. ...also other than bakery products in any proportion. This prohibition will not apply to those establishments whose dominant activity consists in the trade in bakery, confectionery and not in any commercial establishment, which will be called a bakery, pastry shop or ice cream shop. Nor will the ban apply to agri-food wholesale markets operated by companies governed by commercial law, whose dominant activity consists in renting, managing real estate for wholesale and agri-food trade, in commercial establishments operated by traders purchasing goods on agri-food wholesale markets. There's also an amendment on fish. So you can buy it... Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen... Oh, there it is. He's going to fill in... [[Fish trafficking.]] Yeah, but this is... It is about first selling centres for fish, fishing farms, reception facilities for fishery and aquaculture products, as well as trade in these products because the object of the sale, known, is spoiling easily. What are the further exemptions? That's pretty much everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u159	Thank you, Senator. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u160	Mr. Marshal, as a minority of committees, we have pointed out very many shortcomings in this submission. The first reservation is absolutely fundamental, i.e. we do not think that we should by administrative means try to shape the purchasing customs and any other customs of Poles. Poles don't want it, all the research shows it. Although they are solidarity with market workers, they want to be free when they shop. We believe that this is a misconception, because it does not achieve the goal it refers to. The aim is to protect workers so that they are free on Sunday, but it is done in a way that is against the aspirations of most Poles, rather than in a way that was proposed by opposition groups, the Civic and Modern Platform, in the Seym, to meet the expectations of workers to be free. That can be done, that can be done by appropriate changes to the labour code. You put a different argument here on a case that serves something else, and it needs to be revealed. We say: this is not the way, this is about preventing Poles from shopping on Sunday. But the case turns out to be very complicated, to the point that this bill was being created until the last minute, not to say, on your knees. If you look at what happened at the committee meeting, it's really... Well, there were mutually exclusive applications, a whole mass of them, at the moment there are almost 30 exemptions, there will be another dozen. It's impossible to fit into reality. Everyone pointed out that this objective, which is to prevent trade, is actually virtually impossible to achieve. And there are a lot of ways that this was pointed out in the committee's discussion. It's for the handling of it. This has been tried to seal; in some cases it may be possible, mostly not. What's causing this? Well, it doesn't just make it impossible for employees to work on Sundays... After all, let us remind you that in Poland there are probably 350,000 commercial establishments, and under the law there are only 30,000 Not even close. The rest of you will be working. And don't tell me we're gonna write down here that the owners are gonna work and they're gonna work. I really don't. And no one's gonna be able to find out. So it's an unrealistic goal, unattainable goal, and it's undermining conditions of equal competition. Well, every now and then somebody comes forward and says that we forbid him from working on his business. This is where you said Senator Chairman... because it's all from these reports: I have a fish farm, but I have a restaurant, and besides, I have a sale, and now I can sell, I can't sell, and so on. I, too, will also make a request for further exclusion in the debate, because of direct sales, which was in fact in the original proposal, Solidarity, was forgotten and finally deleted, which I consider to be a serious mistake. So that this law, which is against civil liberties, is against social justice in the sense that some will stand out in the same industry, others will not. Against equal competition, because some companies will be able to trade, others will not. Against the aspirations of the citizens who oppose this law. And against the grounds. Because this bill doesn't guarantee what it says it wants to guarantee, and the state doesn't want it to be guaranteed properly. So we cannot agree that such an underdeveloped bill, which is an example of a legislative bubble, should be adopted by the Senate. We'll all be ashamed of it. The Hungarians did something like this recently, but they had to get out of it. And I misread this law, and we will have to withdraw from it because no one will be happy with it. This will not bring you anything good, I am talking about the Polish country. You, as a group that pushes it, will not do you any good either. I appeal on behalf of the minority: well, let's not do such things and let's not force something that doesn't defend itself in any way and in any way. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u161	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? Senator Dowhan. There you go. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] Tell me who you're asking the question to.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u162	Senator Stanisławek... Oh, it's working. I'm sorry. Dear rapporteur, you have mentioned many traders who are exempt, I have not had time to write them all down: fuel stations, florists, trade in souvenirs, press, tickets, post office, hotels, culture, stations, communication, etc. Can't you just say, "What's to be closed?" Perhaps the opposite can be said: what is to be closed. And then maybe it'll be easier to understand the bill. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u163	If it were that easy, we wouldn't lean on it at all. Ask him... You have Senator Augustine in front of you. Can he answer that question? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the hall: It's a question for the government.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u164	Is the senator finished, or does he want to keep asking? [[No, no. I want to ask.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u165	Now that you mention it... [[They were so...]] Mr. Senator, I can be a layman. It seems to me that if you've mentioned everything that might be open, then why debate the bill when everything is to be open?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u166	There was an offer that there should be no trade. It was also my suggestion that the petrol stations should be closed, as in Norway. So that there were various proposals. We can shut everything down. Well, we can close it. [[Voice from the room: Let's be consistent. Or...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u167	Wait a minute! [[Yeah, something like that...]] Mr. Senator, one at a time. [[There were voices like that, too.]] [[Klein's friend...]] You're asking Senator Florek a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u168	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm also here to see the Senator rapporteur. I agree that, of course, this is a very difficult and very complicated bill. I'm sure it could be easier... I'll talk about it later, too. On the labour code and, if necessary, how it could be done. And that's the first question. Since this project, which, of course, has been substantially changed because it was in the Seym, initially, different... Right now, we're supposed to have two commercial Sundays a month. Senator rapporteur, 2 Sundays. That's one day a week. That's 14%. Because we have seven days a week and one day we don't work. That's 14%. If there are 2 Sundays working Let's split it in half. That's 7%. So it turns out that 7% ... [[Mr. Senator, question.]] I'm almost done. That's what I'm getting at. As a result, 7% employees will lose their jobs. It is clear, and there is no doubt that it will. Did you talk about it? Has such an analysis been carried out, how many people will lose their jobs as a result of this bill? Thank you. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u169	I mean, there are very different opinions. It was the opinion of the legislative initiative committee that there would be no losses in terms of reducing employment. There are also opinions that on Sundays in large shopping malls 80% The employees are students. We can only regret the fact that they may not be able to make money on Sundays. But given the opinions on trade in other countries where stores don't work on Sundays and are longer open... [[Fridays.]] Fridays and Saturdays, I think. So that the number of working hours... Of course, we also wondered whether this would affect the reduction in government income. Right? There was a proposal from Senator Rulewski to report to the Ministry after a year on the consequences of this bill, but Minister Swed said that there were no tools. How would he answer the question of whether this bill is good or bad? This was therefore not accepted.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u170	You're asking Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u171	Mr. Senator, a little bit following this lead as Senator Robert Dowhan... The law is created in accordance with the principle that it is universally applicable. Specialists estimate that this law tightening trade on Sundays will cover 10% commercial establishments. What's the bill for? After all, it's a lie that this is a law that tightens up trade, since 90% the addressees will not be covered. And then there's the second question. What's... I don't understand this idea. You want us to ban trade on Sundays? Why trade? And why, e.g. You're not driving a cab? Why not go to the theatres? [[A voice from the room: Or to the toilet!]] Or the bathroom? [[Joy in the Chamber]] Or on buses? [[Voice from the hall: To the church.]] Going to the lunaparks? In what ways is trade worse than other sectors of the economy, so that trade is somehow hostile on days off and other departments can then work?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u172	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u173	I understand the senator's confusion because I have a little bit of the same. Well, the whole health care department was working and working, the communications industry is working... I'll go back to Senator Flork's question. Of course, there's a possibility that some of the people in the trade will go to the service. 'Cause if someone who's used to going to a gallery doesn't go to a restaurant or restaurants... [[In restaurants...]] ...they'll have to be active longer, maybe there'll have to be more of these restaurants Well, nature doesn't like vacuum. So that in the end, it may turn out that on Sundays, as many people as they worked, only in others... [[Industries.]] ...branches.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u174	You're asking Senator Duda a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Professor, Senator rapporteur, we have led together, you have held a joint committee meeting, and I have the impression that what has been proposed by... [[Committee of the legislative initiative.]] ...the committee of the legislative initiative, which resulted in a failure. Those who wanted to gain their effect through this initiative expressed such an opinion during the joint meeting of our committees that there was little left. But that's not what I wanted... I would like to thank you, first of all, for the very professional reporting of the proceedings of the joint committees. [[Thank you.]] Senator rapporteur, I would like to ask if, in such a situation, when, on the citizens' initiative, from what was built, nothing was left. This was also discussed during the meetings of the 2 committees. It is worth to crush copies of a decision that absolutely does not take into account all the intentions that were initially in this project. During our joint meeting, I asked those initiators to do it, since it's a fiasco. At least I'm fully convinced about it. They've withdrawn their proposal, and then we'd start wondering how we'd build in the freedom system... And now I'd like to ask my question. Wouldn't it be enough to change the labour code that would lead to, for example. Sunday rates were higher: 250%, 300% a day's wages for those who want to work? And that wouldn't destroy the home and family mire, because that usually applies to young people, students who just want to make money. All the more so because we know very well that the trade networks will circumvent this law, as announced by the largest commercial networks in Poland. [[They won't.]] Wouldn't it be worth going back to that? And that's my first question. If you don't mind, I'll ask later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u176	Mr Senator, Mr President, I think the answer to this question is in the media, because both bishops spoke about it and the trade union spoke about it. The point is that as Senator Rooster here tells you to holy day and not to spend it... [[Don't you know the Decalogue?]] ...and not to spend that day in shopping malls. That was at the base, wasn't it? There you go... [[It's Senator Rooster who's gonna tell us what to do.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u177	Would the senator like to ask you a second question?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u178	If you don't mind, I'd like to say... Many families I know go to church at 8:00 and they celebrate the holy day, Mr. Senator Rooster. [[Voice from the room: But...]] And the holy day is holy, which follows from the Decalogue, etc. [[But the question, Mr. Senator, is the question.]] [[Voice from the room: 'Cause they don't go to work.]] Let me ask you a question. So I'd like to ask you how this According to what the Senator rapporteur said to me, This storm is expected, according to various also ideological decisions, order... What do you mean, no trade? I don't get it. Because you used that argument, Senator. So I absolutely don't get it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u179	I'm asking for an answer. [[The graduate of the new CUL does not understand the basic things.]] Mr. Senator, please don't speak. The rapporteur shall reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u180	I say what was at the heart of the initiative of the legislative initiative committee, but I am not on this committee, and I am not going to answer a lot of questions to the senator, which I also have. One of the doubts is e.g. It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, 'Cause that's the kind of mail I got on my e-mail. That sellers or owners of franchise are afraid that they are afraid of being forced by the franchisee to work on Sundays. We don't even have a way of dealing with this. That's the problem. [[That's right, there's a problem.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u181	You're asking Senator Grodzki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I was wondering if we should go further and follow our older brothers' example in the faith to introduce the Sabbath... [[I'm in.]] [[What, is shabbat bad?]] ...do nothing one day at all, maybe it would be a solution. But I would like to fire the professor now and ask the senator of the minority rapporteur, because I have a question for him, if I may.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u183	I'm just gonna say, if I may, because it was discussed at the committee meeting... Italy, Austria, Germany and the Scandinavian countries are also a model for this. This is where Senator Kleina claimed that if we shut down, the Scandinavians wouldn't come shopping on Sunday... So that all aspects were discussed, really, the committee's meetings lasted twice, I think, two and a half hours. [[Longer.]] [[More.]] [[The Germans aren't coming.]] Longer, right? [[Then the Germans won't come...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u184	Senator of the minority rapporteur, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u185	If you don't mind, the question... You haven't mentioned the professor of Germans yet, and for border regions, this is a huge source of income for people. [[He swapped, he talked.]] But that's not my question. I have a question for the senator of the minority rapporteur. As I understand it, the intention that led to the solidarity was to relieve the workers. [[Voices from the room: No.]] [[That's how it's officially described.]] We were just talking about the holy day. [[No, that's how it's officially described in the explanatory memorandum.]] Tell me, Senator... Because it seemed that you could follow a simple code path and so modify the work code so that people, if working on Sunday, would have another day off to make overtime, raises, bonuses, etc... There's plenty of ideas. Tell me if there were any other arguments besides the argument already given, to shine the holy day, to follow that path that would really ease the workers. Because, as Professor Stanisławek said here, there is a fear that no one will actually benefit from this bill, because if this person goes out of business, he will go to service and further as he worked on Sundays, so he will work. Tell me what arguments were made not to follow that path that seemed logical, consistent and consistent to the intentions of the inventors.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u186	Well, unfortunately, in the committees Only we as a minority raised this issue because this is the procedure, the legislative initiative, the citizens' initiative is being followed around this submission. But indeed, the authors of this law and their representatives at the committee's meeting continued to emphasize that it was about workers. The arguments raised were not specifically taken into account that, in fact, if it had any effect, it would be on a small scale in trade itself, and it would also generate jobs on Sundays in other industries, without giving the result that was sought here. That is why I have allowed myself, Mr. Senator, here to say that as a minority we have interpreted this stubbornness in such a way that it is something completely different. And I think that this is just where what it was really all about, I think, both the projecters and the senators who were in favour of this submission, were written down.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u187	You're asking Senator Komarnicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u188	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to address the Professor, the Senator of the rapporteur. [[There you go.]] I'm sorry I wasn't at the committee meeting, but I was sick, and that's why I'm asking... Because it would be weird if I was at a committee meeting asking the same questions. On Sundays and weekends, he makes a lot of young people. Among them are mostly those who study, but especially those whose families cannot afford to keep them. They are also paid by people who have to take care of the elderly and the disabled during the week. What about them? Because the proposed law simply prohibits work. I'm afraid they're not going away. I am particularly concerned about the German border. I'm gonna make some extra money over there. That's my first question. And the other. I'd like to ask you why the applicants won't agree to this. I believe that it is logical that the entire process of entering into force of this law should be monitored, so that, after, say, the year of operation of this law, we can see how this solution actually affected the Polish economy and the labour market. I ask you about these issues in the care that we very often chaoticly introduce something that needs to be changed. After all, the Dear House remembers how many times we have amended a law that seemed 100%... And we were all... We just felt really bad about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u189	I'm answering the first question. Those who are from the border area will not be able to go to Germany because in Germany stores will be closed... [[Not really, not really, Professor...]] [[When supermarkets in Germany worked, they imposed such penalties that they didn't recover.]] Of course, I have already said that we have discussed various aspects. I believe that those who want to work will find a job because the labour market in Poland is a market where fewer and fewer people... Now they don't have to look for anything, right now the employer is looking for an employee. Our problem. That's what I'm saying on the margins. There's something completely different. The problem is that 1 million 700 people in the so-called. the working age doesn't want to work. [[But if he doesn't want to, he doesn't want to.]] [[And the answer to the second question, Professor?]] Second question... [[Let me remind you that this was about monitoring after the bill came into force...]] Unfortunately, the Minister replied that there are no tools, does not know how to do it to check whether this law is a good law or not. I think we're gonna take it as the Senate. [[Thank you very much.]] [[Everyone will answer...]] [[It's worth going back to that amendment and voting it out.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u190	Senator Grzegorz Pekkis. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u191	If you don't mind, I have a question for the Professor, the Senator of the rapporteur. Professor, I have been present at both committee meetings, as have some of the Members of the opposition who are now asking questions... [[Senators.]] Excuse me. I'm so sorry. Some of them were on the bureau. And having told the truth, I absolutely did not hear the questions that were asked about and in relation to which the answers were given. And I have such a negative impression that there is such an exchange of thoughts about this twisted bill... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...and this communication has little to do with what happened at the committee meeting. In other words, it is simply such a festival of telling about certain countries' problems which concern this law. [[We're asking you a question.]] Professor, in this connection, my question is: was there any mention of the smaller brothers at the committee meeting... Was there a difference between a taxi driver and a trader at the committee meeting? Was there any mention at the committee meeting of young people who would go abroad because they wouldn't be working in trade on Sunday?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u192	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u193	Thank you very much, Senator. [[You have seven questions.]] Yes. I just wanted to stress that Senator Pekkis was not satisfied with these numerous exemptions either, because, as he claimed, it would make legislation and compliance very difficult... On the other hand, the committee focused more on the procedure of the law and on the points of the law which would be acceptable to trade, because there were very many social representatives at the meeting. Well, we've been trying to work out the bill that came from the Sejm, so that it can be processed in the Senate and that the least possible damage can be suffered by both citizens and trade.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u194	Thank you very much. Senator Robert Dowhan. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u195	Thank you. Professor, at first, when you said that bishops, that the holy day to celebrate... you made me laugh a little bit, because I thought that in a secular state we would proceed over what is secular and what is good for people. And here it's not exactly like that. And ad vocem of what you said, that everywhere in Western countries or almost everywhere the facilities are closed, I will say that I invite you to Berlin to the street of Ku-damm Strasse, for example to the great building of KaDeWe, or to Peek and Cloppenburg, you will see if they are really closed, because perhaps you do not have the knowledge about it. I, going to the questions, want to quote the text I got. I got one from my son, but I'm going to quote him later, a student's son, who, along with a group of his colleagues, just wrote me what he thought of this idea of yours. But in connection with these numerous inclusions you wrote to me with several tire shops, accessories for cars that are on the main routes. Will he be able to keep these stores open? 'Cause on Sundays, sometimes motorists get gum, cops stop a light bulb from burning, somebody gets screwed up. Or will he have to close it on Sundays, and will it result in those who will be grounded on the road, or will you be pleased that you are the authors of this success? [[Mr. Senator...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u196	Thank you very much. Professor, wait a minute. [[Excuse me.]] I'll ask you to ask Senator Piotr Flork for a question, and then I'll ask you for an answer. [[Why? I've been checking in for an hour.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Oh, thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal.]] The marshal, too? [[I'm saved.]] [[What do you prefer, Mr. Secretary?]] [[Calm down, buddy.]] Mr. Senator, it's... [[What's up?]] [[You volunteered, you are.]] Mr. Senator, you're in. You're welcome, Mr. Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u197	Good. I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur, too. [[I've been checking in for an hour now.]] Mr. Senator, you were quoting this list of switches, a very long one, I have it in front of me. And I'm going to start with, for example, the first position, and that's also going to be the question: the ban in question doesn't apply to liquid fuel stations. Now let me give you an example. I was driving a car from Poznań to Warsaw for our meeting and I noticed at one of the petrol stations a building in a rough state, certainly having several hundred square meters, it was difficult for me to assess how long, wide, but certainly several hundred square meters it was. I didn't just see the connection to the station, maybe it wasn't, but it might be. And I immediately realized what it was about, when I looked at it: it's probably just that there's going to be a shop at this station. Now, here's the question. Because I hear Senator Rooster has tabled an amendment, which is probably the right thing to do, but it should probably be in every position. I can quote in a moment and we'll have to make further adjustments. So this store doesn't have more than 80 m2. Well, this investor is gonna be upset right now, because there's a shop a few hundred yards that's already built, because he knew what it looked like before, and now you, Mr. Senator, are gonna complicate his life a little bit. [[Mr. Senator, question.]] So the obvious question is, did you just talk about it? But I hear you're Senator Rooster. He's already mentioned it. Was there possibly a discussion on this subject and was such a proposal made, and if it was made, then, I understand, it has a chance to find our support? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u198	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u199	Mr. Senator Dowhan, this is a trade restriction law, not a service. [[Yes.]] [[Every employee...]] This does not apply to services. [[Never mind.]] [[But that's the sale.]] [[I mean, the store's selling.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm saying it's about trade. If he's gonna replace that broken tire, he can do it. [[But how do you name it, not sell it?]] But why would anyone want a tire on the road? [[The ban doesn't apply to stations and it's in volcanization.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] That's when you call the road service. [[If you can't Vulcanize, you sell a tire.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] It can be sold with service, there will definitely be some bypasses. Yeah, he's gonna sell a tire with a service. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Let's make a note of that.]] [[Good. And Mr. Flork's questions.]] Yes. Senator Florek, there was a discussion about sales and trade at petrol stations, hence the amendment of Senator Rooster to limit to 80 m2. [[Good. Thank you...]] Oh, I'm sorry, Mrs. Marshal, I'm still here to see Senator Dowhan... In Germany... Because you set an example for Berlin. In Germany, each land has the right to lay down its exemptions to trade. [[Greece.]] And for example. There's no trade in Bavaria, it could be in other lands. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] It's the government that's setting it up. [[In Greece, it is.]] [[We would like each voivodship to be decided, the seymikas of the voivodship.]] There's been a suggestion. [[They didn't get the support of the majority.]] [[Okay...]] To apologize, Mrs. Marshal, e.g. Voivodeship as a representative of the state in the voivodship... Yes? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[No, voivodship local government, sejmik voivodship.]] Please make such an amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u200	Good. Senator Jarosław Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u201	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question. So that the Senator rapporteur can get some rest. To the senator of the minority rapporteur. Mr. Senator Augustine... [[Talking in the O.R.]] May I have this? Well, Mr Senator, you spoke in your speech about what is quite significant, what we talked about and what we raised at the joint committee meeting when it comes to the so-called. Hungarian kazus. You talked about this and I also argued that Hungarians, who are somehow close to us in various solutions, especially in the last two years, introduced such a trade ban in 2015, and then withdrew after a year because they felt that this was absolutely detrimental to the economic life process and not only. Then I'd like to ask you if you have any knowledge, Senator. 'Cause you probably have it. After this was introduced, there was a sharp increase in the turnover of online food stores. And what do you think? 'Cause I'm pretty sure it's gonna be passed and voted out by the majority. How long will this last in Poland? Because, in my opinion, this kind of solution is unacceptable from the point of view of ordinary economic turnover. And one more question. Do you have any knowledge? 'Cause we talked about it. That what some raise, namely that it breaks down the unity of the Polish family... Isn't it just Sundays that students work, who just want to make money to pay for the station, the apartment, etc.? How's that look in your assessment? As far as I'm concerned, aren't there a lot of situations in which mothers or fathers function, so to speak, in these Sunday climates of commerce? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u202	Thank you very much. Senator Aleksander Pociej. Do you have a question for Senator Augustine? Then ask me right away. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u203	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'd like to know if there was any discussion at the committee's meeting about the possible differentiation of this trade ban on Sunday? What do I mean by that? Let me explain. Well, it is written here rigidly that the first and last Sunday. Afraid that... it might happen that if everyone who's ever gone to these shopping malls goes to church, there might not be enough room. Wasn't there such a reflection that it could actually be determined that each such institution, e.g. in Warsaw, declares that it has 2 Sundays and declares which Sundays are free from trade? What good would that do? This would make it possible, however, for a citizen to choose between these institutions and this would not completely exclude the services provided by these institutions in such an absolute way. Was that even the subject of reflection?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u204	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator. [[Can I have another one?]] Of course, I'm sorry, I'll remember.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u205	To answer Mr Duda's questions, I would like to say yes: yes, the Hungarian example was discussed at the committee meeting, and it was quoted that political considerations had decided this. It should be read so that social dissatisfaction was so great that it simply withdrew. And today you can say that I think we are going to the wall because research shows that Poles do not want this restriction. We're doing this, probably trying to cause a social uproar, and we're probably gonna have to back off, too, I guess. Anyway, we warned you that this might be the case. Indeed, in Hungary, trade has moved to online shops. In item 19 of the project, in inclusions, there are listed online shops and online platforms, so we give this opportunity to us, and it will probably be so that Internet commerce will flourish and, as the Senator President said here, it will be treated as a service in total. We're gonna see thousands of people on motorbikes, cars, and so on, driving around our cities, carrying goods, working on Sundays, and not working on Sundays. This is likely to result in the fact that instead of some who will not work, others will work, perhaps even harder and more intensely. When it comes to breaking up families, yes, it was also discussed. I was just saying that my experience with a few Sunday visits to the market is this: I'm amazed at the number of families that show up there. With little kids. These are expeditions to my city, which is the center of the subregion, from all over the subregion, I see it by the license numbers. Why? 'Cause, of course, today at the mall. And the representatives of the shops, the big shops, picked it up. There's also a cinema, there's also a restaurant, there's also a pharmacy, there's also clothing shops where you have to think about it, you have to try on... That takes time. It's not like you're stopping by for a little while on Sunday. Finally, it is possible that a husband can be with his wife, a wife with her husband, together with her children, and I see them sometimes. So I don't know. , whether to open these shops Today it favours the integration of families or disturbs them, but I assure you I'm sure you know that better than I do. That's how it is and many families are looking for time to integrate right there. Kids go to the playground that's there, and their parents go, I don't know, buy electronics or try something out of their clothes, and then they go to a movie together for some family movie. Market representatives signaled that these other services, if available, would certainly be much more expensive, because you would have to open these markets for the restaurants themselves, for the bars themselves, for the cinemas themselves, for the other shopping and service points that are there. But of course, for it to earn protection, opening, closing, etc., etc. I'm sure the rent's gonna go up. The customers will pay for it, which means these families will pay, because who? Now, about Senator Pociej's question... No, that wasn't an offer. It seems to me to be an interesting proposition. Maybe it's because this bill is really a set-up scenario for the definitive ban on opening shops, so I guess the designers didn't bother with something like that, because next year it's going to be even less, and then it's not going to be at all, so why bring some rotation in here? I think... But I suppose that's because it wasn't an offer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u206	Thank you very much. Senator Stanisław Rooster. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u207	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Yes, Mr. Senator Duda, I am Catholic and I believe that all Sundays should be free. It is clear that the holy day must be sanctified. [[Talking in the O.R.]] But let's get to the questions. Question one. Did you read the bill well? [[I think it is, and it's more than once.]] I don't think so, because it's clear from the bill that movies can be opened. [[But I was talking about how they're gonna be open, but there's gonna be more expensive tickets.]] Second thing... [[Mr. Senator...]] Second thing... [[...in a moment, sir, you will answer.]] Next question. I would very much ask the senator to tell me what Art says. 151 of the Labour Code. 'Cause it's all... I am a huge supporter of the amendment of this code, Art. 151. But if you tell me what this is about and what kind of deal it is, then we'll talk. 'Cause, ladies and gentlemen, I think we're misconstruing. This is a bill on the prohibition of trade on Sundays and holidays, not a bill on prohibition of work. And that's why I have a specific question: what does Art say. 151 of the Labour Code?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u208	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Senator...]] Mr. Senator, I still... [[Yes? I'm sorry.]] ...Senator Dorota Czudowska. Question to which Senator Rapporteur? [[It could also be a question for the senator...]] Senator Augustine? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u209	I'd like to ask you the same question you asked Senator Rooster, that is. whether the committee meeting referred to the breach of the Labour Code in respect of the taking away of rest opportunities for workers and the right to a day off from 6 a.m. to 6 a.m. This is about the beginning of the day off and the end of the day. Was there a speech about that?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u210	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u211	I'm gonna answer that first question. But of course I have read this project several times. And as I said, I am aware that cinemas, service establishments and other attractions that accompany trade in markets today will still be available if the owner of these facilities decides that these facilities will make money. Because I understand that today these costs are spreading into more entities. I often see on the boards that there are a few hundred of them. Now there's gonna be a dozen of them, and they're gonna have to make money to open up these markets. A lot of people say they won't open it. Others say they do, but if they pay for all the others who won't be able to work. So that maybe some of the movies markets will be open. At my place, there's a multikino in my town, and it's in the market right now. Will it still be open? How much are those tickets gonna cost? I have no idea, it's up to the owner. As far as working time is concerned, yes, Senator, as much as we talked about at the committee's meeting, this was raised by the applicants, referring to these provisions and saying that they are being violated very often. And, of course, these are the rules you're asking Senator Rooster about. I can't exactly quote them right now, because I just don't have any comparative material here or even a phone to check it out. Today's not the time to memorize codes, any recipe we can have in seconds, but I didn't take the phone, so I'm not gonna answer exactly. However, I'd like to assure you... And it was also said that unfortunately this bill will also provoke a breach of the labour code. I mean, in some places where it's strictly forbidden, it probably won't be possible, physically it won't be possible: the facility is closed, it's over. The code of work in this case cannot be broken. But this whole bunch of exemptions... I said in my report that this is one of our reservations, that it is not so, let's not pretend that those owners of small shops who employ 2, 3 people will observe that they personally stand behind the counter. I doubt that very much. I suspect there will be a widespread breach of the labour code, unfortunately. And I think it's a proposal that's here, and I'm not denying good intentions... Because Poles, if they rely on research, also mostly say that trade workers deserve free Sundays. But they don't link it to the need to close the markets. Because the fact that someone has to have the right number of Sundays off as a nurse doesn't mean that the hospital needs to be shut down. [[The Act does not apply to this.]] It's not like anyone's proposing that. That's why we think it's a missed offer. But the subject was raised by a few people. That's why you're Senator Rooster, and not just him, because as I recall, Senator Rulewski, too, and as I've heard here today, Senator Klein... They say: if we want the labour code not to be broken, if we want the conditions of equal competition not to be violated, the ban should be complete or it should not be at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u212	Senator Rooster would like to ask, wouldn't he? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u213	I didn't ask, and I wanted to say, because I knew I didn't... I'm in favour of sealing the work code, Art. 151. It's just that, ladies and gentlemen, art. 151 talks about work on holidays and holidays. It could be added on Sundays, but art. 151 says it's only for employees who have employment contracts. He doesn't talk about employees who work for a contract-order and a contract for a piece of work, and it can't be modified. But as we speak so loudly about the revision of the Labour Code, that's what it's all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u214	Okay, thank you very much. [[Yes, sir. You're gonna make it universal.]] Now you're asking Senator Robert Dowhan. Please indicate which one of you is the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u215	Thank you. Both. First of all, Senator Rooster, I wouldn't want you to divide into Catholics and non-Catholics because you don't know if... [[I'm sorry, but don't insult my feelings. I'm Catholic.]] ...Senator Duda is Catholic or not. I don't think it's serious to say here that on Sundays a Catholic just... If you don't want to... [[If someone is an atheist... I don't want you insulting me as a Catholic.]] [[Quiet, please.]] But I'm not insulting you. [[I think the holy day should be celebrated.]] [[Gentlemen...]] That's not insulting, Senator. Well, if you don't want to... [[Quiet, please.]] [[You can be an atheist. But don't insult me.]] Well, if you don't want to... If you want to sit in a church all day... [[Quiet, please.]] No one's forbidding you. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come [[But, Senator...]] ...doesn't forbid you to sit... [[Mr. Senator!]] ...in a shop or in a movie theater. Well, that's... [[Senator Robert Dowhan, I remind you that you have one minute to ask a question.]] I'm sorry, Mrs. Marshal, but this is ridiculous, because at first there was this argument about... [[But, Senator...]] ...to a fellow senator, that's...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u216	And the minute's up. And what's the point of that comment? You have to ask questions. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[In mercy, there will be a second.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Your marshal will allow it.]] Mr. Aleksander Comfort. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u217	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. It just so happens that I actually have some development of Senator Dowhan's thesis, so that this minute wasn't completely lost. I have a question for the rapporteur of the majority. Because Senator Rooster, speaking of which, as a Catholic, he thinks this ban should be complete... Was there any discussion on the committee, what about the Muslims we've had for 400 years? Well, a few... [[They're not working.]] There are also some Jews. Did they... Is there any distinction that they just happened to be on Sundays because... [[Saturday...]] On Sundays, they, as I recall, are not the strongest... But if this is the case, as Senator Rooster said, the basis of faith, then in the Middle Ages we had something like this in Poland, that institutions were opened just... that the Jews had institutions closed on Saturdays, Muslims, as I remember, on Fridays, and Catholics actually on Sundays. Was this such a serious aspect taken into account at the committee meeting? The second question for the senator is as follows. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 218a, Mr. Senator, it says, "Who is malicious?" or persistently violates the rules... Was there any interpretation of this provision, whether it was said what it meant maliciously or persistently? Has it been said how many times you have to violate these laws? Especially if someone violates this rule once, what does it mean that he violated it maliciously? Does he have to put up a banner or smile... I don't understand this recipe, and that's why I'm asking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u218	Thank you. Religious topics were not discussed at the committee meeting. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[There was an old recipe...]] Was? I'm sorry, I don't remember. Senator Rulewski might tell us later. [[Yeah, he was.]] As for criminal sanctions for malicious or persistent violations of the provisions of this law... According to §75 of the C.E.P. in the criminal provision, the marks of a criminal offence shall be determined in a comprehensive manner, without reference to orders or prohibitions contained in other provisions of the same law, in the provisions of other laws, including those referred to as "codex', in the provisions of international agreements ratified with prior agreement expressed in the law or directly applicable provisions of normative acts established by international organisations or international bodies. [[And it's all clear.]] [[Thank you.]] There you go. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u219	Thank you very much. Maybe we can group up some questions. First, Senator Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u220	Mr. Marshal! Dear Rapporteurs, I don't know which rapporteur to ask, but... [[Voice from the room: Both.]] Maybe both, actually. Wouldn't it be easier if you were just considering this situation... Because as far as I'm concerned, at the basis of this resolution... [[Laws.]] ...laws lie mainly as if preventing access to large shopping malls. If you look at the amendments that are here, you can see it quite clearly. Wouldn't it be better to actually make it clear that, here, we don't want big shopping malls to operate as centres, I don't know, trade, culture, spending time together? It's just that we're just using some runways to get into a certain environment, you know, like, that's the word I'm gonna use. Was there a speech about that?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u221	No, there was no talking about it, but the bakery was concerned about what a bakery is. 'Cause there was a discussion about the bill being passed, and... The bakery is baking bread out of flour, I didn't even know it... So, frozen... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] The thing is, in a lot of centers, it's baking out of frozen bread... So baking frozen bread isn't a bakery.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u222	Can I ask for a supplement, then? If this baker, who owns a bakery, bakes bread, yeasts, etc., two days earlier he bought deep-frozen bread and then bakes it in his bakery, then he commits a crime, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u223	If he runs the bakery and sells it himself, he can sell it. [[Maybe, even deep-frozen, right?]] It's just... [[Does he have employees...]] [[If he has employees, he can't.]] [[If an employee can't do it anymore.]] Yeah, not an employee anymore. Only in person, there's an amendment... [[Unless it's frozen...]] [[That's when he can't.]] [[Voice from the room: Frozen.]] [[If it's frozen, it can't...]] [[Voice from the room: It can defrost.]] [[Voice from the room: Maybe.]] [[No, he can buy frozen and bake himself.]] [[It's absurd of this bill that frozen...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] It's just that...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u224	Excuse me, Mr. Senator, let's sort this out. [[Yes.]] I'll collect three or four questions and then the senator will answer because... Thank you, Senator Rotnicka. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u225	To your rapporteur, the minority proposal. [[Augustine to the board.]] [[What?]] [[You have to work.]] [[We're working...]] Yeah, I agree, you can buy all week and all day, day and night, it's comfort. But don't you think, Senator, that comfort ends where other people's dignity is involved, their right to rest on Sunday or another day that everyone cares about? Don't you think that's too far-reaching a thesis? Second question: do you know and do your colleagues know that in most European countries Who knows if it's not in all of them? You don't buy refrigerators, compressors, ladders on Sunday afternoon? Finally, the third question: don't you think that, within the framework of this freedom, this freedom, we should also unify holiday days free from work? For not everyone cares about God's body, and there are those who want to eat and drink that day. And fourth question: why some senators Didn't all those who supported the minority request vote against the amendment to ban the sale of alcoholic products on Sunday?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u226	Mr. Senator Kaminski. [[There isn't.]] There isn't. Mr. Senator Bonisławski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u227	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I admit that I am a little surprised by the number of these gates that allow us to get out of this difficult situation, allowing us to trade in different places, e.g. in public transport, bus, rail, river transport, etc. If someone's in traffic and they're on a bus, is that what they call bus traffic? Is that what this was about? I think that based on what we have in this set, we can regulate it as we want, because it's not basically about small trade, it's about people, it's about brands. And let me remind you that in the past, until 1990, we had Sundays without trade, and then neither the faithful arrived nor lost. I think that this grip is gonna be a little bit less than economic loss now, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u228	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Dowhan now. [[He's not here right now, he's gone.]] [[He quit.]] No, it's okay. It's okay. Senator Comfort. [[There it is.]] [[I'm here.]] Present. [[Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind...]] Yes, you can. [[That's a question I'd like to put to the end of the list right now. Okay?]] It's practically over. [[Isn't there anyone else?]] You're still a senator... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[I have a formal question. May I?]] There you go. [[Then I'm at the end of the list because I see three senators.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u229	Mr. Marshal, I was in our legislators' office right now, and there's a terrible crowd. There's a lot of people and I got a little scared. I don't know if the building's secure and we can feel safe because there's about a thousand people there. They have candles, they have other things.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u230	I have a question for you: could you or your colleagues go out to these people and say that we are done discussing the courts? 'Cause the poor guys are gonna get their throats ripped off. [[We haven't voted yet.]] Unless they're protesting free Sundays. [[Mr. Marshal, you can unveil this wall here. There's a whole wall of windows, beautiful windows.]] [[Let's not argue.]] Interesting idea. We'll consider it, we'll consider it. Mr. Senator Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a very precise question for the rapporteur of minorities. I'd like to ask you if you agree, Senator, that shopkeepers who don't trade their goods in large shopping malls... Why should they be worse? Why do they have to work? And they have to work. They are not employees of large commercial networks and must work on Sundays on these existing rules. What's the difference between an employee from a large shopping mall and an employee in a neighborhood store who's gonna have to work anyway? This is some kind of aberration, some kind of absurdity. [[Okay...]] Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. Either it's for everyone, or it's for no one, not just the chosen ones.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u232	Thank you. I'm asking for answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u233	Mr. Senator, is it okay that some people have to work for comfort? You can say that: the labour code guarantees the right number of days off, although they vary in different professions. And once again, we wanted to take a step in this direction to guarantee people a day off when they wanted it, on Sundays, when everyone was celebrating what you emphasized, Mr. Senator. I don't think that's the right way to go about it. You're right, Senator Rooster. Excuse me for referring to you. This is not just a matter of changing the labour code. It would be worth considering and doing so in order to embrace those we really want to guarantee this free Sunday. Ladies and gentlemen, closing up some stores and not others doesn't solve this problem completely. This will result in a similar number of employees working in another formula, e.g. by executing orders of online shops. More people will work in services, as Senator Stanisławek said here, and with which I fully agree, or will deal with these regulations. And in my opinion, that will be the result, Senator. I agree with you, I'm sure we all agree as a minority applicant, but I don't support going this way. That's the difference. Do I know the country where you buy compressors on Sunday? Of course. On Sunday, I bought industrial goods with my friends in Germany. It's possible. The third question was about the amendment... [[Alcohol.]] Oh, it was about alcohol. I've been thinking, and I think this bill... I said this at the committee meeting, so let me just repeat that even at this meeting we will be considering another law, a law against alcoholism. This is not the right place to exclude individual articles from trade. Well, sir, you might want to include a record that At least during this transitional period, compressors must not be sold, not only alcohol. I don't think that's the way. I know how involved you are in countering alcoholism. It's very noble, and I'm sure we'll meet on this earth, because I'm in an anonymous alcoholic movement, just like you, getting involved. Although I have never been burdened with this addiction, I try to support this movement, and I regret, above all, that advertising is so intruding in our lives and popularizing alcohol. That's not good. There's something to think about, but I don't think it's that way again. Now I'm going to answer to the senator... [[Voice from the room:...Rulewski.]] ...Bonisławski. I'd be wrong about that, buddy. I'm sorry, I'm a little tired. Of course, you're right. Well, I think those ideas for bypassing the bill... Many of them were reported during the committee meeting. You could actually add what you were talking about to the catalogue of trade-connected transport services. Why not? You can sell it in the means of communication. Why don't we put it together? Maybe it's going to happen that we're gonna have brands on wheels. Senator Duda is asking about inequality when it comes to treating employees at 90% and 10%. stores where there will be a ban. Well, yes, sir. We've been paying attention. There are extreme proposals here. Some say that if we can't control it all This is our minority request. Let's give it up. Others say that if the way to a ban on trade on Sunday is to close down the facilities, then all of them should be closed, otherwise they will be circumventd. The third way is that we multiply the exemptions, and then we wonder if it's frozen and not frozen and if it's already frozen. I don't think it's going anywhere. In my opinion, this only justifies our request, the minority's conclusion that the rules on guaranteeing workers' free days on Sundays are quite badly cut, because they do not apply to everyone and are bypassable. That's why we're against it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u234	Thank you very much. I don't think there were any questions for the president. Another round. Mr. Senator Rulewski, and then Mr. Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u235	A question for the senator, the representative of the majority, your professor. Professor, during the committee's work, did the government present the outcome of the consultation with important, active participants of the whole process, repeatedly speaking, i.e. representatives of churches and, in particular, the Catholic Church? That's one thing. Secondly, can you explain to me why there is a difference in favour of working on Saturday and Sunday? If trade is to be conducted or limited... Why aren't the banks working? After all, it is difficult to carry out business operations without money, which are usually in banks. Very good. Why isn't the transport working on Sunday? I'm talking about cars with compressors and refrigerators. After all, people want to buy, and there is a ban on moving trucks, trucks on the roads of Europe. Finally, was the position of the current Prime Minister, who had previously expressed his determination in favour of Sundays free? Has it changed?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u236	Thank you very much. At the request of Senator Szymanski, I remind all of you that there will be questions for the Minister in a moment. Many of the questions asked... [[The Minister's answers will be most interesting.]] Exactly. And you're prolonging it right now. [[I'm done.]] [[It's okay to vote...]] I'll take your word for it, you're done. Mr. Senator Duda. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u237	Forgive the roundabout, but I would like to ask something of Senator Rooster, who is talking on the phone now and who cares so much about being banned from trading on Sundays. Do you think, Mr. Senator, in your beautiful village, the Guardians will be banned from trading on Sunday after the bill is passed, will people work in the store? What do you think? [[This isn't Senator Rooster's Question Time.]] That's why I said I was offering a detour here. I'd like to see Senator Rooster. He told me what's gonna happen. [[Can I answer that?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u238	You can ask that in the clowns. [[That's too bad.]] You're welcome, Senator Dowhan. [[But I'll answer...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u239	Thank you. Now that Senator Rooster is on the wallpaper, I have a question about whether he's on the phone at the church. It's not right to talk on the phone in the Senate. [[Calm down, please.]] I have a question for you, Professor. Professor, how did you vote at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u240	I held off. [[Voice from the room: Yes, it was.]] [[Sensational?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u241	Good. And I have a second question for Senator Augustine. The point is, he's gonna tell us... Mr. Senator... [[Augustine, it's for you.]] [[Excuse me, why don't I answer the questions? May I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u242	There you go, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u243	Senator Rulewski, I see... [[It wasn't a subject.]] I'm saying I don't remember having any conversation about the Church or the creeds. You were at the committee meeting. I don't know... That wasn't the topic discussed... [[No one presented the position of the Church. The church didn't exist at the committee meeting.]] No, no. Not at the committee meeting. As for the Prime Minister's position... [[Voice from the room: He's up.]] [[He asked a question...]] Okay, he's obviously not interested. He asked three questions and he's leaving. [[Voice in the room: It's about asking questions.]] I'd say, uh... There was a question for Senator Rooster. Right? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[It's okay.]] I would like to say that in small towns shops will be open as they have so far. Because there's nothing going to change if there's a landlord and he wants to work. [[Sure. But isn't there a trade ban on Sundays?]] This is... [[I'd like to ask you a second question.]] I'm sorry, Mr. Senator, it's a trade restriction law on Sundays and holidays and some other days. About the restriction. [[Voice from the room: Inequality.]] [[The exceptions are.]] [[That's the Minister.]] [[Senator Dowhan and Senator Florek.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u244	Mr. Senator Dowhan and Mr. Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u245	I have one question for you, Professor. I would like to ask you if you have heard of some of the large commercial networks to which this law is addressed only and exclusively Because nothing else comes out here, they have already decided that their companies z o.o. or share companies will hand over to employees, after one share, with a ban on disposal or a ban on trade. At the same time, if the employee has such an action, it will become the owner and, of course, such a market will be able to work. Was it taken into account or not? Because it's a very simple procedure. That's my first question. And I have a second question for Senator Augustine. [[Me?]] If you could zoom in on what it looked like during the committee hearing... Because you said a little shortcut that it was a pretty weird committee meeting because the amendments were mutually exclusive and chaotic. I do not quite believe that this can be done and that such a law is in the hands of the High House at all. [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u246	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u247	This was not the topic at the committee meeting, but this is a very interesting solution. I already said nature doesn't like vacuum. Yes? Well, we're a very creative nation. Now, if Senator Augustine will allow me, I will answer the second question because Senator Duda and I have held a committee meeting twice. Right? [[Joint committees.]] Yeah, the joint committee. And it's not that Senator Augustine said there was some chaos, it's that there were a lot of different proposals just about these exemptions. Yes? And we wanted to work it out. And there were different proposals. But just to be clear, there was no chaos, the committee meeting was held... [[It wasn't.]] [[Affirmative.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u248	If you don't mind... [[Yes, you're welcome.]] I'll explain. By "chaos" I meant that there were very different amendments concerning very different areas, issues and exemptions. And in this sense I agree with the senator that, despite the efforts of the President, who had to say this, he tried to make sure that everyone had the opportunity to express themselves and to make an amendment... [[That's what happened.]] To the extent that we have interrupted the session and resumed once again so that everyone can speak. But, of course, to gather all of this together, to determine which amendments come together, which are mutually exclusive... I, to be honest, didn't go out of the room completely convinced that we had all taken into account and that your patron was able to handle it all. She said herself she had doubts about it. But it must also be said that the amendments have been systematically voted out. As I recall, no one here protested, claimed that his amendment had not been taken into account, had somehow been omitted, misunderstood or something in that spirit. Anyway, I don't remember that. But I'm sure it looked like an adjustment on the side, so to speak, from the woods to Sasa. That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u249	Are there any more questions? [[Yeah, 'cause I haven't asked yet. That's the last question. I think I'm on the list, Mr. Marshal, because you read me.]] Yes. [[Me?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u250	Senator Augustine might be here for you. Mr. Senator, the bill says this commercial Sunday will be the first and last Sunday of the month. If I read that last and first, it's gonna be two next to each other, one next to the other. I understand that... the question is, where did this come from, why not? Every other one. When someone gets used to it... And here's the thing: two trades and then a day off. I understand it's related to making it easier for us to remember. If someone wants to set a schedule for themselves, they'll remember that first and last, not for example. alternately. Was there a discussion at the committee meeting, where it came from, why such days were set? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u251	No, I'm afraid that's... I mean... Well, I guess it wasn't discussed at the meeting. And that's actually gonna make it two commercial Sundays in a row, and then it's not...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u252	No further questions. Thank you... Are you still Senator Dowhan? [[Let me ask you a question, Mr. Marshal, Minister.]] Great. Thank you very much to the rapporteurs. The bill was introduced by the citizens. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would a government representative like to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: No.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Kleina... [[You forgot, Mr. Marshal...]] [[I was...]] [[Exactly, don't listen to this demonstration, please! It's the cops screaming!]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] You're welcome, Senator Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u253	Mr. Marshal, Minister... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: And I can't hear what's going on there.]] Minister... Are you the Minister? [[You're the minister, yes.]] Oh, there it is. I'm sorry. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: I am, I am.]] Mr. Marshal! Minister! I was part of this group of senators who thought it necessary to introduce more unambiguous solutions, i.e. either to definitely stop trading on Sundays, or to leave it as it is. But that's the solution, so we're working on the bill we got. I have a question about the amendments that were adopted at the committee meeting. Amendment 5 of the table of amendments refers to the right to trade in fish in first selling centres, fishing farms, commercial establishments for the collection of fishery and aquaculture products and trade in such products. This refers to those points of first sale. Does this mean that fishermen will be able to sell, trade fish from the boat when they return from fishing, or from the side, in other words, if there are employed workers on this boat? 'Cause if there's one fisherman out there, there's no problem, of course, but in a situation where there are employees working on this boat, which most often happens, because the crew on the boat is a couple of people... That's one problem. And another problem, perhaps even more important and more difficult. Here we are talking about a situation such that if the dominant activity in trade is e.g. selling flowers, then you can carry out this activity, or if it is e.g. selling a bakery that you run a bakery, etc... But what does it mean that this dominant economic activity is of this kind or of another kind? This is due to the entry in the register of entrepreneurs. And that's where the entrepreneur writes freely. In practice, it may say that it will deal with trade, bakery sales, but in this store there is everything about the food industry, because he is a baker, that's what he does, he also operates in the bakery industry at the same time. There are other cases... Is this principle that the dominant activity and this record result only from the entry in the register of entrepreneurs... But he can turn out to be very confusing... Because from experience, from practice, I know that this entry... Because there the entrepreneur usually lists several activities that he carries out, i.e. that he deals with both, but also this and so on. And in practice, he will now make such a selection and choose this kind of dominant activity, which is the first one in this register that will enable him to carry out this type of activity in order to be able to trade on Sundays. Is this a problem, is there, or do you think the minister doesn't have such a problem? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u254	Senator Rulewski will ask you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u255	What you heard, Minister... The government, which focuses on Christian values, could present the outcome of specific consultations and talks with the Church, which repeatedly and quite strongly emphasized, in agreement with the government, that the restriction of trade on Sundays favours investment in the family. Please describe the state of play regarding these opinions and consultations. Second question. What's it like? Trade is expected to develop every second and fourth Sunday in some institutions, but banks do not work only on Sundays, but also on Saturdays. How do we secure these commercial operations? This is not only about banks, but also about transporting compressors, refrigerators to these open shops. Third question. What is the situation in this area in the West? Because I didn't get any opinions that there was an action to expand trade on Sunday or even on Saturday. And the fourth question. In connection with the celebration of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, did you read the 1921 law, the regulation, I'm sorry... and not the law on working time in industry and trade?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u256	Mr. Senator Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u257	Thank you very much. Minister, I know that as a resort, you have fought bravely for this project that was proposed as part of the citizens' initiative. Let's call it that. It was not accepted in all its lengths. But couldn't you really be the Ministry of Labour... as the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy to achieve this goal through changes in the Labour Code? So it's a ban on forcing people to work on Sundays, and it's about offering those who want to take this job voluntarily, much higher stakes, I don't know, 250%, 300%. daily salary, as I said earlier. And why would such a law, if this issue could be solved in a simpler way, namely to protect workers from mandatory work on Sunday's labour code? Did you propose this? And my question is, why did you agree to make it that way and stay here? Is it likely that this will be accepted? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u258	I don't see any more questions. You're welcome, Minister... [[They were, they were... and they were my...]] Mr. Senator... The Minister will first respond to... [[I would, Minister... and I'll ask you a question.]] [[Later, later.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u259	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start by asking Senator Kleina, actually asking for an interpretation of the amendment, because I think that's the senator's question. I have the impression that it is enough to make a systematic interpretation of this law, i.e. I don't want to be able to go into the nuances of Amendment 5. I think we could have this kind of discussion about each of the exemptions that we have in the article. Six, and there's probably a lot of doubt here too. But I have the impression that it's enough to read the text of the article. 5 of the Act already passed by the Sejm, which provides for a ban on commercial activities as a rule, and Article. 6, which excludes certain trading facilities from this prohibition. It doesn't matter if a fisherman hires someone in a working relationship, fishing or not. It is important that this type of activity, say, is generally excluded from this prohibition, even when we are talking about fishermen who eat as part of the work of workers in the context of a civil law contract. We have a lot of these basics. We also have self-employed people. It can be said that all these situations are covered by this exemption.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u260	Minister, I'm sorry... At the committee meeting, we were talking about the fact that the fish trade as a fresh product, which must be, so to speak, sold... And as part of this amendment, we only shut down the first fish sales centers. And the first fish sales centers are organizational units, where not all fish are sold, a large part of the fish is sold just off the side. And that's exactly what this was all about. Is that... And here's kind of a problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u261	Mr. Senator, I'll say the same thing again. We are dealing with the exclusion, not the subject matter, i.e. certain types of entities which carry out such activities, generally from the scope of the prohibition on commercial activities set out in Article. 5. [[So I guess we're gonna have to make some adjustments... and we're gonna have to fix it a little bit more...]] [[Are these the answers to all the questions?]] There's been a public consultation question. I would like to remind you that we are dealing with...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u262	But my second question was about this basic activity, it was about the entry in the register of entrepreneurs, for example. There's a bakery and that's any choice of entrepreneur... He's typing... There is such a box in the register of economic activities that the various activities carried out by the trader are entered. And then he, let's say, first typed e.g. The bakery, and then he writes something else, something else, etc., and that's actually his business. From a tax point of view, etc. This case doesn't matter. But now the situation may be that the entrepreneur, as a dominant activity, will enter the bakery as excluded... and at the same time have the remaining activities entered. Isn't there going to be some confusion here? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: I feel that it will not happen. If the senator could help me further by pointing out an amendment in which this solution is contained...]] This does not concern the amendment, but concerns an article in the Act which defines the dominant activity. I think it's art. 5... wait a minute.. I'm sorry, I'll find it. I'll find it in a minute... [[Good. You're the senator who's gonna look, and now I'm gonna ask the minister to answer any more questions...]] Oh, I got it. It is said that: the transversal activity in question means... It's an art. 6 point 2 on page 5 of the Act. And it is said that: the dominant activity in question is the type of dominant activity indicated in the application for entry in the national register of official entities of the national economy. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Again. Which is the recipe because...]] This is point 2 of the article. 6, yes, art. 6. There's all the shut-downs up to 30... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: This is paragraph. Two, right?]] Yeah, that's the mouth. Two, I'm sorry. Is that record so...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u263	Here the Act proposes a formal criterion, i.e. the criterion for identifying this activity in the application for entry in the national register of entities of the national economy, on the basis of the provisions of the Law on Statistics. So it can be said that the decision of a business person who will simply declare which of these activities is the dominant activity will be important here. [[So it's here after all...]] Formal criterion. There won't be... [[Yeah, sure, so there's gonna be a lot of freedom. Right?]] Means the formal criterion, the entrepreneur's declaration. I think you're in favour of freedom here too... [[Right.]] The trader has the right to declare which activity he considers to be predominantly active. I think these conditions are met here.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u264	Minister, I agree with you on this. It's just that we're all kind of turning a blind eye at this stage of the bill. Meanwhile, President Stanisławek abstains from voting because he has doubts as well. [[But that's a question you ask...]] I see the Minister has these doubts, too. Well, isn't it better for now to throw this bill into space and...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u265	No, the course of this discussion doesn't lead me to believe that. So I don't know why you're here, Senator... [[No? 'Cause I'd like to...]] ...he's drawn such conclusions. [[I'm sorry. I'm sorry.]] Another question was whether this issue should be regulated in the Labour Code. I listened to a very interesting discussion about this code regulation. I think it might be worth mentioning a little in order to sort out this discussion with the provisions of the Labour Code that relate to the issues under discussion. I'm gonna surprise you a little, because the work code in the article. 1518 formulates... [[No, no, no, no, ……]] ...generally ban on working on Sundays and holidays as defined in the Act on days off from work. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] [[That's all the more reason...]] And maybe I'll surprise you with the fact that in Article. 1519 is an exception. There is an exception to this prohibition in Article. 1518. This is a provision which provides that Sunday work is permitted in commercial establishments to carry out the work necessary in view of their social usefulness and the daily needs of the population. There is therefore a ban and there is an exception. What the practice of applying the rules looks like, you have given a great deal of thought to this country. Right? [[We know everything.]] [[But the project doesn't change, Minister.]] You have stated that we are dealing with the full freedom to conduct a commercial activity in a situation where there is a de facto provision limiting the possibility of such a commercial activity on Sundays. [[Then what's the point of this bill if it's what it is?]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] This bill is going to put an end to this ban... [[If you can work...]] ...real character, give real character. In the discussion, you talked about the fact that the subjective scope of the Labour Code is limited, limited to those in employment, it is a prohibition on employment, it is a ban on working in relation to work on Sundays and on holidays, on days off from work. This is a ban that does not cover the performance of work under other formulas, right, under a civil law contract, under self-employment. In this respect, I understand the intention of the authors of this project, I understand that the idea is to make such gaps, which allow really circumvention of the rule, simply eliminate. So that's all I can say. There are also questions about the consultation. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that today we are discussing a law which was adopted by the Sejm as a result of the submission of a citizens' bill. During the discussion, it was also said that this is a law which restricts civil rights or civil liberties. I would like to remind you that, in the Constitution, we have the right to rest in the Constitution. It is the right to rest that implements the statutory provisions on working time, on holidays, also on holidays. We have a code book that prohibits work on Sundays and holidays. Does this ban apply to trade, or is it applied? Well, you actually answered your own question in the discussion. [[I have one more question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u266	Senator Dowhan. Then you're Senator Szymanski, right? [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal...]] [[But I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal...]] [[Don't interrupt.]] [[I'm not interrupting. I'm sorry.]] [[Please.]] [[But I've asked three questions, Minister, I can do three more...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u267	One of the questions was about the book, did I read a book? [[No, no, an opinion, a consultation with churches, especially the Catholic Church. The third question was why, at that time, transport is closed by virtue of the Act, which supplies goods to these shops, and banks that are not only not open on Sundays, but also on Saturdays.]] Mr. Senator, I'll say it again. This is a bill that was filed by a group of citizens. The Sejm was the host of this project from the very beginning. Public consultation... I also did not have the opportunity to participate directly in the legislative work on this project at the stage of work in the Sejm, because this role was played by the Minister of Sweden, who is absent today because of his voting duties in the Sejm. However, this is actually a question for the senators of the rapporteurs, because the Senate is the host of this project as regards the stage of parliamentary work in the Senate. And actually, I would suggest that you refer this... [[I understand you don't know the position of the Church.]] ...questions to... [[You don't know the position of the Church.]] No, you asked me for a consult, so I answer that someone else is the recipient of this question. [[So there was no consultation, and you don't know your position.]] [[All right, well, let's not.]] [[I'll give you one, hypocrite.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u268	That's it? That's it, Minister? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Yes, sir. Thank you.]] [[That was the end of the answer.]] Good. Senator Vistula, Rulewski... [[The voice from the hall: No, no, that can't be, Rulewski just took the floor and again?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Rulewski took the floor without a line, and now he's in line.]] [[Voice from the room: scandal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u269	Minister, when I listen to the debate and read this law, I am so convinced that the law, which has the title to tighten up the rules of trade on Sundays, and which is estimated to cover only 10% commercial facilities... You said she was going to close the gaps, and there are plenty of gaps that senators were talking about how they could be used: bakery to make, company to do. Didn't the ministry at some point have such a feeling that this law had nothing to do with the title that was given to it? I'm gonna ask you about one more potential gap. The law excludes ports, and rightly so, because the inclusion of ports in this law would kill these Polish ports. And if you do, for example. treated barge on which, after entering the port, containers will turn into commercial facilities? If the port's off, you can sell it there. Thank you. [[Yes, marine vessels and merchant ships are also excluded. Is this a port... but not ports, just hydrological devices.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] No, no, the port's off, too. He's off the trade ban...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u270	Thank you very much. Congratulations on your imagination, Senator. I would like to say that with some of the comments that have been made concerning the various possible ways of dealing with these rules, I simply cannot agree. If I hear that a way to circumvent these rules would be, for example, the appointment of an employee company and the surrender of shares to employees or participation in a limited liability company... Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about capital companies, which are simply... they are equipped with legal personality, they are an entity, a separate entity, regardless of ownership structure. So if the rule says that this trade ban doesn't apply in a situation where the store owner is running this tupu. ... well, with all due respect, but the shareholder of the public limited liability company or the shareholder of the limited liability company to which the trading establishment belongs is not the owner of the store. So this kind of concern I'd like to say right away if I wanted to, let's say, calm you down. That's what I'd say.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u271	Mr. Senator Klein. [[Mr. Marshal, I have a question for you.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Minister, I'm still...]] [[Mr. Secretary!]] Senator Wczyła is the one keeping the list. What can I do? [[Who's guarding the list?]] [[Easy!]] Mr. Senator Tight. [[Minister...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator of the opposition. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u272	He's doing it very well, it's a very good rhythm of questions. [[Pretty good, 'cause it's close to the marshal.]] Yes. Minister, there's a question about the garrisons. Because under the law, the garrisons have been turned off... i.e. You will be able to trade in garrisons. I've been checking the garrison definition, and they're like... Garrison Warsaw, Garrison Gdansk and they cover the whole area... no, Poland is simply divided into garrisons. If you look at the map of Poland and ask for information where there are some garrisons, it will turn out that practically all of Poland is divided into garrisons. And what does that mean? How is this to be understood? So that in garrisons, in garrisons, you can trade? Is that a sufficient, well-edited record that doesn't raise doubts? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u273	Can I provide an answer in advance which would also provide answers to other potential such questions? [[Yeah, of course.]] I'd love to do that. Mr. Senator, of course, the laws of every law use all sorts of undefined phrases. In fact, it is the role of case law that these sometimes vague provisions of the various laws should be complied with and that these provisions may be applied in practice, the smooth application of those provisions. And I actually wouldn't want to interpret these records today. I would just like to leave this role to the judicial case-law which this role plays and which it will also perform in the future.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u274	Mr. Senator Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u275	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, if I wanted to be mean, but I'm not, I'd say Like you said, congratulations on my colleague's imagination. I congratulate you on your lack of imagination as regards the effects of this law. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Thank you very much.]] Please. But, like I said, I'm not mean. The State, as Ministry, agreed that this law as a citizen's project should be examined despite all the shortcomings that we have shown during the work of the Joint Committees and which we are demonstrating today. Because in fact, this bill is going to lead to the fact that nothing's going to change, and today, we've been dealing with what somebody invented, well, there's this whole legislative process. But that's not exactly what I'd like to ask. I would like to ask the Minister very precisely the following question. Well, according to the rules that are proposed, trade will be possible... I am talking here about a very sensitive issue related, among others. with railway stations. You know the subject, don't you? Trade will be possible in the entities referred to in this provision only to the extent related to the direct handling of travellers. How, then, are you going to examine whether or not trade is related to direct travel or not? Or is it gonna look like you're gonna be standing there, sorry to call it a political officer, and you're gonna check it out: you're gonna go to Warsaw, okay, you can buy it, and unfortunately you're here for groceries, so you're gonna walk home? How are you gonna check which sales are related to travelers and who aren't? 'Cause I don't think it's worth checking out. This, too, will undoubtedly limit the ability of travellers to function normally, who will not know how to behave in such a situation. Thank you. [[It's gotta have a ticket.]] [[It's a platform.]] [[It's a platform.]] [[Loud trumpet sounds, sirens, demonstration shouts under the Senate building]] [[They're screaming and screaming...]] [[You can't focus because there's noise. Oh, they're cops, right?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u276	Then why don't you go out and ask them to stop. [[We don't want to go there.]] The appeal on your part might calm them down. [[This is, Mr. Marshal, the sovereign.]] [[Yeah, we can't control it.]] [[No, Mr. Marshal, but you can change the rules...]] Especially since we're already on the market on Sunday. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u277	Mr. Marshal, I will actually answer exactly the same way I answered the previous question: actually each of the provisions of the Act, each of the entries, each of the terms is characterized by a certain lack of precision. I believe in the practice of applying the provisions of this law, also in judicial practice, and I trust that in the case law of the Supreme Court these doubts which the senator has will be resolved. [[So we're gonna go to court.]] [[I'm gonna buy some buns, and I'm gonna go to court.]] [[In Biedronka.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u278	It's over, isn't it? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Yes, thank you.]] Senator Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u279	Mr Marshal, High Izbo, because this discussion that we are currently having through questions, as well as the discussion at the 2 meetings of the joint committees, shows that we have a lot of doubts about the social consequences, the economic consequences that this law will bring about... I think that the government also had no clarity about what these effects would be, so it proposed a gradual introduction of free Sundays, in short. But didn't he think about proposing not two Sundays next year, just one, just to see what the consequences would be, and possibly to modify the bill? Has this kind of solution been considered, that we start from one Sunday, then we go to two, etc., in distribution for the following years? Thank you very much. Please respond, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u280	Of course, this kind of solution was analyzed. There were actually discussions on different options for this distribution, on Sundays free of commercial activities and on Sundays where such activities can be carried out. And these solutions, which are already in the passed law, are of such a nature that trade restrictions are being introduced as if in two stages. From 1 March 2018, the ban will not apply in the case of two Sundays preceding the first day of Christmas, also on Sundays preceding the first day of the Great Night, and in addition there are solutions that establish commercial activities on the first and fourth Sundays of each month. From 1 January 2020, a solution will be introduced to exempt the last Sunday from the ban on commercial activities in January, April and June and August. As any law will be subject to such monitoring on an ongoing basis, and depending on the effects of the new regulation, appropriate decisions may be taken. It's a surveillance mechanism, let's call it that. It is not directly reflected in the content of this law, but it is natural that the effects of the social impact, as well as the economic effects of I think it will be the same for this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u281	Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u282	Good. Thank you very much. Minister, I understand that when it comes to assessing the impact of regulation and these social consequences, you cannot tell how many more or less people might lose their jobs. I'm talking about small businesses, small businesses, small shops. Not so branded, big that are in galleries In smaller towns. There are small galleries where these small entrepreneurs rent a room and, of course, pay the right rent. But now they're gonna lose that one day's work a week if they're using it. I'm sure no one's gonna lower them. So I think it's gonna touch... I'm not talking about big cities, these brand stores. It's something else, but it's about those little entrepreneurs who rent out these properties. They're on it too, Minister. And that's what I'm saying. I think they're gonna lose it. And one more thing about these stations. Here is an example of the station in Poznań built on Euro. This is a gallery connected to the train station. How can this be resolved in the future? So that I think that this bill is a long, long and many times we will talk about it, and the amendment will be soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u283	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the Impact Assessment, we are told what the number of employees in the trade sector may be affected by this law. We estimate the size of this sector... the number of people employed in this sector at the level of 377 000 people. But of course this is not equivalent to the fact that these people will lose their jobs in trade because we know that the trade sector will somehow adapt to the changed legal situation. If this ban covers Sundays, we assume that this will also be at the expense... or that the other side of this solution will, however, extend the working time in trade, for example on Saturday, which will also be related to the possibility of working in accordance with the provisions of the Labour Code. [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Okay, okay. What's the percentage?]] [[Voice from the room: No. Extending work...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Calm down, please!]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] As far as small shops are concerned, I will remind you, because this element appeared earlier in the discussion that this law does not prohibit the conduct of business in a situation where the work is carried out directly by the owner of the commercial facility. So, if we are talking about small establishments, including those located in large shopping malls, there is no obstacle to such activities being carried out by the owners of these trading malls. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: You have to open all this...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u284	You'll ask Senator Dowhan another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u285	Oh, thank you. I've waited, Mr. Marshal. But I also have a question for your marshal. What time is it scheduled to close today? Because it's twenty-two... [[It's all in the hands of the opposition.]] And I made an appointment with a friend I haven't seen in a couple of nice years... [[We're ready for session by 2:00 a.m.]] ...and he's been waiting since 6:00. He said that the Labour Code is so respected in Poland that for more than 8 hours nobody He doesn't work, except for the senators. [[We're ready for session by 2:00 a.m., Mr. Senator.]] Oh, till 2:00 a.m.? [[Why not till 3:00?]] Do we get provisions, according to the labour code, and a higher allowance? [[Voice from the room: Answer to the question...]] Okay... I'd like to ask you a question. Minister, with all due respect to you and Minister Rafalski, whom I know personally, no answer really convinces me. Well, you don't have any certainty about what you're saying, because you answer every question like any child who comes here... Once you talk about the work code, once you talk about the shut-offs, once you talk about the shut-downs. Tell me something like that. We have 2 cool examples, which probably every Pole who moves around Poland a little, today knows. One best example, Mr. Florek said. He said about an example that connects the railway station PKP and the railway station in Poznań... plus there are probably also taxis and public transport. Everything's nicely connected. The modern shopping centre is between this railway station and the bus station and the bus station. Tell me if this center will be closed. If it is closed, then in order to move from the PKP station to the PKS station, you will have to go around the bridge, because this is the only way between the tracks. Tell me if this center will be closed. And a second example. 500 meters from here, next to the Central Station is McDonalds, there's Ladybug, there's a connection to the Golden Terraces, where there's probably a mini Tesco or Ladybug... I don't know... there's two or three brands. Tell me if it's closed or not. Are you the controller? If you're gonna play controller with this bill, you're gonna go in there and close it, are you gonna open it, according to this bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u286	Mr. Senator, you're the first person I know who likes this bogeyman in Poznan. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] You're welcome, Minister. [[Voice from the room: Excellent.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u287	I'm afraid, Senator, I'm still not going to be able to please you, so that... [[In writing...]] [[Would you close it or not?]] I would not like to speak about architectural nuances of the railway station in Poznań or various shopping galleries, because I think we can talk about various shopping galleries in Warsaw... I don't want to talk about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u288	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u289	Well, I've already learned, Minister, that you don't go to church on Sunday. But no, no... I don't mind. I don't go either, 'cause I'm listening on the radio... Minister, the point is, I'm sure you're listening to Mrs Szydło and I think Morawiecki now. They've spoken quite decisively in these matters. You can remind the House of what really is the current position, the real... [[Voice from the room: About what?]] ...to ban or restrict trade on Sundays.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u290	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! This assumption that you've taken, that I don't go to church on Sunday, is simply wrong. [[I'm sorry.]] [[Yeah, don't push yourself.]] I don't know on what basis you formulated that assumption. [[Because every second Sunday they read the position of the Church in this matter.]] [[Every Sunday, every Sunday...]] On the other hand, the government's position on this bill is expressed by the position which was presented during the legislative work, the position adopted by the Council of Ministers. In addition to the legislative comments, in addition to the specific comments, I think you have had an opportunity to familiarize yourselves with this position during the legislative work. Well, I would like to draw attention here to the two essential elements that the Council of Ministers has included in this position. First of all, the Council of Ministers voted in favour of a possible. I stress: a possible step-by-step implementation of the amendments proposed in civil society, which I also stress, the draft law. Secondly, I will draw attention to the recommendations that are included in the position of the Council of Ministers. The government recommends further work on the citizens' bill on reducing trade on Sundays, but assuming that during this work any comments and doubts put forward in this position of the government and expressed by the various environments and stakeholders involved in the bill will be carefully considered, as well as proposals for a different approach to this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u291	Mr. Senator Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u292	Thank you very much. I would like to protest against my colleague, Senator Dowhan, saying that the Minister is responsible here in a way that is not entirely professional. 'Cause that's how I figured it out. What I'm trying to say is that I'm satisfied with these statements. I feel that the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy is not a great supporter of these solutions that are being introduced, but this is my feeling, you can correct it for me in a moment, and I'm sure the Minister will. However, I would like to ask more about whether, in view of the fact that this ban on trade on Sundays, rolling, whether it will be two Sundays or... What if all Sundays were free of trade? Did you order a simulation, or do you have a simulation of the impact this will have on the labour market and on the possible loss of jobs in this area of trade, which is, after all, important for the development of the Polish economy? Do you have these tests? Or did you order them or order them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u293	As far as the data that I have provided is concerned, the number of people employed in the trade sector that this law will concern, we are resisting... As I have stressed, this does not mean that this number reflects the number of people who will lose their jobs in this area, because, as we know, the organization of commercial activities after the entry into force of the provisions of this law... I'm paying attention. Mr. Senator mentioned it well here. We are talking about the gradual introduction of this solution, so businesses operating in the commercial sector will have the opportunity to gradually, slowly, systematically prepare for this changing legal situation. The number of employees affected by the regulation, i.e. employees working regularly today on Sundays, regularly, in such working time systems where work is permitted on Sundays, e.g. in the weekend work system, that's 377 thousand people. It was not necessary to commission such studies or to carry out a special order, because we based our estimates on the 2015 survey of economic activity of the population. This is where the number of people doing work on Sundays, employed workers doing work on Sundays appears. So it's 377,000 people. [[Mr. Marshal, may I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u294	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u295	Thank you. But do you have a simulation? The Minister was talking about 377,000. Do you have a simulation... I understand that it has to be somehow modified by extending working hours on Saturday, etc., etc., but do you have a simulation of this... And I guess I didn't ask, and I wanted to do it, so now I'm gonna ask if I can. Did you order or do you want to order... Because this bill, I understand, and this is convincing to me, is to protect the Polish family, so that mothers and fathers do not have to work on Sundays. But do you have any data... I suspect not, or maybe it's worth trying to get them together. In this situation, maybe it is worth checking who works on Sundays in a trade or in a trade arrangement? Isn't that the way I see it, rarely very much, students? And it's like it's not hitting the Polish family because they're the ones who want to make money. Isn't it worth seeing who is the main beneficiary of the trade on Sunday? And is that even to be investigated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u296	We do not have such studies as to the age or nature of the activities carried out by those doing this work at the moment. We would have to do a more detailed analysis of the structure of this group of 377 thousand people. As I said, such a key would perhaps be to apply the working time system criterion in which these people are employed, because it seems to me that in this weekend work system it would be necessary to look for this category of people. But today I am unable to provide detailed data on the structure of this group of employees.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u297	Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u298	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, tell me, what's the difference between an employee who's gonna be selling at a gas station or a bakery or selling a Sunday newspaper at a newsstand or a big market employee you want to close? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zieleniacki: The question is what considerations decided that in the article. 6 is there such a large number of exemptions from the ban on commercial activities?]] No. What's the difference between these people? One's gonna work and the other one's not gonna work because one's got a job at the mall and the other one's got a job at the gas station. With what?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u299	With regard to the considerations which have decided on this large number of exemptions, I would say that these are really considerations relating to the need to meet the needs of the population, which also benefits from certain commercial activities on Sunday, so... That is the justification. [[And when they go to the market, they don't use it?]] Does your question concern criteria for the differentiation of the legal situation of workers in the labour market? [[Yes, Mr. Minister. One's gonna have to work at a gas station because you don't shut it down, and the other one's not gonna work because you're shutting him down. How is one man different from another man? Tell me.]] I'll say it again. The principle of equality, constitutional, actually also a code, which is detailed in the provisions of the Article. 18 with stamps, no absolute character. The Code also applies to the rule that I quoted today, which says that we are facing a ban on hiring workers on Sundays and holidays... The Code contains a catalogue of exemptions similar to that in this Act. So, based on various aspects, as I said, also that in the case of... Well, in fact, based on the interests of customers, the fact that for certain commercial activities there is simply a need to meet the basic needs of the population, the legislator decides to do so. And just as the Labour Code provides for exceptions to the rule, the fact that in some cases it is permissible to employ workers on Sundays, as well as this law, for similar reasons, formulates a specific catalogue of exemptions from this rule. It seems to me that the key to taking these exemptions more generally is, first and foremost, the direction of the interests of the customers, that is to say, in some cases such commercial work is necessary precisely because of the needs of citizens who cannot be satisfied on another day.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u300	I don't hear any more questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Thank you.]] [[I have another question.]] [[Oh, Jesus! Stop...]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u301	I know, Senator Rooster, that you'd like to lock it up and get everyone to church, but that's not how it's gonna work. [[You don't take trips here...]] You started it first. [[Mr. Marshal, I don't want anyone taking trips like this... yeah, I'm Catholic and I go to church.]] Mr. Stanislaw Dear, you're the first one to start. [[Voice from the room: To shore.]] Yes. I'd like to ask you a question. I have a son who, with many of his colleagues, works at the markets on Sunday, they have signed some contracts, for example for the sale of carp, now they have cleaning jobs, as many students do. What offer do you have for them? I ask because at the moment they will be cut off from decent work for good money, which gives them the opportunity to do things they can't afford in this situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u302	I think this bill doesn't prevent anybody from working in the trade sector. We're talking about a ban on hiring on Sundays, which is a day that should, in principle, be a day off from work. I have referred to here a provision of the Labour Code, which is a rule that is formulated by it. I also referred to an exception provision. This provision is actually not entirely applicable, as you have made it clear in the course of your discussion, but the senator also confirms it. He simply does not restrict in any way because of the very broad way of considering the conditions allowing employment opportunities, in no way does he play such a selection role. I'll get back to that recipe. Notice that he actually uses similar premises to those by which I tried to explain to the senator the substance of the exemptions that are in the article. 6 of this bill. I would like to say that these exemptions actually fit into the logic of this provision: work on Sundays is allowed in commercial establishments to carry out the necessary work because of their social usefulness and the daily needs of the population.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u303	Thank you. Senator Dowhan again. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u304	Yes. Not all the time, because it's known that small shops have this service and they don't need extra hands to work. It involves working in big corporations, let's not kid ourselves. Now that we're here with these big corporations, maybe the Minister knows the answer to a question that the Senator rapporteur didn't know the answer to. In fact, there are so many exemptions... Can you tell us which stores will be closed on Sundays and which shops, the shops, really?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u305	As I said before, the Act bans work in commercial establishments, a general ban on work in commercial establishments, except in those cases mentioned in the article. 6. If I remember correctly, the senator didn't have time to record the cases mentioned in the article. 6 and there are about 30 such cases. I don't think it's a good time to read them. I have the impression that the rules in this area are quite precise. [[Look, I've got a record, I've got it all written down.]] A completely unnecessary job, all you had to do was reach for the bill, Mr. Senator. [[I wanted to see if it was compatible...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u306	Good. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u307	Yes. Mr. Minister, how many students are working, working on commercial networks? What is a row of greatness? If you can't give me an exact number, then of course I'm asking for an approximate number. A dozen, a dozen...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u308	I am able, Mr. Senator, because this number was in the middle of a discussion today. Let me remind you that in the impact assessment in this law this number is defined, this is 377 thousand people. Senator Duda has already asked a question about how this structure is presented... [[But students? 377,000 students?]] I also answered the question about the structure of this group of people. I said we didn't have that kind of data... [[What you said, the 377,000...]] [[That's everybody.]] [[They're all working students?]] Yes, sir. [[Not students, employees.]] [[Oh, the employees...]] Employees. [[Employees, not students.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u309	If there are no further questions, thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Rulewski was the first to speak. No props this time, Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u310	Yes. Minister, Mr. Marshal... [[Don't provoke...]] [[Right. I'm sorry.]] ...preparing the next edition. [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] But today I intend to speak directly to the House on this matter. I might even be arrogant and alone... I've even become one of those, Minister, when I said you don't seem to be going to church, Minister. But it was just a question of the state of the art. The consultation is not based on the fact that the church comes to the government or the government, but what happens is that it goes to the church. The consultation is also about this... But I know for a fact that the Episcopate has sent its position to the government, and not only to the government, including Members and Senators. Well, apparently then you were replaced by Minister Swed and he didn't read it. However, I would like to return to the essence of the matter. This is a discussion that really doesn't just cause divisions... But the question in this discussion is: how much comfort and how much dignity? How much can the state be the regulator of these 2 values? Undoubtedly, the opening up of shops, trade, but also other areas of business are convenient for consumers, or even for producers, or even for workers who supplement their modest income. But it is true for thousands of years that mankind has accepted the principle actually dictated by religion, that one of the 7 days is a day of rest. Believers already say that it is a day for God, and unbelievers today even say that they want such a day. Western civilization, in particular European civilization, has adopted a moving model, because it is a civilization of progress, that the free day is not only Sunday, but also Saturday. Hence I have the right to speak and expect that we should strive for weekend civilization. And we don't find any cards. And that's why I asked the Minister. Minister, 100 years ago... 100 years of independence, which all politicians worship so much here, so do I... At the time, it meant something to these people... It was important, just after the war disaster, to introduce labour law, in which the week of work was shortened and harmonised. But it was also introduced by law, signed by Marshal Trempczyński, art. 10. And it is worth recalling the history of our country seen not only from the side of the shooting acts, but also from the side of various things. This article reads: On Sundays and holidays, by law marked, work in establishments subject to this Act is prohibited, except... And here only 4 exceptions are mentioned. The even more interesting thing is that they couldn't reduce their earnings, and also this. I'm already going too far to this bill. This prohibition is controlled by the authorities and is written down in one sentence, which is also worth mentioning: "Transparency of the provisions of this Act will be punishable by a fine of up to 5,000 marks or detention for up to 3 months'. In this law, in 3 conflicting laws, it is stated that whatever will be done in this matter. But to the point. Yes, this discussion is important because it is about whether we want to be in the current of this civilisation and we want to show Polish separateness. Poland's distinctness is actually based on attachment to the Church, not only through faith, but also through tradition, through achievements. We also want to sign in... because John Paul II talked about it, at least in Gdansk I hope there's a lot of people here who've heard it. To carry one's burdens on the other. Not just for yourself, for the companies. Today, after this debate, I find that many government representatives really support the idea: 2 Sundays free from trade and 2 working, because on these 2 Sundays a man goes to Our Lady of Czestochowa and in the others prays to the mammon. [[Voice from the room: Money.]] Money, only money determines... it's so valuable that you can make a deal, you can look at it so that one carries the burden of another. It is said that trade will lose. Yes, trade will lose, maybe others will lose, get involved in this game of employees, although for hundreds of years, even in communion, they did not work on Sundays, there was a fight for Saturdays off. It says he's gonna lose. Well, how can he lose if the amount of money spent on families is still the same for employees and even bigger? Then how can trade lose? Are people supposed to throw that money away? No, they'll go and spend on other days, other hours. Mr. Minister noticed that. And employees who don't work on Sundays will work on Saturdays. Western civilization, worth taking an example, responds to social challenges. People want to work less, they want to rest more, so automatos are introduced in factories, and in trade the Internet and other forms. Let us not assume that there will always be a standing woman behind the counter at the mall who moves 8 t of goods. There will be other solutions, e.g. forwarding companies, perhaps there will be solutions using other forms of technology. So let us remember the man and remember that people really want, although not all, to spend this day not as they are offered by employers: that trade is to be conducted all week, even at night, and rest will, of course, be when the entrepreneur gives them a vacation or gives them nights off if he gives them. The position of OPZZ in this case, which says to buy these Sundays, is very dangerous to pay more. Yes, no doubt trade would pay more today because it is looking for employees, but when other techniques or other forms of trade come in, it will not only not pay but will slow down. And that's why I call on OPZZ to change her mind. As I say, the total amount of money that is traded for trade, to be spent by consumers, is constant, does not change, and the thing of trade is to do so that this money flows into trade and that the industry has profits. Second thing. They're talking about 370,000 people. That's a lot. They have families, so let's increase it, at least times 3. [[Over a million.]] It's gonna be a million. In addition, the Minister no longer talks about the fact that in order for trade to work, there must be other services: kindergartens, crèches, someone at that time must take care of these children. Transport, communications, security services must also operate. That's another hundreds of thousands of people. Only to make profits, and for some to trade. Third case. Sorry, the third issue was the position of the OPZZ, where this case is being developed. Fourth thing is, it's a concern for trade to get paid. Somehow you're not asking if everyone has income, these companies have fallen and these companies have failed, you're just interested in trade. And finally, the fifth case. If anything, you really have to think... I don't want to use the word "compromise," but you have to think about using compromise methods to preserve values. Is it a compromise that the government... the Minister of Sweden, the Man of Solidarity, voted in favour of this bill and encouraged the senators to allow them to trade vodka not only on Sundays but also on holidays. Today you can get drunk and thus celebrate various Polish holidays, including national ones. I saw the vodka in the national Christmas party, there were queues in front of the liquor stores. And this is done at a time when the number of risks due to alcohol and other drugs is increasing. The government on the occasion of the next bill will squeal, as he fights alcoholism, and today your ministers, contrary to the position of ordinary people and churches, say: let the booze pour, let people die in this Poland! Don't let these people come to trade on Sundays or they'll die. Yeah, 800 people die in car accidents, probably another one on the sidewalks and other places. This is a government policy that puts dignity first, Senator. It's about the dignity of those people who die from other people's drunkenness. So I can't support it. What do I suggest? I suggest that in this bill Although it would be best if it was customary for those who want to buy and for those who go to church or who do not go to church. That's why I propose all Sundays off, ban on trading on Sundays, except for small shops that could only work on Sundays until 1 p.m. I also suggest that Sundays and holidays be a total ban on sales... You can buy it earlier, it'll taste better. I also propose to allow local governments, because of their impact on identity building, through various kinds of events... It's not about parties, because parties are for drunks, it's about events. I propose that the local authorities be able, after consulting the trade unions, to organize... or actually allow commercial services... [[Mr. Senator, 10 minutes.]] Yeah, I know you're having these events. Due to the commercial handling of these important events, in particular... Senator, I know you're talking about World Youth Day. And the trade was working then. The question is, was it legal or not? And if there's gonna be another World Youth Day... God would give, for example. In Gdańsk there was an Expo, he would also give Jurek Owsiak and others to run various national actions. And it would be good if, at that time, for these self-sacrificing people working for human values, there was work, there was a service opportunity. And that's why I'm talking with some anger. It's true, with embarrassment. It's also true, but first of all I express the expectation that you will change your position and start believing in only one mother. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u311	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u312	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The law on tightening trade rules on Sunday is a great example of what monsters come out of a combination of ideology and pragmatism. The ideological source is that a man is entitled to work-free Sundays. This idea in our cultural circle comes directly from the Catholic religion, which I don't think there is any discussion about. However, I have the impression that today's debate in the Senate confirms that, apart from ideology, it is religion, actually not so much religion as the Catholic Church. 'Cause it's two different things. It has a significant impact on the creation of this law. And on this issue, I'd like to stop for a moment. First of all, I would like to say that the creation of the law under the commandment to holy day does not make any sense from a religious point of view. This is what the teaching of the Catholic Church speaks of, which is what the church hierarchs speak of. Pope Francis talked about it, our sleep talked about it. Pope, St. John Paul II, even the documents of the Second Vatican Council speak of this. There is a document, a declaration of religious freedom, which defends the Church from introducing religious principles as an idea imposed by law. I recommend a reading of Sunday, an online edition, where is the article Fr. Jarosław Grabowski, who is writing about this declaration of religious freedom. The Second Vatican Council in the Declaration of Religious Freedom clearly opposes this temptation and all forms of coercion in religious matters. He reminds us that a man with his personal dignity can successfully pursue God only in a free way. The fact that man will not be able to work on Sunday will not bring him closer to God in any way. For the Church, they do not have the value of a religious attitude enforced by legal coercion. Faith and doing good only make sense if they are practiced in freedom. In October of this year, Pope Francis made it clear that the pursuit of imposing religious beliefs as a legal order is a serious disease of our time. For the record, the 7-day week doesn't come from religion at all. He was born in Mesopotamia, among astrologers. At first, it was based on star observations, and only later it became part of various religious orders, among others. Catholic. I am talking about this because I often feel that some politicians are involved in creating laws with such religious anointing as if they believed that this would give them a pass to heaven. Well, I have doubts that this is an effective way to get to St. Peter. This does not change the fact, High Senate, that the law should protect people from work on Christmas days, and that Sundays are also recognised in Christmas days. It's just that you have to be pragmatist. This means that by creating a law, we need to anticipate its effects, useful or harmful. And let's look from this perspective at a law that tightens up trade rules on Sunday. From a pragmatic point of view, this is simply a harmful boob. First of all, we deal with one sphere of life, trade. We recognise that we can prohibit trade, but we allow work in factories, in communication, in tourism, in culture, in health care, although not everyone who works in these industries is doing the kind of work that is necessary for our functioning, for our life. And the trade sphere itself covered by this law is so full of gaps that the fundamental principle of law, which should be universality, is missing. And it is also that the Minister has repeatedly confirmed here, showing the weaknesses of this law, which allow for various interpretations of it. The list of exemptions is so long that it is estimated that the Act will not cover 90% commercial establishments. So what is the point of adopting a law that covers every tenth of the addressee? You have to ask why you're shutting down. First of all, let us be aware that people do not want us to give them free from shopping on Sundays. They don't want to be saints or they don't want to be Pharisees who say different things and do different things. They're gonna go shopping anyway. Why aren't we shutting down the gas station? Because the sovereign wouldn't agree to that. It's not a problem for people to fill their cars on Saturdays or not to drive them on Sundays, but try to tell people. There are 14 million cars in Poland. Those who count on the sovereign would soon be disappointed. Nor do we close seaports, inland ports, intermodal ports, because they operate in a global network. More and more Polish ports operate globally and ship owners will not wait until Monday for unloading. The operation of the ship is too expensive, so instead of going to Gdansk, they would go to Hamburg. [[Exactly.]] Our ports would fall. All the ports would die if we closed them on Sundays, and this awareness causes these different shut-offs. So we introduce an apparent law, acting selectively. In my mind, only to meet ideological commitments to different environments But for fear and pragmatic reasons, we limit its action to even caricatureal dimensions. That's why I'm not going to vote for this bill because it's going to be a total mess and a lot of tricks to get past this bill. Today, a few examples of such tricks have been given, and I will not repeat them. I would like to share with you two more reflections. I've got a book at home that I've been reading... She's from 1975. She was supposed to show the world in the 21st century. And you know what that book says? That people will work three days a week and the main problem of humanity I'm talking about this advanced civilization, so-called. the western will find a form of occupation for people for the remaining 4 days. This is how the future was seen in the 21st century in the 1970's. Look how different this is from the climate we live in. Second reflection 2 centuries ahead. Ladies and gentlemen, two years ago, I was invited to a project. The publisher from Cracow offered me to write one chapter in the book The Bridge over time. Letters to the great-grandson. This book was supposed to be addressed to a great-great-grandson who will read it in 200 years. There were no assumptions as to what would be in this book. I wrote about the fact that I live in times where man's work replaces automatics, machines, different technologies, and humanity has less and less time for itself, more and more working. Ladies and gentlemen, this generally disappoints me. I'd like to live to see the time of this weekend civilization that Senator Rulewski was talking about. Ladies and gentlemen, when I listen to our new Prime Minister Morawiecki, who wants to Christianize Poland, I would like to suggest that our Prime Minister take this challenge: to convince Europe and the whole civilized northern and western world to slow down with progress, with race, with competition, so that this global world can master and give more time to people. Because such projects are possible, but only in a zone that is covered by this global system. On a national scale and this awareness of the legislator, the drafter of this law has If we introduce Sundays free in our still-unrich country, we'll be heading towards the fall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u313	Mr. Senator, thank you very much. Senator Chudowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u314	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start with an example from last year. After Christmas, there was a patient I knew in the doctor's office. I said, how was Christmas, Christmas Eve? And she says, "Doc, what's Christmas Eve?" By 8:00 p.m. on Christmas Eve, I worked at the store. In the hypermarket There were customers to the end, and then we had to clean up. Knowing that it would be so, I sent my children and my husband to my mother-in-law, and I returned home at 11:00 p.m., and I was so tired that without washing, I went to bed and slept until 12:00 p.m. on the first day of Christmas, and on the second day the world had to go to work again. In the discussion... Maybe not in the discussion, it's still going on. But in the questions I was very surprised to hear about the fragmentation of the problem, as if we had forgotten that at the request of the social side, as a result of signatures, this battle has been going on for many years at the request of the NSZZ. It's not a case. Only our two years of government. "Solidarity fights for Sundays free and has been called upon for at least 7 years. And it's about time we took the side of the workers. One of the lawyers at the conference held in February 2013 at the University of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński said this: Sunday is a common good and time for this common good to be guaranteed by law for all. This wasn't the first conference... The first conference I attended and co-organized was a conference organized by the committee led by Senator Sewerinski. She was held in the Senate in January 2013. This conference was also organised thanks to Senator Rulewski. Law and Justice did not have a majority on the committee, and there was resistance, opposition to the organisation of such a conference. Mr. Marshal, I will point this out to you, but the Senate Bureau did not agree to hold such a conference in a different manner than through a committee. There was a risk that it wouldn't go away on the committee because there wasn't a majority there, but we risked it. The worst opponents of free Sundays on that day did not appear at the committee meeting, and the senator took our side and this conference could be held in the Senate. This conference was attended by both priests and lawyers. This conference presented the first experience of the Legnica Free Sunday Celebration Association, which was established in Legnica in 2012, and is very popular among people interested in this topic. At this conference, apart from professors, priests, philosophers... There was a Fr. Bogusław Drożdz, was Fr. Bogusław Wolański, but also Prof. Łukasz Pisarczyk from the University of Warsaw, who presented what are the codes for Sundays free of trade. Until today... In fact, our labour code allows Sundays to be free, only that no one enforces it and no one punishes employers who exploit their abilities to employees. This law is simply not enforced. Whether there will be losses... It can only be said by those who are not interested in the subject and who do not know the research. In all countries where Sundays were introduced free of trade, only during the first weeks saw a decrease in turnover or profits of shops. Then people went into a different rhythm and those turns even surpassed... Because people were wrestling, completely unnecessary, shopping on Friday or Saturday. So this argument about loss of profits and poverty is not defended. Mr. Senator Wright, you're such a thesis, but maybe I misunderstood... If a remedy or a way to fill people's time on days off from work is shopping, it's terrible. It's a terrible vision. I've never been shopping on Sundays... [[Stopping progress...]] What progress? A slave doesn't have an employee. [[Sure.]] In the book, I can make it available if any of you are interested. - How to celebrate Sunday? - There are statements of different people... I was also asked to comment, knowing that I am an employer in my region, maybe for a small number of people, but still. As an employer, do not force people to work on Sunday at the expense of their relationship with God, the family, the community in which they live. I think that in a higher House, in which almost every senator ends his oath with words, so help me God, we cannot ignore the issue of the right to celebrate Sundays according to our commandments. I'll quote it to sound smoother, a few words from my speech. Do not force people to work on Sundays and religious holidays or public holidays legally free of work is merely fulfilling the letter of law and compliance by employers with the Labour Code. This is an employer's primary obligation to employees. Breaking that law should be punished. But how to enforce these rights when so many so-called. employers, and in fact dorobkiewicz people wishing to enrich themselves at an express rate, for nothing has a labour code and a sense of duty? Workers exploited and insecure do not complain, do not protest. Often, too, because they do not know their rights. Protection and assistance could be given to trade unions, but those who fear losing their jobs do not assume. The agreement to work on holidays and Sundays results, unfortunately, also from this sad fact that for many workers Sundays and holidays have ceased to have a sacral dimension, but we leave it to everyone to be considered. I would like it to be 2020, when all Sundays are off work. I would like the shops to be closed at 1 p.m. on Christmas Eve, if it isn't Sunday, only a regular day, similarly on Good Friday and Great Saturday, so that you can participate in religious life if you have such a need and want to fulfill your Christianity according to the commandments of God. As an employer, I do so. And in the end, maybe this is the case. Marshal Borusewicz said in his speech when discussing the previous law that we should use God's wisdom. Lord Marshal, the wisdom of God, the fourth commandment: remember that you should holy day. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u315	Thank you very much. Senator Wczyła, I understand, ad vocem. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u316	Senator, you certainly didn't understand me. I'm in favour of putting the world in such a way that people have a lot more time. This is the first case. I'm a huge supporter. I'll let you read that book where I wrote a chapter on it. And the other thing. Mrs. Senator, referring not to himself, but to the Church's council documents, the Pope's statements, the Church's social science, and I am a graduate of this direction... [[Mr. Senator, this is polemic.]] I'm just gonna say you can't practice religion by creating law, legal coercion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u317	Mr. Senator... [[Voice from the room: Szymanski.]] Senator Szymanski. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't. Mr. Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u318	Mr. Marshal! Tall and Few Senate! When the discussion begins about Sundays, there are arguments from very different drawers. There is, for example. Economic drawer. From the economic drawer, the argument is that turnover will fall, profits will fall, and when profits fall, taxes will fall, and the budget will have less money. There is also a social drawer: there will be dismissals, people will be unemployed, and in any case they will be in a more difficult situation. I would like to say right away that as far as this second argument is concerned, I was studying this subject a little bit, everything depends on the economic situation, on the economic situation. If we had at the moment 12.13% unemployment, that would indeed be a problem. Actually, I do not think that the entry into force of this principle is currently causing any employment problems, nor do I think it will cause any significant problems in terms of falling budget revenues. I do not think that in these categories we need to consider this subject at all. However, we need to look at this completely different. I have to say, in all the questions I've had and the voices, I haven't noticed. I also refer here to the last speech by Senator Chudowska You'll be celebrating the holy day. But there's a whole bunch of areas where people work on Sundays. Right? And not just in constant motion. No. He works, for example. catering, the work of cinemas, theatres, museums, restaurants, railways, zoos, urban transport facilities, radio and television, health... I think it's gonna turn out there's probably a few million people working on Sundays. Right? So it can't be done, in short, so that on Sunday nobody just works. The question is only what are the criteria, that is, where it is permanent and where it is not necessary. Right? And now it's gone to trade. It's been traded because trade, as I understand it, isn't necessary. And today, of course, it's two Sundays, but it's supposed to be all of them. So, ladies and gentlemen, it all depends on what kind of industry we're talking about in this trade. Because it's important to remember that trade is mostly for people. This is, however, a kind of service. She stood up because people needed it. So is the snuff for the nose, or is the nose for the snuff? Well, trade is for people. If people are comfortable to go on Sundays, they must be allowed to do so. The question is, what can they do without? So, indeed, there is a general exchange of foods of various kinds. It is right to say: Finally, I can buy sugar or butter on Saturday, Friday, Thursday, etc. Indeed, that is not a problem. I agree. But we have industries where it takes time to buy goods. These are sectors such as apartment equipment, furniture, carpets, construction products, household appliances and RTVs, but also other long-term goods. Let's say from my point of view, e.g. Shoes or suits. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm watching my friends as well. If they're gonna go, let's just say, for the rug, it's definitely not a day's work. Definitely not. It's Saturday and Sunday. These are the days it's done. She's going with her wife, her husband, sometimes her family. If this is the equipment of the apartment, then you go with the kids. It's not just spending time in a gallery, it's just that you have to satisfy normal needs. And now, if these stores close on Sundays, this movement will concentrate on Saturday, or Friday, but already in the late evenings. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been buying a carpet home lately. I went to a store like this. I was just there, I don't know, Saturday or Sunday. I don't remember anymore. Anyway, there were a few salesmen, they served a few people. The salesman served me for 40 minutes because I had to watch, he had to develop, I had to measure, I had to come after that, and my wife said it wasn't that, it was that... I already wanted to leave this store, but my wife didn't. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I've had 40 minutes of service from that salesman. And so are the others. Others are the same, especially if they were with their wives. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And what we're trying to do is to have a family... right? Family. So what? And there was a line behind us, they were already waiting, they were already nervous that it took them so long. And now let's lock them up on Sunday and throw them all in on Saturday. It's inhuman. And these vendors are gonna get tired, and they're gonna start fighting, just, you know, picking up goods, fighting, and so on. Therefore, when I heard about this closing of shops, I thought to myself: the grocery will not happen, please go ahead, the grocery even 4 Sundays can be closed. Anybody wants to buy a muffin, they'll go to the gas station. [[You don't know my wife.]] Well, sir, there are exceptions, but I'm talking about the average... He's gonna go to the gas station and just buy it there. Whether he goes to the bakery where the owner serves. That's not a problem at all. So it's food. Yeah. But as far as the others are concerned, you would have to be very careful about it, but it's completely different to solve it. And when you do it that way, it just causes people to suffer. Well, you want to do it, then do it, it'll be your responsibility just for it, and people will thank you, just like they thanked you in Hungary. There are examples of other countries where they close up and so on. Of course, these are rich countries to make it clear. [[But they're closing.]] Yes, sir. Only, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know if you know, but Poles are the second most busy country in Europe. [[Exactly.]] According to Eurostat, we work 4 hours a week longer than the French and 6 hours longer than Germany. [[And that's why the accidents happened.]] And now it is. 6 hours longer than Germany means about an hour longer a day, a little more than an hour longer a day. Plus driving trouble, etc. So we're, uh, moving this trade... Because that's where it came from, isn't it? Senator Rulewski said so. The money pool is the same, she has to be spent. First of all, it doesn't have to be, but it doesn't matter now, so let's assume it will be. [[Voice from the room: This will have to be...]] So it's gonna be released in six days, right? Well, there's definitely gonna be an attempt on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday... But that's when people work longer. Therefore, it will focus on Saturday anyway. When we compare ourselves with other countries, we have to consider things that are different in our country. Well, we're just working longer. We'll probably be working a little shorter someday, and then please be kind. But for now, we've been working longer. Now... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]] [[Time's up.]] Definitely. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[How fast it's going...]] [[Working time...]] It's gone awfully fast... Well, I'll have five more minutes, then I'll tell the rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u319	You have a voice, Senator Florek. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u320	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A very complicated bill, those exemptions that are in this bill... But it will enter into force without amendments, it is no longer in doubt, because the Sejm is ending its deliberations and we are not voting until tomorrow, so there is no possibility, there will be no possibility this year, i.e. the law will probably enter into force without amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, I also believe that Sunday is a special day and that it should, as far as possible, be a day off from work. I agree with that. Only when can it be introduced? I think in our culture it would be well received. It's either all Sundays should be working, or it's all free. And then there wouldn't be a problem with this bill, which is so complicated that as soon as it comes into force, we'll hear what the bypasses are, what the gates are, what we're going to have to change, what we're going to need to improve, and so on. So the simplest way is either all Sundays are working, or all Sundays are free. Just to figure it out, you have to say so, one at a time... It must also be taken into account that there are competitions where people work all day, also on Sundays, e.g.: health care, guards, police, I don't know, people in tourism... After all, in some factories for technological reasons, there are different people working, not to mention farmers. Those who perform these professions work every Sunday. After the transition period, after 1989... and I'll remind you what it was like, at the end... In fact, we're in such a group that I'm sure almost everyone remembers what it was like back then. We remember the cards, we remember what was on the shelves. I've still saved the gas slips just in case, which means if something happens, I still have the cards. And that's how it looked. And then there was a change. And we started to grow more and more beautifully and more and more shops were created. At some point, large shopping galleries began to be built, and then in these galleries, as in the West, there were already known brands, etc. And that fascinated us. It's not like the Germans have had this for many, many years and they don't have to go shopping on Sundays. They don't have to. They do it in a week. But they work there less, as Senator Borowski said, and it's a little different from us. But we got a little saggy and people started walking... That's not good enough. Now the budget situation is good enough that there is a lot of money on the market. Well, GDP is also due to the fact that domestic demand is at the moment considerable. Well, 500+ wasn't meaningless either. Sometimes I see people coming... And when do they go shopping? They walk on Sundays, I see them walking on Sundays... When I get out of church on Sunday, I see a bunch of people coming right away... everyone's going. 'Cause there's a big market next door. Straight to this market on Sunday, straight from the church. Well, that's the habit. Is it possible to change people like that right away and say, "Well, dears, no..." And that's why this solution I'm talking about to close all the stores on Sunday would be the best easy solution, but unfortunately it's not real today. Maybe 10 years from now, it'll be real. What's that? If there's something we want to do in this direction, it's the best we can do. It's gradually. Sure, if it was this one Sunday... if it were so gradual, one at a time... But that would be hard, too. This is not an easy solution. And now, of course, the question is what the consequences will be. Well, there's probably gonna be some consequences. There's probably gonna be some effects on the labour market, like I said... So it's about 14%. And next year it's going to be 7%. But given the situation... If the labour market situation is very favourable, the unemployment rate is relatively low... Besides, she's been falling for many, many years, she's been falling for 15 years. So it's not like just today's unemployment rate is falling, she's still falling. But right now, there's a particularly favorable situation. There's... there's a pretty high GDP all over the world, so there's no concern about that, all the more so that this year there's gonna be a lot of pensioners, 'cause I think 370,380 thousand people are gonna retire right now, those who have returned. So they're gonna slow down... So that in a moment there will be a problem with employment in Poland. There's already a problem today. Fortunately, we're still a little help from the East, but we don't know how long that's gonna be. There's gonna be a problem. Which means nothing big is going to happen in this respect. Of course, some small businesses, which I was talking about, if they don't have rentals in galleries, they're gonna have trouble, because galleries are probably not gonna be opened for a few small shops. So this probably also applies to our little native entrepreneurs. And now the question is: what other options could be found? Above all, there were proposals to make changes to the labour code. It would be a solution to ensure, at this stage, that everyone is guaranteed e.g. at least 2 Sundays off. All the more reason that As we know, there are plenty of people willing to work these days. That students some needing for their own expenses 'Cause not everyone has the possibility that they don't have to work. They take advantage of this possibility and work. I'm sure they'll be looking for another place, maybe in service somewhere, maybe some of them will succeed, but it'll be a problem for a group. So you could look for a solution. There were proposals to make changes to the labour code. I know this one bill is probably in the freezer right now. And, to recap, it's not gonna be easy. Unfortunately, the bill has so many exemptions, so many possibilities, so many gaps... I gave an example that when I drove my car to this meeting, I saw that a large object was being built near the gas station, and it was raw, from the records. Very close, five, ten meters... I guess you just have to make the passage from the station to make it connected. So you can see that some of us are already preparing for these changes. Well, not to mention Internet commerce, which will certainly be increased, etc. So there are some bypasses. To sum up, the best solution is either all Sundays free, or all working, because it was easy, and using other methods to actually guarantee people... And right now there are opportunities because there is a good situation in the labour market. Or maybe try a little step, which means maybe one Saturday, then the other, the third, break it down in time. 'Cause I'm pretty sure we're gonna get to that. But we're catching up, and we can't tell people, darlings, from March 1st, all these stores will be closed on Sundays, because they've gotten used to it, the more that there are cinemas, there are restaurants and others. This is often very related, so this functionality is a bit combined. Then it won't work. I'm sure in ten years' time, we'll be looking at things differently, too, and there'll be a situation where we can afford to have all Sundays off without a problem. Of course not for everyone, because as I said There's a competition where you can't do that. Every farmer has to work because there's no way out. But it's gonna be better. So, to recap, ladies and gentlemen, I'm not making any amendments, because I'm pretty sure that no amendments will pass. [[They'll pass.]] The senator tells me they'll pass, but I have an opinion on it. However, I am convinced that there will be an amendment soon and we will have to seal this system in some way, improve it. But I'm sure there's no other way, because at this stage where we're already here today, it's... it's definitely gonna come into force. Thank you. [[There are 20 amendments that were voted out at the committee meeting...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u321	You have a voice, Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u322	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I made an amendment with Senator Kleina, and I think I made an amendment with Augustine. I hope that the High Commission, with Senator Stanisław Rooster at the head, will lean on it. Maybe expand from 80 m2 to 85 m2 commercial space. Maybe he'll add one more out, because since it's 25, as it turns out, what I counted so quickly, or maybe something has changed in the meantime. Well, maybe there's something else. But I'd like to congratulate my colleague, Jurk. Well, you could say that. To expose the creation of law under the applause of the Church or under religious law, because that's what it comes down to. When we discussed here earlier, when we asked questions, it always appeared somewhere in the context of this Church, but I did not hear that the Church was one of the 25 entities excluded from the sale ban. And the Church also sells things: church newspapers, candles and other things. But I think it's time to make such an amendment at the committee meeting... [[I don't think you're going to church.]] ...if you can. Excellent speech by Senator Flork. I think this is something that needs to be... We of this democracy, and above all capitalism, are just learning. We are a young country that has had such freedom for 27 years and has, in fact, for several years as far as the economy is concerned, open borders. Putting Norway or the other countries that you mentioned here, Senator rapporteur, Senator Stanisławek, maybe it's cool, but I wouldn't exactly agree with that, although it's probably our dream to come to the same standard of living as it is in the Scandinavian countries or in the highly developed countries of the European Union. We need time. We've been aspiration to the opportunities offered by the big shopping malls... When a few months ago we were debating a tax that was supposed to cover the big trading networks... Although I am very surprised at why the new power has gone after these huge commercial networks, because it is not a perversion, it is nothing that works against Poles. And now we have another bill. You have to call things by name; I've asked them many times today, but no one has answered. A little under the big trading networks, because if they want to, they're gonna skip the ban, and if they don't, they're gonna do it anyway. I think it's gonna cost the workers the most because, contrary to what everyone's saying here, no one's dragging anyone into the store to work today. Of course, this is hard work, but not as hard as it was 10 years ago, because many things have been normalized, many technical solutions have been introduced. Today we have brands almost unattended. Minister, you're gonna go to Green Mountain to Tesco, you're gonna buy the products, you're gonna go to the cashier's office, you're gonna scan the products there, you're gonna pay with a card or cash, and you're gonna walk out. And you're not really gonna have any contact with a man. Perhaps this is the future of commercial networks, the future of big markets. It's already happening today, because these machines, these robots... The technique is moving forward. Trade will move to the Internet sooner or later, and we're already buying a dozen things online today. Civilization goes so far that today we don't have to go to the store, to Ladybug or to Lidle to... I name these names because it's known that these shops are usually about. So it's not about advertising, because I don't have any of those holdings or people working there with my family. Today you can go to Ladybug's website, order groceries and bring them to you. At least in Green Mountain Anything you want. Will it work on Sunday? I don't know. There's talk of something like a shopping window. Of course, the store will be closed, but thanks to the internet, through some special order, you will be able to buy something and it will be delivered. It was said here today that today shopping malls have become an attraction for families, for those who come... Because shopping malls are usually located either on the outskirts of big cities or in big cities themselves. There are no big shops, there are no chains of these shops in smaller towns or villages. So it's kind of a modern attraction. Whole families go to these big cities, go to these big shopping malls, and not only do shopping there, but most of all they spend time there, because there's a cinema, there's a restaurant there. A lot of families are moving... and more and more are going to a restaurant right now. It is becoming more and more fashionable what we have in the West, that in the evenings or Sunday dinners we are going to a restaurant. So it's not just a purely shopping dimension... It's actually about spending time together. In such a gallery you can shop, eat well, go to the movies, I don't know, go to a hairdresser's shop, take advantage of many other services that are there. I've been giving an example of disabling these objects... That's what the Minister was talking about, and it's in the bill. We won't be able to get the station shut down in Poznan... I'm not a cog, but I go that way a lot. And I even like it; someone may have different tastes, but this station is very functional. First of all, it connects two zones, the PKP zone and the public transport area, the PKS area, and I think there are taxis and maybe some private buses that transport residents. There's a lot of people in there. And this is the only transition from one side to the other. It's hard to keep this whole complex closed today. I do not imagine that the Golden Terraces and all that is within the Central Station, so McDonalds, and all that is in there, suddenly close this bill, because it is not acceptable. And neither travelers nor other people will forgive that. They really have their own will today, and they don't want to be addicted to one or the other minister ordering us to go here on Sunday, not go there or do it, not do something else. I would like us as parliamentarians and, above all, as a government not to make people happy by force. Today, with these laws, we want to make people happy, and we can't do that. People have their own will, they can do whatever they want, we live in a free country. So don't tell them not to. It was said that Germany was not allowed to trade on Sunday. All you have to do is go to Berlin to see that all shopping facilities are open in Berlin on the main street. The largest, prestigious KaDeWe store is open. Peek and Cloppenburg is open. Of course, it's said that the land is there... We've made the right amendment. Give me a chance... Today we have local governments, we have sejmics, so let the local governments decide in their small homelands whether to open markets or not to open drugstores or not to open or close gas stations. After all, today is not a problem to fill up on Saturday, Thursday, so there is no need for fuel stations to be constantly opened. I mean, it's... [[Don't suggest it, or they'll buy it.]] Well, I don't think the ministry will. I mentioned the students. An example is my son, who, along with his colleagues on Sunday or Saturday, earns as a student, taking all kinds of jobs or unloading, or... now they have some Christmas jobs. It's a job well paid, young people take it. And we're forgetting that, too, and there's not gonna be a job in a minute. Coming here to the Senate meeting, Minister, I joined the shopping gallery on the square of the Three Crosses. I don't remember her name. I'm not gonna name her. I'm talking to a lady who knows me, and she's saying to me, is it true that today we're pushing the trade ban bill on Sunday? I say I don't know if we're pushing, but I'm sure it'll be discussed. [[Time's up.]] I hope that the Ministry may be able to withdraw it in time. However... [[He can't back out.]] [[Time's up, Senator.]] Please, the last sentence. And imagine. And no one's moved that either. That this person working on Sunday may be happy to come to work on Sunday. He says to me like this: Mr. Robert, I can choose any other 2 days off. If I take Monday and Tuesday off this Sunday, this Monday and Tuesday, I'll do whatever I want. And if I work eight hours on Monday, I come home at 9:00 a.m. and I come home at 5:00 p.m. And then I don't have time for anything anymore. I'm not going out to the store anymore because I've got cooking, cleaning, kids on my mind, so that leaves me with a solution. And you're gonna take that away from me? This really will not be in line with what some have worked out over the years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u323	Senator Rooster. [[Stasio, save me.]] [[We're saving...]] [[Voice from the room: It's about to be...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u324	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! I am very surprised to hear this discussion, and I wonder what this true tolerance is about, Mr. Senator Dowhan. Yeah, I'm Catholic, I'm a practicing Catholic. [[Nobody...]] I'm proud to be Catholic and have a Decalogue. I've never attacked other people's confessions, ever. And that I speak loudly and say that the fourth commandment is: honor the holy day... Let me put it this way: this is Senator Wczylo... [[Voice from the room: Accurate.]] Yes. ...attacks the Church. And I'm gonna tell you that you're totally wrong, and I'm gonna prove it to you right away. This postulate was one of 21 postulates in Gdańsk Shipyard, where people of Solidarity gave their lives. But then we fought for Saturdays off. Because we all scream, but under communist rule, all Sundays were free. All Sundays were free. [[Voice from the room: Because there was no trade.]] But I'm sorry, Mr. and Mrs. Dear Marshal, I didn't interrupt, you know... [[Voice from the room: Ad vocem pan...]] Politely, you know how you performed, I listened. And, Mr and Mrs Dear, we must also know that this was a citizens' project under which 500,000 citizens signed. Therefore, all of us today, the NSZZ.Solidarity, who collected these signatures so that we could push aside. Here's what I'm gonna say: Mr. Marshal Borowski also said that he and his wife were shopping. We clearly say that that's why we want all Sundays to be free so that Sundays can be for the family. Let me put it this way: I completely agree that this law is impenetrable. And I am in favour of a very tight law, and we at the committee's meeting asked that there actually be a total ban on trade on Sunday. That's how we all talk about Germany beautifully. Please read the supermarkets wanted to bypass the regulations and decided that they would trade in devoutisms. He immediately received such a powerful punishment that he no longer thought about it. We're saying that... ladies and gentlemen, what kind of country is Austria? After all, also the country of the European Union, in fact there are Sundays free. Sundays are free in Sweden. These are Sundays for the family. Because there are two different views here. We're looking at it, I'm looking at it personally, so Sunday is free for the family. Free for the family. So if I'm gonna buy something, I'm gonna go with my wife on Saturday, Friday, and I'm gonna buy it, and I don't have to go on Sunday. Senator Duda asks me: What does it look like in the Guardians? Well, it looks like we're going to church, and no one comes to shops on Sundays. And although there are these little shops, they don't actually have a deal, because we don't, Dear Lords, to the shops. You've said beautifully about the art. 151 of the Labour Code. After all, it was clear that Sundays and holidays were free from work. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the Senators of the PO speaking... But, ladies and gentlemen, have any of you read the concordat? This is a contract between the Church and the state. There it is written, Dear Lords: all Sundays free of work. Because here was the question of Senator Rulewski, who asked what was the agreement between the Church and the state. I've heard many times, my dear fellows, not only... Because you say "Catholic." And I say Christians. I heard the Christian archbishops say clearly that they want Sunday to be free for the family. Why did I make these amendments that maybe 80 m2... Yeah, Dear Lords, because it can't be that way, for example. Auchan or Tesco are closed in Warsaw or in Cracow, and there is trade at the railway station, because it is the railway station that is communication, is simply disabled and trade can take place. And that's why I was introducing... He's actually in Austria. In Austria, there can be up to 80 m2 trade and there can be no trade on more than 80 m2 at railway or bus stations. A similar situation was... 'Cause you can trade, bakeries can sell, cookies, ice cream parlors. That's why we introduced it to be more specific. Because, as the Senator rapporteur said, then the whole Lidle, the Ladybugs, would be active, because they actually have bread baking. And that would be the way it would be, Dear Sirs. I completely agree with Senator Rulewski and supported him on alcohol, I strongly supported him on alcohol trade, alcohol sales. Because, my dears, if we want to raise a healthy society... Dear Lords, even if someone wants to drink, they can buy alcohol on Friday and they can actually have it on Saturday. And, ladies and gentlemen, let me say this because I'm not ashamed of it. Yeah, I've been to Jasna Góra many times, where I actually... Well, tell me, what's the difference between one Sunday and another Sunday? Nothing. I think all Sundays should be free, all Sundays should be for the family. And anybody can have a different opinion. Because we refer to students. You were right to ask Marshal Borusewicz. After all, in Poland there are a small number of students who are employed in large-area shops. In France, Sundays were free from 1907 to 2015. Now, in fact, almost 80% of students are employed in these large-area shops. And as I say, here really are the people of Solidarity, in the 1980s there was this fight for free Saturdays, and actually Sundays were free at that time. Everyone here says there was nothing at the time. But then the solidarity was clear... And as I say, I bow in front of the people with the Solidarity forehead, because in fact, at that time there was only continuous traffic disabled: health care, transport, police and some factories in which the large furnace processes could not be extinguished. And, Dear Lords, really without emotion, without emotion, let's really respect everyone. My view is definitely that, everyone knows what my view is. I am not ashamed of this and I am clear: I am in favour of every Sunday being free, and the law should be the law. I'd really do a work code, you'd only be able to revise the work code. Because we're talking about a trade ban on Sundays and holidays in this project, and there's a ban on work in the labour code. And that's where I'd go. But you can't blame the government, because it's a project, as I said, of citizens' 500 thousand signatures collected. And let's respect each other, I respect everyone, I listen, because someone has a different view of the matter, and I have a different view of the matter. And, ladies and gentlemen, let me say this: totally, 100% I agree with Senator Rulewski, with Senator Chudowska... [[What about me?]] No, I don't agree with you at all. I'm really not gonna agree because... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Time's up.]] Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, I'm almost done. One lesson must be learned: to respect others for their views and to listen to their views. And not to make me a great senator, and another one, as a Catholic, is to be no longer known who. Yes, I am Catholic, the Decalogue is sacred to me, and the holy day must be sanctified. And that's sacred to me. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u325	You have a voice, Senator Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u326	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I went to Mr. Rajski and his wife before this topic today. This is a businessman who's been running large-area stores for 18 years. I went there specifically to talk to him and find out how he looks at all of this in the context of those rules that are supposed to come in, what is his view of it from an economic point of view. We talked about many different aspects. Why him? Because it's you... because these people have been trading for 18 years, this business. And for 18 years, as he told me, his fundamental principle is And it's written in stores; everyone sees it coming into the store. That on the holy days is closed. And what does it turn out to be? He told me they were developing peacefully. This year, two more stores open, and they've got 11. They're hiring about 360 employees, and there's a lot of people willing to work. They don't have any work on Sunday. They are very believers and this is their basic motive. And what does it turn out to be? He's on the Leviathan network and in Małopolska, because I'm talking about Małopolska, he's in second place when it comes to the number of stores of this network. It's growing, the trade is growing very much on Saturday and Sunday. A lot of people get used to the fact that... [[Friday and Saturday.]] Excuse me, Friday and Saturday. Yes, thank you. Friday and Saturday. He said the average salary of the employees of the entire network was the highest on him. He also said that the employees are very happy because they can spend time at home with their children. Kids go to school every week, of course. He said what would happen if these workers went to work on Sunday and the kids stayed, I'd say, self-pas. He also said that he also hires such unbelievers, atheists, and they thank him... They don't go to church, they just celebrate the way they want, but they say, "Thank you, because we have children and we can spend time with them on Sunday." In this context and in the light of this discussion, I would like to stress that the atheist can also enjoy it, because he also wants to celebrate and feels that he is celebrating. And that in a different way He doesn't go to the temple, but he has his way of celebrating. That's his business. He said that this principle is absolutely applied and developed, cares about the goods, people come to him... These are the districts of Suski, Wadowicki, Nowotarski, it is in this area. I think here... We're talking about people going shopping on Sunday because they have to do these shopping because they're used to it. Excuse me, but what about those who work on Sundays? I think it's about them. Like Mr Duda, President of the Solidarity Group, he said, this is not a restriction on trade on Sunday, it is a restriction on employment on Sunday. The point is to respect this man and make sure he has time to rest. Mr.Rajski emphasized very much that he sees how rested workers are after this free Sunday, how they come to work on Monday or Tuesday, and how they work. They're loaded with energy because they're rested because they're celebrating. I think this celebration is very important and that man is worthy to celebrate. Right? I guess that's what this is all about. And now... for those who say that shopping on Sunday must do that, that's what I have to offer. Let their daughter, their wife, the closest person sit in this store on Sunday, and then let them take their granddaughter or eventually... let them walk with him around this big store and show him: listen, there your mommy works, let's bow down to her; and there your grandmother is. Oh, I think that's where you'd be, mate Dowhan, Dear Senator, otherwise you thought if your spouse were sitting on the register right then... [[Voice from the room: I'd be cool.]] ...if the daughter were sitting down Oh, then it would have been different. Because it's sending someone so well, isn't it? But let's send our own. But, ladies and gentlemen, there is also a matter of other professions. Well, simple, even when you look at a farmer or my mom as a housewife... Well, she used to work on Sundays because dinner had to be done or something, but she never allowed other work to be done on Sundays. I was looking at the farmers working. Such a farmer watered the horse, did what had to be done, served the water, but never went to the field plow on Sunday. So he had a brilliant sense that what is to be done must be done, and yet the remaining hours must be celebrated. Celebrate and... I'm gonna call in a simple motto that just reminded me of how I talked to the Paradise States. My mother always told us from childhood and there were 5 brothers that 2 roads lead to poverty: stealing and working on Sunday. She was a simple woman, a 7th grade elementary school, but she had that wisdom. She wasn't from the Warsaw salons, Mr. Senator, but... [[I agree with the first one.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...but it's me... [[If I count how many shifts I had on Sundays, then...]] But, sir, of course, there are jobs... And my mom worked, too. To make it interesting, my mom worked at a health center in the delivery room and was on 24-hour shifts and in many cases she fell out on Sundays. And it was normal, she had the day off... But it's different if she had to. There are jobs that need to be done, and those that don't need to be respected... And that's why here, let's say, I would be fully in favour of supporting the 4th Sunday off, absolutely. Because it's just a little... Now 2 Sundays, then 2... I'm a little surprised that a project like this came out of the ministry. I think we should have made it clear here. Because it's about respect for every man, every family. If anyone can celebrate, I think it's your job to create conditions for him. And finally: So much and so much existence the nation has, how much and how it is able to respect man. This is Cyprian Kamil Norwid. And I think here as authority, as responsible, let's respect those who don't have to work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u327	You have a voice, Senator Rulewski. [[Senator Rooster up...]] [[The voice from the hall: Stasio...]] [[Voices from the hall: Stasio, no!]] [[Why not? I'm gonna go get a drink.]] Going twice, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u328	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As many steps as you need and as much as you need. Well, I'm sure... Professor Grodzki is leaving, but I would like to ask what it is like in this happy world of Senator Dowhan, where a man should be free. What to do is a sick man, perhaps even a dying man, when just on Sunday And the disease doesn't choose the days of the week, it doesn't know what the holiday is, and that day the health care has... [[Voice from the room: Free.]] ... semi-free? And the bank financier, who should drive this trade, solve Senator Borowski's problems, is free, not only on Sunday and Saturday. And somehow she didn't lay low to pull out... And banks can work all the time. But I'm getting to the point. I would like to talk you through one more amendment. Maybe here's the common denominator. The acquisition issue on Sunday. This is a business operation. Of course, I thought Mr. Swed would catch it on the flight, but somehow he didn't catch it because he said he didn't do it. And he says no, the acquisition can be on Sunday. So they can go to apartments, they can press flyers on their way to church. I'm gonna use this nomenclature right here. But also to the synagogue, they can do even more, e.g. call constantly day and night. And the Minister says he didn't do it. I assure you, in other countries, no commercial acquisitions are allowed on Sunday. I think it's even Saturday. And now... So I remind him of that booze. Minister Swed, I understand, wants this miracle, these motorbikes with Morawiecki's electrics to run. I propose as an engineer... a better solution in many countries to make those bikes vodka. Instead of drinking it, let them drive it with vodka. And now I am. Very important And polemic and factual, as usual, was the voice of Senator Borowski. He said, even the opposite of what I think... Indeed, I have thought about these needs, about those people who do not recognize the Sabbath, or Sunday, and are neutral at all, and also have such a problem that they actually work until the end of Saturday. Well, I'm just suggesting that these basic needs, in accordance with the principle: so far as it is necessary, let's help as much as it is unnecessary, let's limit... And that's when these little shops will be able to meet these basic needs. But Senator Borowski's voice was important. Mr. Senator Borowski, I don't want to dig into your resume, but I do know that you, persecuted, maybe worked in commerce. In commerce, then it's in communist trade. As far as I can tell, it's in department stores. Well, Minister, Senator... It's true that you waste a lot of time. I could be an example. Once I went to the largest gallery in Bydgoszcz on Saturday free, there are 170 people employed there. I've counted 36. And what is the essence of this pressure for this trade to work, and at the same time our convenience to be fulfilled? Trade doesn't cost anything. Yes, 173 employees are on trash cans, half are interns or people in training, and of course volunteers and students in practice. And that's why the capital is pushing, and the government is pushing it. He doesn't understand. And it does, because it's a cheap trade. And the other thing. Trade is also characterized by something that we cannot overcome, and in Poland we have overcome, or innovation. Mr. Senator, if you really had to pick these things out there for so long, I don't know what kind of... trade is smart enough to bring it to you. If you lock them in here, I'll give you an example of the trade run by the former party secretary, Comrade Jasinski in Orlena. He's selling butter. At gas stations, you'll buy all kinds of vodka you don't even buy in the Czech Republic or Germany, but you won't buy a gearbar for a car because that's how trade works, that's the intelligence of commerce. Senator Borusewicz sits in front of me... [[Time's up.]] Now. What is Gdansk famous for, Mr. Senator? Trade. [[Amber.]] And what he lives for and why... Because rich is... On the other hand, he was rich because he lived in commerce. The town of Toruń, which is very poor and, I would say, should be in the second league... [[Voice from the gingerbread room.]] ...has the richest and largest town hall in Poland. It's from commerce, it's from commerce, because it wasn't the mayor who built it, it was the trade that built it. So are temples and other things... But that's not what we want to talk about today, it's just... [[Mr. Senator, the line...]] Indeed, the queue... Exactly. Last sentence. It's gonna be to the merchants, too. Trade also has to do with it that if there is somewhere else, for example. One Castorama where you bought something, 10 of them will be built. And you won't have to stand in line for 40 minutes, which actually are. They're gonna build some other stores and make some money off of you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u329	You have a voice, Senator Borowski. Second time, so five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u330	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, I often get so uncomfortable that I first make a point, some arguments, and then different people appear and either do not refer to these arguments at all, or they say something like that. Especially confuting me, I'd say you're Senator Rooster. Senator Rooster has such a custom that when I speak and argue, he always nods his head nodingly... [[No, no.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...and it's just confusing. I'm convinced that I convinced him, and then he comes out here and says something completely different, completely not referring to what I said. [[No, because it's not right...]] Senator Spider told me about Mr. Rajski's shops, but Mr. Rajski runs groceries and fine chemistry. I just said these could be closed. Senator Rulewski said something. I didn't really understand what was going on. They'll come to me... About what? With that rug? [[Yes, they will.]] They're coming to my house, right? [[Yes.]] They'll come in the dark, bring me a carpet gallery, set it up in the backyard... Mr. Senator, come on. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, really, trade is for the client. Where, as a result of closing shops on Sunday, there will be a great difficulty for customers, there simply should not be done, and that is it. That's one thing. Secondly, Senator Chudowska was talking about the lady who worked until 8:00 p.m. on Christmas Eve, and then she had to go to work on the second day of Christmas. I think it was a long time ago, because now the shops are closed on all religious and national holidays, and on Christmas Eve they finish their work at 4:00 p.m. It can be shortened to 2:00, no problem. [[There's a proposal to make it till 2:00.]] There you go, that's okay. [[There's a proposition.]] There's nothing to talk about. And the question is whether it's about shop employees or whether it's about customers. Because I hear different arguments. Once I hear the argument that this is about employees, because employees should be free on Sundays, and the second time I hear... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] I prefer to speak as your marshal sits... [[Yeah, I'll sit down.]] ...because sometimes I can turn to your marshal, and so this... [[Yeah, yeah, I'm sorry.]] So I don't really know what the main purpose of this change is, whether it's about employees who should have a Sunday off or if it's about families who shouldn't go to the gallery. Because I hear both. Well, ladies and gentlemen, on this first point, I have already spoken. As many employees as possible must be given Sundays free, but where this is necessary for the client, you must leave... And when it comes to families that shouldn't go to the gallery, I would have a request, of course, to Senator Rooster, so that he doesn't give me life so that he doesn't throw me life, or me, or anyone else who likes to go to the gallery, want to go to the gallery, go to the gallery with his family, and they like it so much. Because unfortunately, once on the part of Law and Justice, there are some bans, warrants, some ways of making people live, just because those who decide about it have such an idea. We're not a religious state, are we? Therefore, remember that you should celebrate the holy day... Agreed, let all who believe that it should be so holy. And those who have to work so that others can live better, let them work. This isn't just about trade, it's like there's a whole bunch of people working somewhere else. Finally, the workers... By the way, there's been a serious employee survey on this subject. The result was as follows: 40% Trade workers have nothing against working on Sunday and a further 30% It would be okay if for this day they received not only another day off but also an additional salary. So that all trade workers so demand this solution? Well, no, neither, so I have to say that option Which was considered, only was rejected, in order to change the labour code rather, to state that the worker must have 2 Sundays off, that would be the solution. What is it? Employees would be free, customers could come, all right. But it doesn't seem to be about the employee after all. Because if it were an employee, that's the option that would just be accepted. What about cross-border trade? What about trade in tourist destinations in tourist and winter and summer seasons? Yeah, as we're talking about Germany... That's where the Lands decide, or maybe even sub-level units. Because they take into account that a given town is a tourist destination, it is some central town to which people go, etc. We have these places, too. And here you don't leave any gates for the communes, but everything is trying to settle centrally. [[But...]] Yes, sir. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen... Oh, one more thing. Well, the project was signed by 500,000 people, and that's obviously an important thing. You have to look at it, you have to seriously discuss it. But just because 500,000 people signed something doesn't mean it has to be implemented. After all, polls show that most Poles are against this solution and would not have signed up for such a project. And if we take into account the villagers who are also asked For the villagers it is indifferent; let these great galleries be closed, for they do not use them anyway. Then it will turn out that the vast majority simply does not want it. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion and conclusion, one can actually say this: and let this law come into force and let me say that it will make things more difficult for people to function, so maybe these polls will not be as good as they are. But I once said that I would never prefer solutions that depend on the worse, the better, and I would not push for such solutions. That is why I am applying to reject this law in its entirety. That doesn't mean I'm almost done. It is not possible to solve this problem in part, but in a different way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u331	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator George Wcisla. [[Mrs. Marshal...]] [[Wait, how...]] Yes, Senator? [[In corrigendum mode...]] Please. [[...spoken to you...]] Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u332	...Senator Borowski, who in addition And it's sad for me. He didn't understand me. Maybe he doesn't know all the shopping techniques that depend on... [[But so do I.]] Today 40% The goods you mentioned are being traded online. And that's what my shortcut was about. If it's hard for you in this store... Because it's true. If you don't bet on the money because you want to make money It's gotta make a profit. And let the client stand in line... It's done online. I assure you... Come to my house, sir. The wife buys 30% Cheaper, buys better and faster, and most of all without her husband's company... [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...why I'm happy and I can work here. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u333	All right, gentlemen... I give the floor to Senator Jerzy Wcisle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u334	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I hope my colleague Senator Rulewski didn't speak in my time limit. I think the last five speeches were provoked by our colleague, Senator Stanisław Rogut. [[Well, I'm glad.]] I'd like to say yes. First of all, I am really very much in favour of us working less, and I have a set of views on this subject. But it's not done by such laws, I'm sure of it. This bill is crippled and doesn't solve anything. As I said, Prime Minister Morawiecki could Christianize Europe by saying that we would have a different civilizational development that would have resulted in more work, I was talking a little joke, but seriously. Such things as global division of work must be solved globally, not nationally, or we will be the victim of what we want to do ourselves. I think it would be good for Poland to be at the forefront of such a movement, which would say that we do not have to work at such a rate. Ladies and gentlemen, I can give you many examples, but I don't think I have time for this. How often do we exchange cars? How often do we exchange cells, washing machines and other things? We replace them not when they damage themselves, but when something new appears on the market. We buy new ones, but we don't use the new ones, and we often don't even know what's new about them. But that's what we're working for, not resting with our family. I'm not gonna talk about this anymore. The second thing, very important to me, is my attitude towards the Church. Ladies and gentlemen, I am a graduate of the Catholic University, I am a Catholic, but I would distinguish two things: something else is to be Catholic, and something else is to say what is said in the church. I am a Catholic for whom the Magisterium of the Church is important And that's what I was talking about in my speech. Not what the parish priest says, because these are often two different things. And if we look like you, Mr. Senator, he looks and says that I'm not Catholic or I'm speaking against the Church. That's what you said. It could be said that Christ was acting against the Church in this sense by pulling down a rope and smashing underneath the temple the people who traded religious and sacrificial pigeons underneath it. And I am just such a Catholic who says that certain things need to be eliminated and not called Catholic attitudes. A Catholic attitude that says that the Decalogue is best placed to introduce laws that force us to apply religious principles, canonical codes or commandments... We can't fix people like that. If the father of the Christian religion wanted to introduce such Christendom, such a kindness of men of compulsion, he would have introduced it. Yet, he subjected us to free will, not coercion. And this should never be an incentive to apply laws. But that doesn't mean that there shouldn't be such laws. It's just that they're e.g. should be based on our attitude. Because, ladies and gentlemen, in a Catholic country wishing to celebrate a holy day in such a way that you do not go shopping Although I don't know if it's a celebration of the holy day when you go shopping, let's assume that we're convinced that we're not going shopping, we're celebrating the holy day in this way. These stores would be closed. And why are they open? Because Catholics want to go to them. So let's work on it if we want to serve Catholicism so that we can be Catholic: shops will be closed, people will go to heaven and there will be a benefit. And this way of acting is closer to my sense of Catholicism than what you prefer, Dear Senator, which means that the bill is being introduced under the primacy of the Decalogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u335	Thank you. And Mr. Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u336	Mrs. Marshal, I will soon, and I would really like to correct. I didn't say you weren't Catholic. Because I'm not judging anyone, you know, in this way, and I've made it clear that you seem like you're denying what the Church says, and I didn't say you're not Catholic. These are two different things. [[I appealed to the council documents.]] No, no, I'm sorry, we're not gonna fight because it's not the place and the time for this, but you know, well...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u337	No place, no time, especially no time. Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u338	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, this is not the time and place to discuss when it's so late, because it's Friday. [[Voice from the room: To argue.]] And to argue about who's better Catholic and worse. I don't think we should share, and neither I nor anyone's accusing... Although it is surprising that... so I have heard that with those who want to emphasize it so forcefully and so always say how holy they are, not quite so, but in the case of Senator Rooster I am 100% I'm sure it's even better than 100%. But I really enjoyed the speech of a colleague of Senator Spider, because there are examples of shops that can be run differently. And no one forbids it, and it doesn't have to be governed by any law today. I think we're getting there slowly. Because, as I said, Poland is a young democracy, such a young growing economic power. And we'll grow tired of walking around shopping malls, and we'll get bored of other things. And if there are no people in the shopping galleries, there will be no one to shop, these shopping galleries will shut themselves down, change their working hours or change their trades. That's probably what's gonna happen. I don't think it's necessary to regulate it by law. And when it comes to how hard trade is, I'm gonna say that I worked in commerce for my first years after college. I worked in commerce when there was no internet, when there was no wholesaler, when sugar in 50-kilogram bags had to be carried 500 m to the car, then at night weighing it, when behind the bread it happened from 2.00 or 3.00 a.m. under the bakery. It was a time for trade. At the time, it was a really difficult business to trade with me and my family because we started with a grocery store when there was a shortage of goods on the market. Also with Senator Rulewski Senator Borowski is not here. I'm going to say that, in fact, the shops were closed for communes on Sunday, but out there outside vinegar and some small items it was difficult to buy, these shops were like a cure, and there was nothing in the shops, except on March 8, when it was possible to buy a few things for women. I've learned... I've worked a lot of years in commerce, I've got respect to trade, and I know that today this trade has really changed for the better. I've been setting an example of a store here in Green Mountain, I don't know if it's the only one. In any case, there is generally no contact in shops with people who work there, because you go, you pick goods, at the end you pay yourself, no cashier, you pay and you go out. And that's the whole-- Mr. Senator, that's the way it is. I had visitors, such friends from Ukraine. Last night, this friend of mine went to that store and when she arrived, she was so surprised... She called her friend, told me it was impossible that there were no people in the store, said, "I went, I chose, I paid." Well, they live in other realities. It's the same with other things. When you drive in Ukraine, for example. To the gas station, you have to go pay first, and then it fills up later. They come to Poland and say: how, impossible, you normally refuel and then you go and pay? Something crazy. We also feel that it is abnormal that stores in one country are closed and are still open with us. I think we're gonna grow up to that. A good example is the gentleman from Leviathan. He's an employer, so he calculated, he can close on Sunday, and he closes. Does anyone have anything to do with this? We're free to go. That's what Senator Borowski said. Don't let anyone organize their lives on Sunday. I'm a free man, nobody cares if I walk around the gallery all day or walk in the park or lie in front of the TV and watch movies. Everyone do what they want, because we live in a free country, we're free. Let's not give people brain water by telling them what they're allowed and what they're not allowed to do.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u339	Thank you, Senator. Senator Tomasz Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u340	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Isbo's a little lost, but I think it's due to the late hours. I'd like to bring up the subject... I planned not to speak, but after listening to my colleagues, I will allow myself a few reflections and present a proposal that has not yet come to light and seems to be one of the ways of solving the problem. Seriously, I mean, the economic effects of this bill are not numbered. Some say they'll be serious, but when we consider that she's basically holes like a sieve, I don't blame the ministry for not being able to tell. One of the basic attributes of freedom is the right to choose. And right now, it's the right election we want to limit. One wants to spend a holy day in slippers, with a book, all day isolated, the other wants to go to a gallery, go to a movie theater, watch goods or eat something in a restaurant full of people. And we shouldn't have forbid that. Like Senator Dowhan said, it's not mandatory to go to the gallery. People walk because they want to. Whether we like the direction in which the world is going or not, whether we consider it worthy of imitation or not, this is none of our business. Perhaps in a few years, as society matures, the galleries on Sundays will be a little more empty. They're overcrowded right now. Senator Wcisla said he was in favour of people working less. I, too, have an absolutely sophisticated view on this subject, and I am in favour of people working less. It's just that we didn't have any understanding here in the Senate for young residents who want the same thing they want for gallery employees. "Solidarity insists that they shouldn't work on Sundays." And if young doctors don't want to work 300 hours a month, the Minister of Health insults them. This can't be right. We can't be selective. Let's treat everyone equally. We're saying there was a poll here, 500,000 people, and we're getting to work. And when there were 900,000 people's voices about education, they're still in the back of the Sejm. You can't do that kind of hypocrisy. We either treat everyone the same or we don't. We said that solidarity was about protecting the workers, Catholics were about celebrating the holy day. And the Americans, a religious nation, have found a perfect solution for this, which has not yet been mentioned here. In Poland, you go to church, and then you go to the gallery, and Americans make chapels in galleries. And whoever's religious goes to the chapel, whoever's a sports fan, goes to watch a game that's in the malla complex, who wants to go shopping, goes shopping, and who wants to go to a restaurant, goes to a restaurant. And everyone's happy. Every attribute of freedom, every right to choose... [[Especially when they work on Sundays.]] And to save work for those who work on Sundays, this is a code job that we can do so that people can have other days off to work less. Because, in fact, work above strength is generally harmful. And that's what we're experiencing in the field of medicine because there's no doctor who works 168 hours a month, only usually 200 And that, too, is a subject to be dealt with. That is why we must strive to find a solution here. It is a good thing that this issue has been raised, because the aspect of human working conditions is extremely important. For Catholics, who have a huge majority in Poland, but not all, the aspect of celebrating Sunday It's extremely important. But the aspect of giving choices to those who want to benefit from Sunday between people and not in the privacy of their homes is also extremely important. And in my opinion, we should have a draft of this law, which I repeat: Sticks like Swiss cheese, full of possibilities of abuse and so filled with various exceptions, that it will actually be an artificial creation from its beginning. We should put this law aside and start a serious discussion about how to improve the lives of trade workers, and at the same time not limit... not force people to do what they don't want to do on Christmas days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u341	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u342	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First, I want to argue with my colleague, friend, Senator Rulewski and appeal to him for some restraint. Because you can go very far, towards orthodoxia... We have orthodoxes in Israel, but not only in Israel. Also in the United States we have orthodoxes who don't want to get in the car because they follow the rules very closely. Orthodoxes in Israel respect the Sabbath so much that not only do they not go shopping, but even the Sabbath candles will not light themselves Somebody's gotta light that shabbat candle. I'm not saying that we're here and that... but in a way, we're going in that direction. It's clear here... Why are we discussing these Sundays? These Sundays... This case is like that monster from the famous English lake that appeared and then disappeared, appeared and disappeared. For some, for those who think that all Sundays should be free, that you shouldn't work on Sundays at all, because that's the thing... For some of our society, it's a religious requirement, but it's for some. That part of society that's religious or religious. For a trade union that lacks success in the last 2 years because it supports the government... Because the union is successful when it's against the government. This is basically the only element that can be shown as success. I'm not surprised that a government that knows the consequences of this is going to be like a hedgehog. And I understand that. Mr. Senator, don't blame the government. Sorry, Mr. Senator will unhook the Swedish Minister. [[Room voice: Bravo, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Never...]] He knows the analysis, and he knows that 30,000 workers out of these three hundred and tens of thousands will lose their jobs. The government knows, too. And we should all know that. That prosperity comes from work. So if anyone says that if you work less, it'll be better, then I guess it's on your mind. I've been holding these votes in the Senate for a long time. Open Senate, crowds of people came here... Plus, I've been proposing a rehearsal vote. I thought... I thought the issue of Sundays free, which has been discussed every now and then, was a great excuse for such a trial vote to be held. At the same time, I wanted to see what the preferences were. For 60 such votes, there was only one in which the majority said: yes to Sundays free. Of course, it's not simple. You can't say that if we introduce these Sundays, we'll live happily ever after. Work gets richer. If you work less, you have to earn less, of course, and that translates into the wealth of the whole state. Examples: Germany, France and other Western countries... Okay, but they used to work Sundays and their national income, average income... [[They didn't work on Sundays.]] Our average income right now is about 67.68%. average income in the Union and they have 100% , and some to 140% average income. Can they afford to rest? They can. Or it seems that they can, because the French who put in a 38-hour day's work... Well, so happy... [[A week, a week.]] Sorry, a week's work. Now another president is trying to get out of it and get out. So we need to know what our capabilities are, and we need to be aware... Of course, we can get out of this. We can also ban work on Sundays to include other groups. But the consequence will be a decline in national income. So if anyone wants to go to the store on Sunday, go. Why do we want to make him go to church? He's not going to church. [[It's not that.]] But what is it? Well, it's not that... Let's not kid ourselves. The parts are about that, and the parts... But I said, relationships are about success. No matter how many tens of thousands of people lose their jobs. Of course, they may find jobs in other areas, in other services. As far as I'm concerned personally, I don't like being put together and telling me what to do on Sundays and what not to do. Of course, I'm happy to go for walks, but if I'm hungry on Sunday and I don't have time to shop for a week like today, because we're working, I guess, until 2:00, it's normal that I'd like to go and buy a couple of buns or something. It's normal. So the appeal... You want to give Poles a life of your own. Well, I'm sure this will end just like it did in Hungary. You're gonna be pulling out of cancer because all the public opinion polls are saying that people are against that kind of decision. If we're gonna limit it or you're gonna limit it... I mean, obviously you can't force people to work on Sundays. That's the rule. But in some areas you have to force people to work. So I'm gonna vote... [[Time, Mr. Marshal.]] ...for rejecting this law, because I do not like the introduction of increasing restrictions on social life in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u343	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Mrs. Marshal, in correction mode, because my name was used twice.]] There you go. But only once will you straighten it out? [[Yeah, I'll just talk once.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u344	Well, you're right, Mr. Marshal, it's not a simple matter. But it is simple to say that man is to be given such freedom as to trade or buy whenever he wants. Except you're not talking to the trade, you're going to the so-called. Trade, on the other side he sees a man. And I'm not getting into religious inspiration, but I'm definitely getting into social, humanistic. Mr. Marshal, yesterday I said that the state is not democratic and even loses sovereignty if it does not create a community if it is divided into people of the first sort and the second sort. And society will not be sovereign and democratic unless you see a man on the other side of the counter, a million people with their problems, forced, exploited. Inspector of the Labour Protection Council, who once was led by a beautiful Minister of Sweden That's why I'm not gonna back off. He doesn't see such a man today. There's no control on Sunday, Minister, you know that very well. [[Mr. Senator...]] There's no work control on Sunday...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u345	Mr. Senator, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Because you're so comfortable as a clerk...]] Mr. Senator... [[The corrigendum... really, one sentence only...]] That's one sentence, please. And Senator Krzysztof here, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u346	Mr. Senator Rulewski, so it was behind the wall, I mean outside the building... [[But even at the rally, man is human.]] ...not here.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u347	Good. Mr. Krzysztof Frost. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u348	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! To be honest, I was provoked by Marshal Borusewicz to speak in this debate. Of course, the ban on trade on Sundays has 2 elements: economic value Mr Mateusz Morawiecki says that this is not a problem for the Polish economy at this stage of development And the second element, probably more difficult, cultural element. We have taught the Poles for 27 years, that is, the system has taught them, we have not taught them. Shopping on Sunday. 27 years, you could say. It wasn't in the Polish People's Republic. Why do Hungary have such a problem today? Because they followed the same path. There, too, this expansion of foreign trading facilities, mainly German, French, which could not develop on Sunday at home... This has been introduced in countries such as Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovakia. And it sounded really strong. And today is the social pressure: we want to shop on Sunday. It's a very difficult problem, I don't even know if it's harder... It broke down in Hungary. Let's see how it goes in Poland. That's why, let's face it, quite controversial with these two Sundays bans... Personally, I'd prefer maybe a little bit of a different solution, so either there's a total ban or there's total freedom. But such a compromise has been made to break these rations. On two points, I cannot agree with Mr Marshal, and that must be emphasised. First of all, Mr. Marshal said that we make people live, we force them to go to church. Someone who doesn't want to go to church isn't going to go, and it has nothing to do with whether the stores are open or not. So I wouldn't tie one to the other. And then there's the second line. There is a problem for those who work in these shops. They have to work. And Mr. Marshal said that you would go for a walk on Sunday, because you have the opportunity to go for a walk, and those who work in these shops don't have the option. There's a problem here that these people are forced to work. And that's why there's this principle that if there's an owner, there's an entrepreneur who wants to work, he wants to get rich, he wants to multiply his profits, he has this opportunity, and those who are employed are forced by his employer, they don't have that possibility. We give them a guarantee today. One more note at the end, because it's actually late. If we had looked, we would have seen that most professional groups did not work on Sunday. It's not like everyone's working on Sunday, and suddenly we're doing some kind of breach and forbidding it in trade. I think we're making a breach the other way. We're in a situation where you don't generally work on Sundays... We can't, of course, compare some services, firefighters, doctors who have to work here. The rule is, you don't work on Sundays. And this bill... Generally, the idea of banning trade on Sundays this is the idea that trade workers also have Sundays free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u349	Thank you very much. Let me inform you that the list of speakers... [[I volunteered, Mrs. Marshal.]] I didn't notice, but if you do, go ahead. [[Yes.]] But as I understand it, This is the second speech? [[No, the first one. It's a short one.]] Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u350	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're debating a bill that raises great controversy. It's a bill that's supposed to give people who work in commerce a chance to relax, but unfortunately, this law only treats trade workers selectively. This is where Senator Frost said that, of course, if someone owns the store, they can decide for themselves whether they want to earn money or want to rest on Sundays. Unfortunately, the practice will be that it is this small businessman, individual, who, contrary to appearances, works the hardest in trade. Because he is also a supplier, a salesman and an accountant, he will have to work on Sundays because it will force him to compete. So if we really wanted to discuss this matter honestly and talk... I'm in favour of making a decision that the whole trade doesn't work on Sundays. And that would be the right decision. This would also put these individual entrepreneurs in the same situation as other entrepreneurs. You're gonna see Senator Frost, but everyone else is gonna have to sell the supermarkets. That's not good. Of course you can say that they make their own decisions, but the pressure of the environment will cause such action that they will work on Sundays. That's what Senator Rooster was even talking about. There was a question to him about how the vendors in his Guardians would behave. He said, "They're going to work because they're tiny shops." So that's how it's gonna look. It's gonna be thousands or hundreds of thousands of people. On Sundays, unfortunately, there are not only trades, there are great professional groups, which also work on Sundays. One might wonder how to introduce a system so that they can work less. There's a huge number of them, probably more than in the trade itself, so just... This bill in practice, and I think it's her main intention... This law is not about really giving a chance not to work on Sundays, it is about reducing competitive conditions for large commercial networks. And that is, unfortunately, the harmful idea of this bill. At the same time, there are many different gaps or breaches in this bill or the situation of the unjust. I tabled an amendment on this issue concerning, for example, fish trafficking. The amendment prepared by the committee said that only at the points of first sale, because it would only apply to fresh products, but it would mean that a fisherman who comes from the sea with fish could not sell them. We didn't see that, you didn't see it while you were working on the committee. Is the committee... [[It's not coming out.]] Please? [[It doesn't come out on Sunday.]] It's coming out because sometimes it has to go out. [[Voice from the room: No, no.]] [[That's what stores do.]] So there are a lot of situations like this. There is also such exclusion in this law that trade within the garrison area will be permitted without restrictions. What's a garrison? If you were to enter into the statutory or regulation definition, you would notice that the garrison is the city of Warsaw. And now, in the bill, we say that in the garrison area you can trade without restrictions. Does this mean that in the light of this law in Warsaw it will be possible to trade without restrictions? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Yes? And that's the intention of this bill? So the different environments simply got themselves excluded, not knowing exactly what this is all about. In practice, this law will unfortunately have to be amended several times only because the Senators of the Law and Justice did not want to debate it and reflect on it. This was the case at the seym and senate stage, although in the Senate we think, which is rare, two committee meetings devoted this bill. I don't think this bill is the right thing to do. It should go back to the government, it should be discussed, analysed, so as to lead to such a situation that its records correspond to the Polish reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u351	Senator Elephant.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u352	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to speak because of empathy. I think that many of my predecessors who spoke here, this empathy in some sense accompanied, but I would like to express it to those who did not come here, this term is performed by the service professions. There used to be a term in our society: a service contest. We referred to their representatives as having to work, but this empathy of the rest of society should be directed towards some gratitude towards those who perform such professions. I probably can't name them all, but they're doctors, nurses... [[...teachers, hotels, gastronomy. Thousands, thousands of people.]] Yeah, but let's not even try to replace them. There's a lot of competitions that I call service jobs, because they're essential for our society to function. And we should be grateful to these people, appreciate that they work for us, that they care for our safety, for our health, for our lives, and that we have warmth, light and water at home. The second wave of empathy that told me to come here concerns all those who have to work so that I simplify right now. Someone who wanted to go somewhere, meet someone, even spend time with their family, could have realized these plans. There were also such voices here that many families spend time shopping together, only that it is about whether we can try, at least try, to introduce a certain normality into our lives. Because we from this normality, I think, are leaving. We're starting to recognize as a social standard something that shouldn't be the norm. I don't want to appeal to these simple messages about what religious principles we have, because here we may differ. Indeed, there were such voices that it was not possible to impose certain religious standards on others, so I would not refer to them. But notice this simple relationship: a mother who works on Sunday, even if she gets a day off on Monday or Tuesday, she won't meet her children on the same Monday or Tuesday, because they're going to school, and she's not going to meet her husband because he's going to work. Let's take a look at the empathy of what a Sunday morning can look like in the family of such a saleswoman. She can finally meet her children, her husband or someone from her family at breakfast. Why do we not consider this to be a standard that should shape our society? Why don't we let this woman and her family prepare a Sunday meal so she can spend time with this family, even with her loved ones? That's the empathy element I'm calling for. I call on us to see what we're doing... We often say it's incomplete, because it's only two Sundays, three Sundays, but we're moving towards normality, giving tens of thousands of people a chance, or maybe hundreds of thousands of people, to get into that kind of normality. It's also about mental hygiene. In our society the number of depressions among young people is increasing, but also among older people. This is really serious stuff. Because there's no such thing as hygiene. It's not even about Moses inventing this principle that one day should be free, it's about the hygiene of a man's life. He must have a stop like this. [[It's not Moses, it's not Moses.]] After all, my older colleagues, of course, whom I respect, fought to keep Saturdays free. Look what's left of the free Saturday. What about the last Saturday off? Sometimes I feel like there's an even bigger race this Saturday. This is what you fought for, what you wrote down. It's Saturdays off. After all, it was equal to the broadcast of mass on the radio. That's what you fought for. And now we have to argue about whether to give some group of people, of course not everyone, the possibility that they can spend time on Sundays differently than on this week's ride. I don't want to prolong because... [[But why not the whole trade, but the chosen one?]] We won't save the whole world, but at least this little part will give us a chance at some sort of normality. Thank you so much, and I'm sorry I extended...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u353	Thank you. It informs that the list of speakers has been exhausted. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen... [[And Moses invented the day off?]] [[It was Moses who brought the Ten Commandments.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[It's not Moses.]] Please, Mr. Senator. There you go. [[But from the point of view...]] Good. [[From the point of view.]] It's from the spot. [[It's polemic.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u354	Well, I'm afraid... [[Quiet, please.]] I'm afraid you want to save the world. That's what I'm afraid of.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u355	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Robert Mamotkow, Jarosław Duda and Czesław Ryszka made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that the proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted in writing by the senators: Mr Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, Mr Senator Kaminski, Mr Senator Pociej, Mr Senator Rulewski, Mr Senator Augustyn, Mr Senator Dowhan, Mr Kleina and Mr Senator Augustyn. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to comment? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Paweł Gruza: Thank you, no.]] Thank you, Minister. [[That's too bad.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the proposals put forward and to present a joint report. I inform you that the vote on the bill will be held on Friday. Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in order to prevent the use of the financial sector for tax fraud. The text of the Act is contained in print No 667 and the report of the Commission In print No 667 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u356	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The Act amending certain laws to counter the use of the financial sector for tax fraud was examined by the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance on 12 December 2017. It was a government project which was adopted by the Sejm on 24 November at the 50th second session of the Sejm. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances adopted this law without amendment and this proposal was submitted by the chairman of the committee, Mr Grzegorz Bierecki. This law aims to introduce new legal rules that will counter the use of the financial sector, mainly banks and SKOKs, to tax fraud. This is, of course, particularly about VAT fraud. It is another law that aims to fight those who cheat on VAT, but not only because it also concerns money laundering and several other elements. She gives certain privileges or powers to the National Tax Administration. These are elements, such privileges or powers, which will consequently eliminate from the economic turnover of these entrepreneurs. Although I wouldn't tell the entrepreneur about these people, I would just tell them about the thieves who want to cheat the Polish state. The Senate Legislative Office submitted 18 proposals for amendments to this bill. These were amendments of different kinds, different natures. Some of these amendments were systemic amendments. The Legislator saw here a violation... or rather the possibility of violating certain rights and privileges, certain civil rights, and consequently violations of constitutional principles. But there were also technical legislative amendments, which were also dominant, as well as such amendments which the legislator said were such comments without specific proposals for amendments, as he would first have to learn more about the Ministry's intentions or intentions. A representative of the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Finance did not accept any of these amendments, although for some of them it concluded that they might be accepted in the future during subsequent amendments. The point here is that this bill should be passed as soon as possible, because every day, every week, these frauds increase and it is worth eliminating them. He spoke in the debate, among others. Senator Czarnobaj, who asked about the element of the consultation. The representatives of the Ministry have made it very clear that these consultations have lasted quite a long time. Well, not exactly Senator Czarnobaj was satisfied with the answer. Another senator, Senator Grabowski, asked, among others. whether financial sector entities, banks, especially those smaller cooperative banks and SKOKs, are prepared for this because they will also be subject to some kind of obligations in connection with the implementation of this law. And here the representatives of the Ministry stated that there are transitional periods, in particular for these small cooperative banks. This is 8 months, and in justified cases, if they cannot cope with certain technical systems, at the request of the Head of the KAS this period may be extended. [[I think that's what Kleina asked.]] Like I said, the committee is asking for this bill to be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u357	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a question to the Senator rapporteur from a place lasting no more than a minute. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Minister Paweł Gruza, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Paweł Gruza: No.]] Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit questions to a representative of the government on the agenda from a place of no more than one minute. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. As Minister Magdalena Gawin, Deputy Minister of Culture, is with us, we are about to proceed with the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Act on the Protection of Nature. We are waiting for Senator Czesław Ryszka, who will be in the O.R. in a moment. Literally 3 minutes break, ladies and gentlemen. We're waiting for... [[Not really, 'cause we're supposed to be done at 1:00.]] But this is a bill that didn't cause any controversy, so I think since the Minister is here... [[Excuse me, Mrs. Marshal, where will we sit?]] [[Two o'clock.]] [['Cause I can't see you anymore, really.]] Yes, Senator? And I love you... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Can I talk to you about a formal matter? Mrs. Marshal, we are familiar with the subject, we can drop the committee's report and go straight to the Minister's questions...]] [[Voice from the room: We can't...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] There's no president, there's no culture committee, there's no environmental committee... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Oh, there's the senator. [[Voices from the hall: There's the senator, there is.]] Mr. Senator... [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Senator, for... [[Talking in the O.R.]] We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Act on Nature Conservation. The text of the Act is contained in print No 673, and the report of the Commission In print No 673 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Czesław Ryszka, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u358	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Sorry I'm late. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on the Environment on the revision of the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Act on Nature Conservation. It's printing number 673. The committees were held on 4 December this year. They considered the parliamentary bill of 24 November 2017 on the amendment of the Act on the protection of monuments and monuments and the Act on the conservation of nature aimed at ordering the regulations concerning the removal of trees and shrubs from real estate entered in the register of monuments. Over the past few months, the standard provisions have been amended several times and, according to the applicants, need to be harmonised. In short, there are currently two administrative regimes for the removal of trees or shrubs from real estate. The first is based on the laws on nature conservation, which regulates the removal of trees or shrubs from the property area or part of it not included in the register of monuments. The second, described in the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Care of Monuments, standardizes the rules for the removal of trees or shrubs from properties entered in the Register of Monuments. The designers decided to combine both of these systems in such a way that the removal of trees or shrubs from the property or part thereof entered in the register of monuments would also be subject to the provisions of the Nature Conservation Act, the basic regulation in this respect, containing provisions on fees and administrative penalties for logging carried out against the rules and a catalogue of derogations specifying cases in which the removal of the tree or shrub does not require the approval of the public administration. According to Art. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 1 of the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Care of Monuments in the New Art. 1 point 1 of the new permissions of the voivodship monument conservator are to be required to carry out conservation, restoration or construction works at the monument entered in the register, including works consisting of removing a tree or shrub from the property or part thereof which is included in the register by a park, garden or other form of designed greenery. According to art. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (11) of that law is Article. 1 point 2 of the novels, except for the removal of trees or shrubs from the property area or parts thereof which are not included in the register by park, garden or other form of greenery, will also be required to take other measures which could lead to a breach of the substance or a change in the appearance of the monument entered in the register. In the amended article. Article 83a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (a) (iii) (a) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (a) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) 1 The Nature Conservation Act indicated, in turn, that a permit to remove a tree or shrub from the property is issued by a mound, mayor or city president, and where the permit concerns the removal of a tree or shrub from the property area or part thereof entered in the register of monuments Voivodship monument conservationist. From now on, the removal of a tree or shrub will require the maintenance permission only if they are removed as part of conservation, restoration or construction works. In other words, the removal of trees or shrubs from property entered in the register not related to conservation, restoration or construction works carried out at the monument will not require permission. In conclusion, I will say that this law allows better protection of trees, shrubs in historical areas, on the property where the monuments are located. So far, trees were protected differently in most areas of Poland, because they were subject to the Nature Conservation Act and there the mayor or the city president made a decision, either the officials on his behalf, whether the trees or shrubs in question could be cut or whether a fee could be imposed. In the case of real estate on which historical buildings are located, such permits are issued by a voivodship monument conservator, but they are issued on the basis of the Act on the Protection of Monuments, and there were missing some elements to draw consequences for owners of these properties, who without the consent of the voivodship monument conservator wanted such trees or shrubs to cut out. Hence, it was necessary to treat the greenery growing in areas where there are historical objects, as well as all other areas, so to base on the Nature Conservation Act. The difference will only be that it is a voivodship conservationist of monuments, and not a self-government representative will issue consent and possibly charge penalties or fees for cutting out vegetation or the wildly growing one, or in some way shaped by man. This will certainly help to protect greenery in historical areas. High Izbo! Minister! The Joint Committee on Culture and Media and the Environment Committee propose to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u359	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Kleina.]] Please, Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u360	Mrs. Marshal! Mr Senator, rapporteur! Does this mean that this bill is to withdraw from this lex Szyszko, which gave the opportunity to cut down trees everywhere and without restrictions on private and public property? Is this getting out of this?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u361	That's how you sort things out. [[But did leaving this law, which, unfortunately, has caused so much damage in public space?]] That's one way to say it. [[God bless that answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u362	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you. Thank you, Senator. The bill was introduced by Members. We have a representative of the government, Minister Magdalena Gawin, Deputy Minister of Culture, General Monument Preserver. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: No, thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question, Minister? [[No one signed up.]] Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Maciej Łuczak made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: That's before the time that ends.]] But thanks to that, you can sleep longer, Mr. Senator. Thank you very much. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. Thank you, Minister. I'm declaring a recess until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow... [[See you tomorrow? Until today.]] I'm sorry, until today, I'm so sorry. Until 9:00 a.m. today. Do we have any messages? There's messages, okay. That's the message.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u363	Dear Senators! The meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the examination of applications submitted at the 50th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act on the National Judicial Council and certain other laws, print No. 686, and to the Act on the Supreme Court, print No. 685, will take place on 15 December, Friday, at 8.30 p.m. in room No. 182. Joint meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of requests submitted at the 50th Senate meeting to the Act on Trade Reduction on Sundays and holidays and on some other days will take place on 15 December, Friday, at 8.00 in room 179. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-senat-52-3.u364	It's 9:00 in the morning. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 1 minute 09]]
