ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u1	I open forty-third session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Alexander Swede and Senator Jerzy Wcisła to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Alexander Swed. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, Władysław Bulka, senator of the fifth term, member of the Committee on Immigration and Poles abroad and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport died on 3 June. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of Senator Władysław Bula. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord.]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon him."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the Sejm at its forty-third meeting on 8 June 2017 adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Law on the Legal Protection of Plant Varieties. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the thirty-nine and forty minutes of the meeting, I state that the minutes of these meetings have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 40th Senate meeting in accordance with the Senate Rules of Procedure are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that items one, three, four, five and point six of the draft agenda be considered, although the reports of the relevant Senate committees to these items were submitted at a later date than those referred to in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose that the Senators be removed from the agenda of item five, namely the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of medical professionals employed in medical subjects, and to consider this item at the next Senate meeting. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Mr. and Mrs. Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the Act amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons and some other laws. . and to consider it after the point on the draft opinion on non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity of the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. I think that's gonna be the seventh point. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] If I do not hear a voice of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u2	Mr. Marshal, on behalf of the opposition, I object to point four. This is a law amending the Regional Accounting Chambers Act. And I'm filing for his photo on the agenda. He should never really go to the meeting of the Sejm, let alone to be proceded in the Senate, because he is really introducing a systemic change in Poland, limiting in a significant, clear and visible way the powers of local government. This government project was consulted before it was submitted to the Sejm with various local governments. The Joint Government and Local Government Commission has agreed that it will not contain the provisions it contains. Later, amendments were tabled in the course of the Parliament's work, which brought these records back. If there is a speech in this project ♪ and it's said ♪ The RIO's control of the management of public funds by local governments is really the government's use of RIO He can do anything with local governments. This leads to a significant, significant reduction in the competences of local authorities. Since we were all proud of the reform of local government, which was the essence of building Polish democracy, I find it difficult to imagine I'm saying this on behalf of our club. So that anyone from the High Senate can support this project. And that's why we're asking you to take this item off the agenda. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u3	Mr Senator, I will breach and put this proposal to the vote, although I should not have, because I had previously asked the High House whether it accepted the proposal to consider points one, two, three and four, and they all agreed. Now you change your mind, you change your mind. But I understand there's a conclusion. I am putting this motion to the vote. Who's in favor of Senator Klich's request? Please press the "Za" button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 29 were in favour, 50 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 1]] The senator's motion was rejected. Are there any other votes on the agenda? Thank you very much. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 40th meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office. Ladies and gentlemen, anonymous surveys on impact assessments have been distributed on the desktops to our initiatives, which have been prepared by the Legislative Office for more than a year. The head of the Senate is asking for these surveys to be filled in and submitted to a transparent urn, which is located in the so-called. The aquarium, which is the room at the entrance to my right. In addition, I should like to inform you that a two-hour break will be ordered tonight at 2:00 p.m., during which my meeting will take place, the Senate Bureau, the presidents of the Senate Clubs and the presidents of the Senate Committees of the Social Dialogue Council Bureau. After this meeting, i.e. At 4:00 p.m., we will proceed with the point: report on the activities of the Social Dialogue Council for 2016. The brochures on the Social Dialogue Council, which have been sent to you electronically, are presented in the interview room for senate prints. Ladies and gentlemen, important information. Vote on the bill amending the Bond Act... In short, after the first point, the vote will be held and the discussion of this point will be completed. If there are no amendments, then immediately after, if there are amendments, a long break will be ordered and we will proceed to the vote after the interruption. The remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'll also inform you It's also an important piece of information. In the case of the adoption by the Sejm of a law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of the programme, and the preparation of a report on the matter by the Senate committees on the agenda of the current Senate meeting will also be supplemented by this law. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Bond Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 527, and the report of the Commission In print No 527 A. I would ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Budget and Public Finance at its meeting yesterday considered the law on amending the Bond Act. The committee's report can be found in print No 527 A. The Commission unanimously recommends that the High Senate adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of the senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome... I can't see, I can't hear the calls. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome to the meeting of Minister Wiesław Janczyk. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: Mr. Marshal, I support this project...]] But yes or no? Because you either speak or you don't. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: No, I'm not. In the end, I'm gonna go back to...]] No. Good. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question to the Minister? I can't see, I can't hear the calls. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm opening the discussion. Is anyone... no one. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for the discussion, for the vote. I therefore close the discussion. And, ladies and gentlemen, we proceed with the announced vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We'll proceed with the vote. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 527 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? You're welcome to apply... [[Bielan didn't make it.]] Have you made it to the marshal or not? [[I made it.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal believes the Platform?]] Good. Congratulations. Thank you very much. Please report the results. Not all of them made it, but this... [[Joy in the Chamber]] I would like to inform you that 84 Senators voted, 81 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 2]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the Bond Act. We proceed with the review of item two of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Special Rules of Preparation for Investment in Flood Structures. The text of the Act is contained in print No 513 and the report of the Commission In print No 513 A. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Jan Hamerski, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 1 June of this year, a joint meeting of the Environment Commission and the Infrastructure Committee examined the draft amendment to the Act on specific arrangements for preparing for the implementation of the flood-related investments of 8 July 2010 in Senate print No 513. This amendment will also allow the application of this law to investments in meteorological radar stations. The joint committee was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management, the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and the Supreme Chamber of Control. Mr Mariusz Gajda presented the government's position on the draft amendment in a positive opinion. A representative of the Legislative Office then submitted comments. These comments mainly concerned the nomenclature of the amended law and the resulting relations with other laws. Senator Stanisław Kogut, who held the joint committee meeting, submitted a motion for adoption of the bill without amendment, and Senator Florek, in turn, submitted a request for acceptance of the proposals presented by the Legislative Bureau as his amendments. As a result of the vote, the bill without amendments was adopted by 11:5 votes. I ask the High House to adopt a resolution proposed by the committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask such a question? [[Voice from the room: No.]] No, I don't see any volunteers. [[Me.]] Yes? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u8	Mr. Senator, I have a question. This is another matter which concerns the aquatic environment, which is implemented in principle by means of a specialty, i.e. disregarding the normal law in Poland. What is the justification for such specific solutions in this matter? And why is it impossible to build these radars on the basis of existing law?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u9	I think the flood cases were always investigated back then. Well, that's often the case. When we were flooded or flooded. Therefore, in order to anticipate such events, we add to this specialization meteorological radar stations, which are to warn against various types of climatic disasters, i.e. mainly winds, storms, etc. At the moment, this task will be carried out At least that's what Minister Gajda said. Approximately 4 meteorological radar stations are waiting. One of them, which is already ready to be realized, is located, as I remember, on the Holy Mountain of Anna, and the remaining 3 investments are also to be realized as soon as possible. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u10	Thank you very much, Senator. You ask Senator Władysław Komarnicki a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Senator, I have two questions. First: how long will the time necessary to carry out all the procedures to carry out the investments in flood structures be reduced in comparison to the existing regulations, and in what time is full coverage of Poland's surface with radars planned? That's my first question. And two: what will be the cost of completing the installation of these radars that are needed to cover the entire territory of Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u12	This was not the subject of debate at the meeting of the Joint Committees. I think this question should be addressed to the Ministry. [[Well, then, Mrs. Marshal, I'd like to ask you this question when you're Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u13	Yeah, okay, of course. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. The question is asked by Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u14	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Senator, rapporteur, I would like to ask you to discuss the reservations of the other members of the committee, since as many as five people voted against the proposal, there were also doubts raised by Senator Flork. Since I am not a member of these committees, I would like to know what were the reservations, ask for the presentation of the doubts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u15	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u16	Doubts, Mrs Senator, were mainly due to the failure of the applicants to introduce a new law into the title of the Act, the provision that it concerns not only flood-proof structures but also meteorological stations. It actually was basic, so to speak, a motion from the Legislative Bureau. As a result of the fact that this was not included in the title of this bill... It was, in effect, a correlation with other laws in which there were records concerning flood structures.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u17	Thank you very much. And Mr. Jarosław Oremski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u18	Mr President, I have been reported to have two problems with this law. If this is in some sense a special act that allows for a faster legislative path and for action to combat floods, it is said that 2 elements are missing in this law. Namely, there is a lack of such structures that serve to avoid the formation of ice congestion, which can later cause floods. The next element, which is completely crucial, is this. When we are dealing with constructions, with counter-actions, but not in a situation of immediate danger, just in advance, in a situation of preventive action... In any case, the possibility of creating access infrastructure for this tupu is lacking in this specialty. shares or construction. And it often breaks down about that, often there is the possibility of creating a specialty, making a quick decision on the construction on the river, but we are not able to do it because there is simply no specialty to provide access to the construction site. Is this some kind of loophole in this bill? Was there a discussion about it? [[It wasn't.]] Is that the problem that's come up now?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u19	Mr Senator, there was no discussion on this at the joint committee meeting, so that it is difficult for me to take a position on this at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u20	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u21	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! One of those radars you were talking about is to be built on Mount St. Anne. I know the history of the formation of this radar, or actually its non-emergence. He's just at the moment being stored in parts and waiting to be able to take action. Will this law help to activate this radar and increase weather protection? I'm asking because she's only changing her mother's bill to this narrow extent. Will we thus allow the existence, operation of equipment that will protect us, or at least warn us about natural disasters?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u22	Senator, that was one of the motivations of the applicant, and that was also the opinion of the government, a representative of the government at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator George Wright. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u24	Mr. Senator, will this meteorological radar system, if any of the radars that are planned to be built, also warn against flood threats in coastal areas, including the Vistula Bay area? As you know, there is only 2 days of unfavorable wind and this threatens 200 thousand inhabitants.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u25	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u26	This system warns against meteorological hazards, so to speak, not directly related to the so-called risks. With the back, because I think that's what this is all about, I'm sure it's what the senator means.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u27	Thank you very much. Please, the question is asked by Senator Mieczysław Golba.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u28	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator introduced the changes to the bill. I have a detailed question as to whether changes to this bill will primarily help the people of the Vistula river basin and others to ensure... Because I've heard information before that they probably don't apply to so-called. backwards, etc., and they're very dangerous, they're very dangerous. Are we still planning to amend this law in the future so as to extend this radar range? The idea is to warn about natural disasters as a whole, not just to a narrow extent. This problem has often been reported by inhabitants, such as Podkarpacie, because the submersibles and natural disasters, even tragic for the inhabitants of Podkarpacie, were very much. So I'm asking if we're doing this to a narrow extent today, or if we're going to do it more widely.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u29	This, of course, concerns the narrow scope of this law, which we are talking about, concerning the implementation of investments in flood-related structures, except that at the moment I don't know if it's in the Sejm or if it's in the committees. The water law is being processed. I think all the comments you're making right now may, as I say, come back in the process of the Water Law Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u30	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to ask the senator of the rapporteur a question? No. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The draft law was introduced by Members. Today he is with us as a representative of the government Minister Sławomir Mazurek, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? Yes. You're welcome, Minister. Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u31	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The questions that just came up are very good questions. You will be able to obtain full information when the discussion on water law takes place, because water law is this flagship, very important project allowing comprehensive action to ensure the availability of water resources and flood protection. This will be the document that will change a lot in Poland. It will lead us to a path through which we can provide citizens with a service and safety at a decent level in the area of water management in the framework of sustainable development. The proposed amendment will allow for the selection of the best substantive location of the radar station, provide the best administrative procedure to obtain the necessary permits, shorten the time of implementation of the investment and, most importantly, provide funding for the implementation of the investment according to the planned timetable without the risk of losing the so-called. financial assembly. We support this project and ask for its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u32	Thank you very much, Minister. Stay on the stand, or there will be questions for the Minister. I'm sure you'd like to ask Senator Władysław Komarnicki. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u33	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have two questions. First. How long will the time necessary to carry out all procedures for implementing flood-related investments be reduced compared to the existing rules? And at what time is full radar coverage of the entire country planned? And second question, Minister. What will be the cost of completing the installation of these radars to cover the entire territory of Poland with these installations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u34	Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u35	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! There are currently 8 meteorological radar stations in Poland. In order to achieve full radar coverage, at least 4 more radars are required on the Holy Mountain of Anna, North-East Poland, Central Poland and Lublin. The proposed amendment to the Act will facilitate, after securing the required financial contribution, the taking of steps that will allow investment and the provision of radar protection for the entire country as soon as possible. As for the costs of implementing each of these investments, it is a dozen million zlotys, 12 and 13 million, depending, of course, on the secured funds and the financial process. [[This is, if I understand it correctly, the average cost of this investment. Yes?]] Yes. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u36	Thank you very much. And Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u37	Mrs Marshal, Minister, we have 8 radar stations in Poland, four of which we would like to build, as the Minister said in the committee, one in the near future, and three others may be in three years' time. Minister, why didn't you take action to get this station on Mount St. Anne... why don't you want a building permit according to the building laws that apply to the building law, which also leads to the same goal... I have a question: how many parcels, how many thousands of parcels must be bought for the construction of this station? Do you have to create a specialty for that? And a question about water law. You're saying there's gonna be a process for changes in water law where you can, I don't know, improve... And in a moment, I'll tell you what needs to be improved. But, then, when can this water law be changed, or this year, or next year? Is it really necessary to take such rapid action only to set up one radar station, or can it wait, of course, given what we all know that safety is the most important, flood safety? But these radars don't fit into this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u38	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u39	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for this question. I think it is worth asking why water law is only now being processed and why this water law was not adopted by the previous team. I think that the sense of responsibility for state affairs, security, protection of Poles when it comes to flood protection is a priority of this government. Mr Mariusz Gajda, who is absent at this point in time and who is currently proceding water law, has been very active every step of the way since the Law and Justice took responsibility for this section, is working on these changes so that they fully guarantee the interests of the state and the safety and health of citizens. These works are currently taking place in the Seym. For our part, we guarantee full readiness to maintain dynamism here. I believe that there is also agreement on the part of Parliament to proceed urgently with this project. But it's on Parliament's side, so it's hard for me to tell you how quickly Parliament will work. I believe that, given the priority of this law, its importance will be pursued urgently. What are these details and this project, it's all about using the funds that are possible right now... Let us also note the weather phenomena that appear in Poland. There is therefore a need to make these changes urgently in order to make use of the funds, and to ensure security, to safeguard the lives and health of citizens. And we think this is the best way to meet these conditions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u40	Thank you very much, Minister. And Senator Jarosław Oremski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u41	Excuse me, I'm going to repeat myself: as long as the Ministry sees a lack, which may be illusory, but this is what I have information from people who are professionally involved in regulatory matters, fighting the flood on the river Oder... An important problem in the construction of new buildings is the issue of access to construction. Private property is often an important factor which causes the investment to fail in time or a very strong extension of the investment. How much is this element that you think about in the Ministry when you create a new water law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u42	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u43	Thank you very much. Mrs Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, of course, water law is intended to help us to approach matters in a comprehensive manner, to this important issue. Let us remember that moving away from spatial planning in Poland at some point, from some discipline in terms of real estate planning and management and meeting priorities important from the point of view of usability, has caused us to solve problems today. Of course, they are analysed on an ongoing basis by the Ministry of the Environment, by specialised institutions, by the National Water Management Board. There is a need for change and it will certainly be implemented under water law, as well as in the Ministry's current activities in terms of analytical work.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u44	Thank you very much. Would you like to ask me a question, Senator? [[No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u45	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question. What phenomena does weather radar warn us about? We are talking about flood-related issues, which are heavy rainfall, but there are supposed to be tornadoes. What's bothering me... It goes on for example. about the corridor northeast of the Moravian Gate, about violent and short-lived phenomena which are rather unpredictable. What is the possibility of using this radar? I'm talking about Mount St. Anne. Do you want me to tell the locals that something like this is coming? Any 5 or 10 minutes can matter here. Is that a possibility?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u46	Radars, of course, analyze weather conditions and many other parameters on an ongoing basis. They collect information that is aggregated at the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management. The chances of safety are increasing. This is precisely because information, even about phenomena that arise suddenly... Let us remember that there are harbers of such phenomena and they can be analyzed and observed to a greater or lesser extent. It can be said that knowledge and experience, plus cooperation within the institutions with which IMGW cooperates, allow and will allow faster response to such phenomena. Of course, the radar is part of a wider security system, which will enable us to inform citizens in advance of this kind of phenomenon.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator George Wright.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u48	Minister, the question has already been asked twice about the reasons for the use of the specialty, and there has never been an answer to a good case. The fact that radars are very important... A lot of things are very important, but legal procedures are set and should apply. What is the reason why we are breaking procedures today and applying special laws? Is this a matter of time when we need to spend money or the expected flood that we need to build radars for? Tell me what's the reason we're applying the specialty rules here. That's the first question. The second question I would like to ask, and which I also asked the rapporteur, concerns coastal areas, among others. Vistula flood, where there's a threat caused by withdrawal. The backup has purely meteorological causes. Will the coastal areas be, as I say, protected by these radars, or will the inhabitants of these areas be warned that there is a threat from meteorological phenomena? And that's the point, Minister. As far as the reference to water law is concerned, you rejected that answer by saying that the Civic Platform did not prepare water law. Well, it's been 20 months since you've taken power, and I don't think it's the time to keep making excuses for not getting things done in your previous term of office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u49	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u50	Mr. Senator, I'll say it again if you haven't heard the answer. Financial assembly issues and financial issues are important here. The aim is to use the available resources in such a way that it is as beneficial for citizens as it is for the Treasury, on which we all, as citizens, put. This is one of the important arguments in order to complete the number of radar stations in Poland as soon as possible. Water law will allow this to be done, of course, in successive turns; it creates many possibilities. Unfortunately, because we don't have that water law yet... We do not have it, although work on water law, on implementing the Water Framework Directive, has been underway for several years, not only for 20 months. Let me mention that the number of pages of this water law... Its range is really big. However, this law was revoked before the Council of Ministers a few years ago. We're not afraid of responsibility. And I say... I'm in the position of Minister Gajda, who is a great expert in this field. I'm learning a lot from him myself when it comes to this area. And I think he could probably answer these questions better and more precisely, so that I'm sure the senator would be more satisfied. Unfortunately, in connection with the work on water law and the presence in another part of this complex of buildings, it cannot answer. I can only answer as much as my knowledge in this area allows me. Of course, with regard to other questions that you have not been satisfied with, we will send you written information.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u51	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to ask you a question? You're welcome, Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u52	Minister, on the one hand, radars, and this is an obvious matter, and on the other hand, rapid communication with the population. Is cooperation with the media envisaged, e.g. with television, in the form of letting in or renting out an information bar with information about the upcoming storms that have appeared quite often in recent years? I used to observe this situation when I was at Tennessee University in Knoxville, where a tornado path was going through, and there everyone was informed about when, what and how, with accuracy even as far as the city's districts. It worked fantastic. I think it would be an excellent addition here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u53	Thank you very much. Would the Minister like to refer to this? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Sławomir Mazurek: Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Thank you very much, Senator, that's a very good point. I'd like to remind you... In this area, as a member of the digitalisation committee, I can say that the whole strategy of digitisation of the state implies that these services also be disseminated in the area of security. Already today we can receive communications from the Government Security Centre about meteorological phenomena, about traffic difficulties. This road, which shows that a number of services are directly accessible to the citizen not only through social media, but also through all available sources... These profiles are prepared, analysed and even implemented in many areas, as is the case with the RCB profile.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u55	Thank you very much, Minister. Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Sławomir Mazurek: Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.]] I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Jerzy Wcisła. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Piotr Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u56	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! About the senator's last question... It's a regional warning system called RSO. For each voivodship You can download the app, there's all the information you... I've been involved in the introduction of this system. There's all the information in there. And I recommend that you use this regional system. In relation to the project I will say that as to the validity of the construction of radars, etc. Of course, none of us have any doubts, but they're about the procedure, because we're talking about the procedure right now, about the specialty. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is a parliamentary project from April 7th. And what was done? There is a law on special arrangements for preparing for the implementation of flood-related investments, namely the Act of 8 July 2010. Right after the flood, we took action to adopt such a law. And it is indeed a special act, just like a few others that are accepted, e.g. Special law on road construction, very important, concerning railways, airports. We have several specialities in cases where procedures are actually complicated and the range is large. Well, in the case of road construction, I recall the decisions I signed. There were a thousand parcels included in such a decision related to the specialty. Indeed, such laws should be adopted, but here we have... I'm gonna totally criticize what you're doing right now, Minister. We accept a specialty that we have to put somewhere, so we put it into the 2010 Flood Construction Act. The law is written about water law, what flood-proof structures are, and there is no mention of meteorological radar, which is why this whole problem with the name of the law has arisen, etc. Well, because we put something there in a big bill to just satisfy the needs that are, I mean. Yes: we have 8 radars in Poland, we want to put 4, 1 radar in packages... I don't know, since when, I don't know, when did you start trying? I mean, there's normally a bill. The building law to be able to prepare all the documents that are necessary. There's also an environmental decision. It is known that the specialty shortens the deadlines a little bit, but we are really talking about 1 radar station. I don't know, maybe one plot, maybe two, maybe three lots, where we're gonna put this station. I can't imagine that there's a problem for this, and that for setting up 1 meteorological station we have to change the specialty, we have to change the bill, and it's still sloppy, so to speak. I'll explain why. Plus, there's some intel, Minister, that's in the ministry... This is a parliamentary project, which means it must have come out of the ministry information that 1 radar is already purchased and that it needs to be put up, so Members, as it turns out, are bringing such a project. It's not a government project. It's a parliamentary project. So it's, I don't know, some kind of failure of officials, Minister, or something else that they can't handle 1 radar. You've already told us about the location of St. Anne's Mountain, that it's probably the term, because the radar has already been purchased, the warranty, etc... That's what I'm talking about. But the bill about improving security... That's one thing, and here we're talking specifically about a station that needs to be set up. You were talking about water law procedures, Minister. Okay, okay. We know it's been prepared before. You have been discussing water law for several months now, and from what you said at the committee meeting, it appears that water law will probably be changed in 2018. So there's still plenty of time to change that. And that's why it was necessary, if any, to prepare such a change so that it would just have arms and legs. I don't know when you guys started getting permission. Somehow, you're afraid you won't make it, and that's why you have to take this kind of action. I have a few proposals and I will make an official amendment. This is 6 pages to this law. They result, among others. of the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, which was submitted at a committee meeting. I'll start with a short one, I still have 5 minutes, so that quietly a few comments on the proposals that are in these amendments. Well, the title of the amended act... The amendment extends the scope of the Act. The current law lays down detailed rules for the preparation for the implementation of flood-related investments. Meteorological radar stations are not flood-proof structures as defined in the Act "Water Law," i.e. they are not... Therefore, if we want to introduce something new, we do not want to create a new, separate bill, specializations, because we would have to move a lot of things from this law to that one. If we want to add something, of course we have to do it. This is how we should do it, which is also in the Act we have to add that this applies not only to flood buildings but also to meteorological stations. Now the second amendment, very important. If it had come to me on my desk and I had to make a decision to allow this investment, I wouldn't have made that decision. What's the reason? Art. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 talks about what the application for a decision on the investment permit contains. And in point 1, we have a record of: the characteristics of the investment that define the type of flood structure and its location and technical parameters. There's still no change. This provision speaks directly of flood-related structures and will not be applicable to investments in meteorological stations, therefore the words "a type of flood-related structures' should be replaced by the words "a type of investment'. Previously, this is described in the Act as investment, so... And here we're talking specifically about flood prevention structures. Therefore, on the basis of that provision, It is about the documents to be submitted in order to obtain the decision This decision cannot be adopted. About the amendment... We need to be consistent, and we need to revise other laws so that all of this has arms and legs. I'm not gonna read the laws right now. This mainly concerns formal cases. These radar stations should be covered by the scope of these laws. As the legislator extends the scope of the revised Act on investment in meteorological radar stations, the provisions of other laws should be amended to the extent that they relate to investments carried out on the basis of the amended specialty and refer directly to flood prevention structures. This includes: laws in real estate management, nature conservation law, etc. This amendment describes exactly which laws should be amended. Moreover, the Legislative Office has also prepared such a proposal for a comprehensive amendment. And one last remark. The transitional provisions shall be adopted in accordance with the Maybe this isn't that important, and maybe I wouldn't have tabled any amendments if that was the case. The point is that we're talking about meteorological radars, and we should use the term meteorological radar stations. If we want to issue a decision on an investment permit, we need to take into account all of this infrastructure, so not only the meteorological radar, but also what, so to speak, must arise in the eye of this investment. That is why I believe that this should be changed. We should be talking about meteorological radar stations, not just meteorological radars. These are the amendments to this bill, Mrs. Marshal, which I declare in writing. In my experience, if we don't make such amendments, we can question... Of course, I understand that this is about one decision, one station, because the next decisions may be in two years or three years. I'm sure by then the water law will be changed, but even if we're talking about this one station... According to the law, the decision to allow the execution is given by the voivode. Depending on how the voivode puts herself into it and how she's gonna assess it... He's either gonna make that decision or he's not gonna give it to her. On the basis of my experience, I can say that I would have made such a decision, if the provisions of this law had remained unchanged, I certainly wouldn't have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u57	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Piotr Florek. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the legislative proposals put forward? Minister? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Sławomir Mazurek: No.]] No. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Environment Commission and the Infrastructure Commission to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on proceedings before administrative courts. The text of the Act is contained in print No 525 and the report in print No 525 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which has examined the Law on the amendment of the Law The change is really about 4 articles, 3 key issues. The provision in Article is proposed. 28 the Law on the Procedure of Administrative Courts, supplementing the bodies of government administration and state organisational units without legal personality list of entities which may entrust the Prosecutor's Office of the General Republic of Poland with a procedural replacement, which corresponds to the provision of the article. 10 Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland. The second amendment concerns the solicitor's obligation to file a cassation complaint to the NSA. In accordance with the proposed §2 in Article. 175 Exemption from the requirement to file a cassation complaint to the NSA by a lawyer or legal adviser would also apply to situations in which a prosecutor of the Public Prosecutor's Office or, in general, the Public Prosecutor's Office is acting as a substitute for a State Treasury, government administration or state organisational units which do not have legal personality. And the third amendment is to delete the article. 287 the Law on proceedings before administrative courts. The administrative courts take the view that Article. 287, although it is in the rules governing proceedings before administrative courts, cannot constitute an independent basis for seeking compensation. The Sejm passed the bill almost without a vote of objection, there were only a few votes of opposition. The High Commission proposes to adopt a law without amendments. The vote was unanimous, everyone was in favour.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u59	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] This bill was introduced by the President. Ms Anna Surówka-Pasek, Undersecretary of State at the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland, was authorised to present the President's position during parliamentary work. Would the Minister like to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present the position of the President? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u60	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The bill tabled here, adopted by the Sejm on 8 June, is updating, as the rapporteur pointed out, a number of important issues concerning the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland. Among other things, it introduces §3 into Article. 28 of the law on proceedings before administrative courts in order to harmonise all provisions concerning the possibility for the Public Prosecutor General of the Republic of Poland to act as a procedural deputy in matters which concern the State Treasury, whether it is state-owned organisational units without legal personality, whether it is government administrations. The next amendment concerns Article. 175. It is a matter of abolishing the solicitor's obligation in respect of cassation actions before the Supreme Administrative Court, which are drawn up by the Attorney General's Counsel. The current rules exempt lawyers of the Attorney General from this obligation when they are themselves parties to the proceedings or are their agents or representatives. However, these provisions do not take into account the specific substitute resulting from the law under which prosecutors act as bodies. It is therefore proposed to add to the law the law on proceedings before administrative courts art. 175 §2a, which also in respect of such persons will abolish the solicitor's and counsel's obligation to file a cassation action before the Supreme Administrative Court. In turn, the deletion of the law on proceedings before administrative courts of art. 287 is only intended to lead to such a situation that there will be no more doubts as to whether or not Article. 287 may or may not be an independent basis for requesting claims from the State Treasury. Currently, all courts generally recognise that the basis for seeking claims from the State Treasury or local government units is Art. 4171 §2 of the Civil Code. This is all the more justified by the fact that the article was deleted in 2004. 160 of the Code of Administrative Procedure, which was complementary to Article. 287 law on proceedings before administrative courts. Consequently, since the entry into force of the revision of the Civil Code in 2004, all courts generally regard Article as the main basis. 4171 §2 and refuse to do so. 287 law on proceedings before administrative courts. As regards the date of entry into force of the Act, it will enter into force on the day following the date of publication. Firstly, this is justified by the fact that the sole addressee of the law is the Public Prosecutor General of the Republic of Poland, and secondly, the aim is to align all laws on the law on proceedings before administrative courts with other provisions enabling the Public Prosecutor General to represent the interests of the State in judicial proceedings as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u61	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the President's representative related to the item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Komarnicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. Why doesn't the bill provide for vacathio legis? Does the applicant not consider that the implementation of the bill requires at least a 14-day vacathio legis?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u63	Senator, as I have already mentioned, the only recipient of these statutory standards is the Public Prosecutor General of the Republic of Poland. There are people there who know the law, and 14-day vacathio legis is not the term that would be indicated here. Due to the current state of law, after considering the scope of the proposed changes, the projector concluded that 14-day vacathio legis was not required here.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u64	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u65	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! According to the Senate Legislative Office, there is a reservation that there are no transitional provisions in the Act. Do you think these transitional provisions should be included in the bill? Could there be some kind of intertemporal collision here?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u66	Thank you very much. Senator, this is due to information obtained from the President of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland during a committee meeting when such reservations were raised in the Sejm. At the time, the President pointed out that there is currently no case in which transitional provisions are required, there is no case which would require a cassation action before the Supreme Administrative Court and there is no case in which compensation is to be determined on the basis of Article. 287 law on proceedings before administrative courts.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u67	Thank you very much, Minister. Are there any more questions? No. Minister, thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State of the Polish President's Office Anna Surówka-Pasek: Thank you.]] We also have a representative of the government, Minister Marcin Warchoł, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: No, thank you.]] Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister and Minister. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Regional Financial Chambers and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 528 and the report of the Commission In print No 528 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report on the meeting of the Joint Committees, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, which took place yesterday. At the meeting, the law on amending the Act on Regional Financial Chambers and certain other laws was examined. With regard to the subject-matter of the amendment, the aim of the Act is to strengthen the control and support functions of regional financial chambers in relation to the local government, which is intended to allow for a more effective fight against adverse trends related to the over-indebtedness of local government units and thereby strengthen the economic position of local government. The Act extends the scope of the cognition of chambers to legal persons which are directly or indirectly affected by local government units and their associations and local authorities. Chambers are granted the right to form long-distance teams under the new law. The Act amends the criteria for control by chambers. Under the new rules, depending on the type of entity controlled and the scope of its activities, the audit will be carried out in terms of legality, reliability, economy or purpose. At the same time, the law changes the classification of controls to comprehensive, problematic and ad hoc. These are the new concepts introduced by this Act. The Commission's law clarifies the procedure for carrying out checks by defining how documentation is to be drawn up and defining the rights and obligations of inspectors and controlled entities. As regards the method of drawing up the documentation, I would say that an important element of this law is the introduction of Many of the amended rules change the rules for the appointment and dismissal of members of the colleges of chambers. The Act resigned from the division of permanent and non-retatual members. The Act introduces only full-time members who... I mean, members of the chambers of colleges will be appointed for six-year terms, and the President of the Chamber will be able to perform this function for no more than two consecutive terms. The Act repeals the provisions setting out the grounds for the dismissal of members of colleges of chambers, leaving the President of the Council of Ministers free of charge in this respect. The Act clarifies the powers of the Presidents of Chambers, Deputy Presidents and Colleges. The Act also introduces arrangements for supervisory decisions taken in the event of a lack of effectiveness of local authorities in the performance of public tasks, including the establishment of a commission board, and issued in the event of repeated infringements by the executive authority, here comes into account a solution or its cancellation to enable the resolution of immediate enforceability, the removal of remuneration and the allowances of members of bodies who have committed irregularities. As regards the subject-matter of the Act, the Act also clarifies and regulates matters relating to entities, i.e. identify those who have the power, the legitimacy to lodge a complaint and introduce a uniform time limit for proceedings before the administrative courts of the first and second instance. This is a 30-day term. The transitional provisions include inter alia: extortion by law terms of office of former members of colleges of chambers. The Act is to enter into force 3 months after the date of publication, except for the provisions on supervisory decisions against local governments which are to enter into force 14 days after the date of publication, and the provisions on the employment relations of the members of the chambers which will enter into force on the day following the date of publication. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a government project. Representatives of associations, local government units and a representative of the chambers of accounts were invited to the committee meeting. In the course of the discussion, it was noted that the draft amendment of the law submitted to the Senate significantly deviates from the original government project. It was amended by introducing amendments in the course of work in the Parliamentary committees and adopted in such a way, after which the bill was sent to the Senate in such a way. Many allegations were raised, ranging from the unconstitutional nature of the laws to the end of the term of office of the Presidents of the chambers of accounts. Here the argument at the meeting of Minister Zdzikot's committee was that such situations also took place in the past and this is an acceptable form. It was also pointed out at the committee meeting that some of the laws amended by the Sejm were vague and therefore, during the meeting, the content of the article was somewhat denied. 9th Law and Art. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. Here on the side of the ministry... The Ministry has considered the subject of the amendments tabled and amendments will be tabled during the debate, which will, as a matter of fact, consummate the comments made by representatives of local government units, representatives of the chambers of account, as well as the senators. At the committee's meeting, a motion was made to reject the law, and the opposition then reported 13 amendments, if I recall correctly. These requests were not accepted by the committee. An application for adoption of the law was also submitted without amendment and this request was received 6 senators voted in favour, 4 votes against, 2 abstentions The committee's approval. I therefore request amendments to be tabled during the debate on behalf of the Joint Committees for the adoption of the law as proposed by the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u69	Thank you very much. I would ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Piotr Flork, to present the conclusions of the minority committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u70	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The report shall be published in print No 528 A. As the rapporteur said, the minority proposal is a motion to reject the law. There's also some adjustments. They are not 13 because some have been combined, those in which Article is deleted. 17, 18, 19, so that they are not separate amendments, they are combined, with a total of 8 amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, what is this bill about? Why is she unacceptable? Why will all self-governments protest against this bill? And I think the Senate will, too. In particular, those with local government experience know how local governments work. The thing is, RIO After this amendment, they will practically be subjected to government administration. I'll tell you why. I think there was a much simpler way to subpoena the RIO government so as not to pretend that's not the point. In each voivodship office there is a department of control and supervision, so, if that were to be the case, these tasks could be transferred to the office, to the control and surveillance department and that would be more or less the same as we are doing at the moment. The supervision of the voivodship on resolutions, regulations of individual administrative bodies must be distinguished and the tasks of the regional audit chamber must be understood. In order for these local authorities to operate independently, but for them to be cost-effective, regional clearing houses are set up. And these were decisions taken after the change of the system in Poland. It is also necessary to explain what supervision is and what control is, so as not to confuse it, because I see that it is very wrong at the moment, also on the side of regional accounting chambers. And that's why it's clear that it would be easier to pass on these tasks. There would be no need to make so many changes which, in my opinion, lead to the same, i.e. the submission of regional government departments. This is due to clear indications. Several of these indications can be given immediately. What does that tell you? First of all, it is the presidents of regional chambers and members of the college, who have so far been elected in competitions. Now all this has been transferred to the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers. Depending on who it is, either the Minister or the President of the RIO in this case it is the members of the college. It shall give its opinion on the nomination and send a letter to the President of the Council of Ministers. And we are faced with such a situation that all members of the college are appointed by the President of the Council of Ministers. Few of those who have worked there have been treated badly. These are people with great experience, and to acquire such experience... If we do the exchange in the regional accounting chambers in a moment, people with experience will be gone. Surely, the vast majority will leave and no one will know who will remain there. Those people who have experience and who have worked in regional accounting chambers before will be treated in such a way that... Well, the presidents and vice presidents are 2 months from the entry into force of the law and either they get a proposal or they don't get it. If they don't, goodbye. As far as college members are concerned, they're four months old. And they're gonna be waiting these four months, too. They're not gonna get a proposal, that means they're not working anymore. No briefings, no protection, not even for pregnant women, not to mention vacations, pre-retirement age, etc. There's no protection. The Minister said at the meeting that they would take care of pregnant women and that they would take this into account, indicating those who would be released. This concerns a small group of people. I don't know how many people work in regional accounting chambers, but I think that all of them together are maybe 250.260, so it's not that big a group, but it's the end of relationships in a way that hasn't really been in any law yet. Now, of course, I move on to the substantive comments. It's about what's changing, the way we judge, and so on. We know from the bill that the organs of the chambers are colleges. It's written in the bill and nothing changes there. If I recall correctly, Art. 14 says that the authority of the Chamber is the College of Chambers, and now in this law we introduce something that the College, whose composition, depending on the Regional Chamber, could count from a dozen to perhaps twenty people, as was the case in the Mazowieckie College... Now we're bringing in something quite new that hasn't been in judgment so far. The College acts as a whole, but the different formations will be able to rule in 3 persons, so in one college there will be a number of formations that will be able to judge according to the choice of... Here is an example of the Constitutional Court. We are dealing with a similar situation here, but in any case the government administration has full control, because it selects all members. There is no longer a participation of the local government, and before that the local authorities could also submit candidates. All of this has been eliminated from this bill, and so there has been a full takeover of control. And now these formations are being created. What's the deal with the courtrooms? Now the resolutions of municipalities, seymists and powiats will be controlled in terms of... Of course, we still remember what the voivode controls and what the regional Chamber of Financial Affairs controls. They will be controlled by these 3-person warehouses, and if such a 3-person composition decides that the resolution will be annulled, it will be necessary to decide the supervisory decision of the municipality of such a municipality. And depending on your competence, you're gonna have to replace all of this. Well, if it turns out that the municipality won't approve the budget, then who gives the municipality the budget? All state government officials know that if you do not approve it, it will be given to a regional chamber, which is again a college. And it's also about time, because the case goes to the courtroom first, then it's going to have to go to college, and it's all 30 days, or it's even shorter. So I am convinced that the introduction of this reform in its current form, as it was broken in the Seym... and that is what we have to say, because the government can and had good initiative. I don't know exactly what the first project was, I don't know what it looked like, because then there were so many changes... But we do know that these changes have taken place. The Minister explained that the opposition had tabled amendments that were going in the right direction so that there would be competitions to fire people... When asked about the opposition, the Minister said that Kukiz had called it in15. But when I looked at a little bit of these changes and whoever made these changes, I saw Parliamentary Club Law and Justice everywhere. So in general, it was the club that made these changes. So, after these changes to the law that were introduced at the Sejm meeting, what came out of the Sejm has little to do with the government project, which was prosecuted at the beginning. In our view, therefore, this law should be rejected and not messed up in local governments. Let the local governments manage themselves. There was also talk of economy, and the Minister said that in one of the municipalities I even wrote it down somewhere, but I don't know if I can find it. There were some cases of parabanks, loans, etc., with a population of 2.5,000. Well, there have been such cases, maybe there have been 2 or 3 of them over the years in Poland, but as we look at recent years, we will see that local governments have generally reduced their debt. So there is no big problem in local governments to adopt such a restrictive law. What else does it mean? She still means this. And that's what's important. That if he shows up... It's all about economy, and it's just... [[Voice from the room: Important issue...]] I is listed in the Act in which cases 'Cause it's not like in all cases The President of the Council of Ministers will be able to cancel the mayor, the president, the district board, the voivodship board, all these bodies, but also the council, i.e. the council of the municipality, the district council and the council of the voivodship... So they can be canceled. And what's worse about all this is that there's still an immediate feasibility rigour in there. Well, that's even... What's there to talk about? Well, it turns out that the uncle will be able to be called off immediately. Of course, he'll be able to complain, but it's unclear again, because the organ that's been canceled... The council doesn't, the Seymour doesn't exist, because we have the rigor of immediate feasibility, but the board will then file a complaint, appeal against this decision of the President. But how is he supposed to do that? It's completely unclear. This is not described in the bill, so it is not known what it will look like. So there are still such dangers in this bill. Therefore, I, as a self-government officer, but also a councilman, and a sejm of the voivodship, clearly state that this law is very bad for the local government. Its introduction will cause a lot of unnecessary complications. Well, unless it's about the government having... so that the local governments aren't as independent as they are. But this is our country... These self-governments will only exist theoretically, because they'll practically be gone, because they'll have... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u71	Thank you very much to the rapporteur for the minority. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I see you have Senator Władysław Komarnicki in writing. And then you'll be Senator Sławomir Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u72	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur, if I may ask him... Dear Senator, my first question is: why did the government in this law exclude, delete the possibility of the host of the province, i.e. by the sejmik, the organization of regional accounting chambers, and thus what concerns this region? [[That's more like the minister's question.]] My question comes from an autopsy because I was vice-president of the Sejm, and I know how sensitive the Sejm is to these matters of knowledge. And my second question. The Act introduces a system of appointment by the Prime Minister at the request of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of both the Presidents and the Colleges of Financial Chambers. What's that gonna do? Well, they will be completely subject to government administration. In this connection, I ask how this applies to the idea of self-government. This is, to be honest, an attempt on local governments.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u73	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, to answer the first question... At the very beginning, you pointed out the recipient of this question. I will say that I did not follow the work on the law of the government project, then the changes made at the meetings of the Sejm committees, and I do not know at which point the Sejm as an opinion body was excluded from this law. I propose to ask this question to the current Minister. As far as the second question is concerned, you were talking about calling... [[It's premiere.]] ...premiere. However, if I remember correctly the content of the bill, this is done at the request of the President of the Chamber addressed to the Minister responsible, who is submitting it to the Prime Minister, which is the President of the Chamber directs the request. What's that gonna do? Let me put it this way: as far as the entire content of the bill is concerned, there are several provisions in relation to the original content of the law. One of the provisions that were not previously included in the Act is the criminal record, it was not the subject of regulation of the Act. I don't know if you, Mr. Senator, have noticed that there is a revised article in place. 15 in which e.g. paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 4a is a criterion for the appointment of a person as a member of a college, a criterion that is not punishable by the prohibition of public resources, as referred to in the Law on Liability for Discipline of Public Finance. So, as I understand it, under the previous law, those who were punished may have been members of colleges. This is one example. I would also like to draw your attention, Mr. Senator, to one unchanged, which I will mark, the article of the bill. Art. 1 paragraph 1: The Regional Audit Chambers, hereinafter referred to as "the Chambers," are the national supervisory and financial management control authorities of the entities referred to in paragraph. 2. They are state-owned, not self-government, only state-owned supervisory authorities. So I think that's also the answer to your question. Here's the competence in terms of, so to speak, supervision or in terms of election of presidents, members of colleges by government administration... I think that's a good direction, since they're national supervisory authorities.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u75	Thank you very much. Senator Sławomir Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I, too, have a question for the rapporteur. Mr. Senator, during the committee's work, were the opinions of constitutional experts, lawyers, constitutional law specialists at all taken into account? I ask because I have the impression that the project is breaking the constitution, which provides for supervision of local governments only in terms of legality, i.e. compliance of local government activities with the law. The project also equips regional clearing houses with a tool of study in terms of purpose. Were there constitutionalists' opinions on this matter? And what did they sound like in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u77	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. To answer this question directly, I would say that there were no representatives, as you said, of the legal community, of the constitutionalists. As I pointed out in my report at the outset, there was a charge from the senators that the bill might raise doubts, but the presumption of constitutionality... For each act, the presumption of constitutionality and non-constitutionality of the act must be demonstrated. In the second part of the question, in some way in connection, you asked about the criterion of purpose. Here, too, the response from the ministry was quite precise, so to speak. This purpose criterion will be taken into account by the RIO, the study will only apply to public funds, not to local resources, to own resources, only to funds which the local authorities are financed directly from the state budget. Only these measures will be examined for purpose.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u79	Thank you very much. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u80	That's the question. also to the rapporteur, Senator. Firstly, I would like to know if local governments were invited to attend such an important meeting. And if so, what were their opinions? Secondly, was the opinion of the Commission of the Joint Government and the Territorial Government presented and known to the committee? And thirdly, was the Legal Office's opinion presented? 'Cause in the materials that we have here, I'm not a member of the committee responsible. There is no such opinion. Was such an opinion presented? And if so, what was she like, especially with regard to constitutional compatibility, when it comes to not art. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Three, but my lips. One and two? Because, in my opinion, they are clearly violating the rules that Senator Rybicki was talking about, because there is still control of legality in terms of reliability and economy. And so my last question is, was it explained what it means to control integrity? Has it been specified what that means? 'Cause I do. I can say that the rapporteur is ill-prepared today and I will ask someone to verify it, or I will consider that something is uneconomic, and I have no definition of this... So please tell us whether it was said, what definitions, what concepts we refer to in terms of reliability and cost-effectiveness. These are my four questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u81	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'm answering the first question. Visitors from local authorities were invited to the committee meeting, representatives, if I remember correctly, of the association of municipalities and powiats. There was also a representative of the association of municipalities and powiats, which in a very critical way referred to the law. His statement showed that, in general, increasing any supervision is unnecessary in his assessment, that the system that is currently functioning is a functioning system... I am, as a matter of fact, shortening the speech of your local government representative here. And here I will link this question to your second question, Senator, about the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission. It was the representative of the local authorities who pointed out that the project, which was the subject of the opinion of the Commission of the Joint Government and the Local Government, was the original project, that was the presentation of government before the quite significant changes introduced during the legislative process in the Sejm. That, too, was part of the criticism of your local government representative. As regards the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, the opinion of the Legislative Office was submitted as much as possible before the committee meeting. According to the Legislative Bureau, there is no reference to the constitutionality of this law. The opinion contains 3 specific comments. The first remark was a point of order, a more technical legislative nature, which Minister Zdzikot, the Government's representative, considered unnecessary... He felt that such a change was not necessary. That's exactly what he said. That, in his opinion, She's not necessary. There was also a remark referring precisely to the feasibility of the Article. 97b on salaries and allowances of councillors, wojites, mayors. And when it comes to repealing the final decision and taking away such persons' wages, here was a remark that neither found, so to speak, acceptance by the representatives of the Ministry. Here, too, there was a justification, and in the course of the justification several times it was argued by the representative of the Minister, as well as by the rapporteur, that this law was quite, one can say, deeply analysed by the Legislative Office of the Sejm and this office did not pay attention to such shortcomings of the bill. The third point concerned the provision of the Article. 9 Act in conjunction with Article. 14 point 2. At the beginning of my report, I pointed out that during the debate, amendments would be tabled to consume this third attention of the Legislative Office. This was also a point directed by the senators present at the committee meeting. And your fourth question about reliability and cost-effectiveness... No, at the meeting... [[Were there any of those concepts...]] [[In the NIK Act...]] [[They're..]] No, those concepts weren't discussed. I don't know if... Probably the definitions of these concepts are contained in other legal acts. Like my friends say here, in the NIK Act. These are the criteria. And here... Well, the previous records concerned the compliance of the documentation with the facts. I will read the previous records carefully: 5. And the current entry is: on the basis of the criterion of legality and fairness. I think this concept is defined. The same is true of the concept of economy It's also, I think, somewhere... There is a definition of this concept somewhere in Polish legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u83	Thank you very much. Senator Józef Zając asks a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u84	I have the following question, the problem. The Regional Audit Chamber will assess the performance of local governments in terms of reliability and economy. How, then, will actions resulting from adopted civic budgets, whose objective is defined by social needs be assessed?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u85	Which senator? [[To the rapporteur.]] To the rapporteur. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Well, an interesting question Mr. Senator raised here. Let me put it this way: this was not the subject of a committee meeting and no one has ever asked such a question before. I don't know, but maybe I'd ask for an answer from government officials during... Because, like I said, it wasn't... And that's an interesting, very interesting question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u87	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senators of the rapporteurs? Senator Zdrojewska and Senator Augustyn, good. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u88	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Senator Flork a question, because the Senator rapporteur is a question as if he had slightly missed, and I think it is quite important. I think Senator Komarnicki asked them at first. What we're talking about here is getting into the community's competence, and we know... most of us have local government experience, some of us have very long experience. We know exactly what the main task of the council is. It is the council of the municipality that is to assess the economy, reliability and financial decisions taken by the presidents or wojites. And I would just like to address to Senator Flork the question of whether what we are talking about is not replacing the councils of the municipalities and entering their basic right to judge the integrity and economy of the president or the governor. And the other thing. I'd like to... That's where I'm going to ask you straightaway. Because we have a year and a half of experience from the PiS government and we know what situations have taken place following the introduction of various so-called laws. staff, which simply resulted in the dismissal of people employed so far and the appointment of new workers. I would like the senator to focus on this and explain the consequences of the complete departure of these excellent, qualified staff and the consequences of the appointment of completely new members of the colleges. I also ask you to clarify the rules on which these new members would be recruited and appointed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u89	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u90	As for the assessment of economy by the councils and municipalities... Economics, of course, is a very judgmental matter. In the NIK Act, the mismanagement is more or less specific, but of course it is highly assessed. That's why local governments were formed... Because in addition to the state administration is government administration and local government administration. And that's why, among other things. local governments have been set up to manage properly in their territory and the financial resources they have in their budget... In general, it's the mayor, the president or the council that's being settled for this economy, for investment, for everything they're doing in every election. Therefore, the election shall carry out a major evaluation of the functioning of the Council. Of course, the council of the municipality at its meetings, etc. It also evaluates the projects submitted by the authority, by the uncle, issuing opinions on this subject, but, as I said, it is a matter of evaluation. If anybody wants to, and a team of 3 people, maybe without experience, I'm going through practically the second question. Who will be appointed will have to assess the economy... Well, we don't know if everyone, but we can expect almost all members to be canceled. And, of course, the three-person composition appointed by the President in the college will assess this economy. If he judges, we'll see. If he evaluates her very negatively... It's not like for everything, for every shortcoming, any violation of the rule, you can cancel your uncle, the president, etc.; it is mentioned in the Act, for which, mainly, it concerns matters relating to the management of financial resources, etc. But theoretically, it's a possibility. Thus, if this three-person formation comes to such a conclusion, then the President of the Council of Ministers will have the opportunity, if such an appearance occurs, to dismiss the person in question from his post, to introduce the committee board, and then, as I said, there will be a whole procedure. Maybe you can appeal to... Yeah, you can, but what it's gonna look like, it's hard to say. As for the employees, of course, those competitions that took place... The minister at the committee meeting said that 12 regional chambers held these competitions, because it lasted, but there was no decision to set up. This bill is supposed to cut through... those competitions that have been so far, it's gone, and again, but no more competitions, just with certain requirements... Well, there are certain requirements that need to be met in order to be able to run. And, of course, the government will have nothing to say about these candidates either. And depending on whether we choose the president or vice presidents, there's a different procedure, because at the same time the competent minister reports to the president... As regards the members of the college, the President of the Chamber shall first apply to the competent minister and then to the President of the Council of Ministers. That's the order. So it is to be expected that... generally, as it happens, every law of this kind that passes through the Senate is a staff bill, so there is quite a significant exchange. It is clear that there is a delay in the appointment of those who have been elected, and it is therefore expected that they will be in 12 regional chambers. We'll find out soon enough. They were still not presidents. Well, the thing is, the president may be two terms, but I'm not going to discuss all the details anymore. However, as I was saying, regarding the treatment of employees who worked... This is really outrageous, because knowledge, experience... Anyway, we can say that this is also happening at a number of levels right now, because we can say this about the military, about the police, where there are a lot of people with a lot of experience leaving work, who are forced to do so, canceled, people at a young age, 50 years old... Well, apparently we're such a rich country that we can afford it, but in this case, there's a situation that isn't here... When these dates are two months and four months, depending on whether you're president or just a member... Well, everyone's gonna wait until the last day, whether they get the offer or not. If he doesn't get a proposal, goodbye, no three-month check-in, get yourself a job, unfortunately. In particular, as we pointed out in the committee, it is about pregnant women, women, people of pre-retirement age. Well, that rule, that bill doesn't work, which means any of these people can be fired. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u92	I also have questions for Senator Flork. Mr. Senator, has there been any detailed information in the committee on the severity of the irregularities in local governments that would justify such far-reaching changes requiring greater control over local authorities? Has there been any reference to any data here? If so, what is it? Second line. Did it say why these periodic, comprehensive controls were abandoned and the new RIO was given the right to carry out comprehensive controls, could it be said, at any time, at any time? Was this issue discussed? Because that's the change that the wording of the RIO for 4 years carry out a comprehensive check, disappears. Once every four years, and it does it comprehensively whenever it wants, today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow... was it said that since RIO it can control economy and reliability, so it imposes on the powers of the Supreme Audit Chamber, which, as far as I know, seems to control local governments annually, at least elected local authorities, in this respect? Now it will be so that separately both, as often and so on. Was this collision of competence mentioned?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u93	Thank you, Senator. Please answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u94	Mr. Senator, the Minister said I guess even I asked, as I recall. The fact that there are 2 and 3 municipalities in Poland, maybe several municipalities that actually had problems with budgets that were over-indebted. It was mostly about parabanks, so they couldn't use it and borrow it. If they didn't have the opportunity, then they were also looking for a way to finance it. But there were a few cases that the Minister mentioned, and I wrote down the Ostrowice municipality. I think it's in West Pomeranian, because I know that the chairman of the committee, Mr Piotr Zientarski, explained that it is not what it is said about the debt of this municipality. This is a municipality that has 2,5 thousand inhabitants, and the debt was for some million zlotys. So that there were such cases in Poland, occasional, but I would like to remind you that there are also other possibilities to enforce that these municipalities do not indebt in this way. But the municipalities in Poland have 2.5 thousand, so on one or two occasions we cannot build such a theory that we have to watch these wojets, the mayors, because they will be afraid in a moment. They're gonna get scared. making any decisions, the same advice will start to fear, because they will be settled e.g. with economy and will not know whether the President of the Council of Ministers is about to try to call off such a governor, mayor, president, council, voivodeship board or district boards. So they're gonna be scared of it. For 2, 3 cases where a case can be resolved differently, such a restrictive bill is introduced... Well, of course, it's a matter of judgment, and any one of us can judge that. As to this part of the senator's question regarding municipalities, powiats, also voivodships, in the context of the financial means As I recall, it was given an example from the years 2012 and 2014. In those years... The debt of local governments is decreasing significantly, the debt of local governments is decreasing. He's not that tall... There are limitations, however, and it is defined to what extent the municipality may be indebted to. There was no such alarm, no noise, that one should quickly introduce such a law, because there is no increase in debt. It's the opposite. The debt of local governments is decreasing. About the complex... As I recall, at the committee meeting there was no mention of the time limits in which these particular checks, which were included... This subject, like the others involved in the audit, at the committee's meeting, I think... Well, that's not my opinion. I'm talking about what happened at the committee meeting. We didn't talk about it at the committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u95	Thank you very much. Senator Sławomir Rybicki, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u96	Thank you very much. I also have a question for Senator Flork, the minority rapporteur. Mr Senator mentioned that he was appalled by the fact that the Act shuts out workers' employment relations before the end of their term of office, especially those protected: pregnant women, those under pre-retirement protection. I would like to ask if there were opinions during the committee's work... Maybe there were trade union representatives at the meeting. If so, what was their opinion on the matter? Were the opinions of professionals on the labour law code presented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u97	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u98	As regards the persons present at the committee meeting, it was there, among others. Madam President of the National Chamber and you representing... I've written down my name somewhere, but I don't know if I can find it now. [[The commune union...]] Yes, representing the community union. I think it's just these two people... No, there was another lady who spoke. It was you from the local government of Mazowieckie Voivodeship, if I recall. She said... The system changes that the law introduces concerning municipal, district and voivodship government... She referred to these changes with regard to the regional government. As far as I'm concerned, the President of the National Regional Chamber also spoke on this subject. Anyway, we've been talking, we've been discussing solving these working relationships. I even asked the Minister a question. I may now repeat them immediately so that I do not take the floor, how many people are involved, what is the employment in regional accounting chambers at the moment, how many people are in individual voivodships, because these are different data. The important thing would be... As such a law prepares, as such things are brought in, it seems to me that you know how many people are of pre-retirement age, how many are on maternity leave. How many ladies are pregnant... This could change because the bill will come into force in three months. In any case, you have to prepare yourself, because it also involves employment... The president was talking about the organisation of the chamber, about the financial resources. 'Cause if it were a three-month check-in, it would take money. There's no secure means, so it's hard for you to be here in some way, although part of these people... I keep stressing that these are people who have years of experience, some of them have been working since the beginning of the 1990s. In my opinion, it will be difficult for these chambers to function if there is a radical exchange in all these positions. Anyway, at the committee meeting, the matter of worker protection came up, and we talked about it, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u99	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jan Rulewski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u100	Question for both rapporteurs. If they are unable to answer, the Minister, I think, will remember this question and answer it. You mentioned, Senator Florek, that, according to your experience, a large and at the same time the fact that you are out of a job will result in a lack of continuity in the office's work. There are thousands of citizens in the RIO. In Warsaw alone, probably several thousand cases are dealt with each year. There are even accusations of official crimes involving delay in handling cases. And I have a question for your rapporteurs: won't the continuity that Senator Florek has stressed adversely affect decisions and even damages for failure to act?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u101	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome. Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, if I remember the laws correctly, the continuity will be maintained because until the appointment of the new President of the Chamber will be carried out by the current President. As for... it will also be a matter of changing college members. It's not gonna be an immediate exchange. I do not think that this is an immediate exchange, even in view of the criteria that these people must meet, the criteria that have been extended. I would like to point out here one thing that my previous speaker, Senator Florek, did not notice. The senator said it was a staff bill. Well, in your opinion, maybe. But the criteria for appointments to colleges or presidents here have been extended to include, for example, the criteria relating to the scientific community, and this has not been noticed. In addition to working in units connected with the functioning of the local government, the pursuit of scientific or teaching activities related to the functioning of the local government or public finances is included here. In addition to denying that this is a staff law, there is a six-year term calculated in a way that is not backwards. The Ministry's justification was that the Ministry did not want to rule out the possibility of re-appointed the current presidents. This is a procedure so that these people can perform this function also under the current law. There's one more thing I have to correct. Senator Florek seems to have missed his tongue or not fully read it, because he pointed out here... he presented such a vision that the formations of the courts will determine the budget of the municipalities if the municipalities do not do so. I'd like to... [[No. I was just talking about college.]] Well, then I misunderstood. This is the exclusive competence of the College of Arts. 18. I didn't hear it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u103	Thank you very much. Would Senator Florek like to comment on Senator Rulewski's question? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u104	I can only add, Mr. Senator, that the president who was present at the sitting was talking about these deadlines, about the fact that a month... Now there's going to be such duality in chambers. Other tasks will be tasks of the college and other formations of the court. In this case, when we say... There will still be a budget, there will be an opinion. There is still a case in point that the formations of the courts will assess certain cases in accordance with the law. This will go to the courthouse and he will decide. This is another case we haven't talked about, another very questionable case, which, if we pass on this, will come out and there will be another problem. The President stressed that, after the changes, it is expected that the deadlines will actually not be met. The consequences of this, like the senator said, may be different.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u105	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the senators of the rapporteurs? There isn't. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Today we have Minister Jarosław Zieliński, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Yes.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u106	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Thank you for giving me the floor. I would like to say a few words about this law from the point of view of the government as an applicant, as an entity implementing this bill, and also, if your Marshal permits, to answer some of the questions that have emerged and which have also appeared during the parliamentary work. Although I did not participate in these works, I allowed myself some questions that appeared then to be noted. Perhaps it would be easier for me to discuss further if I could answer them. The genesis of the draft law was related to the need to address the negative trends in over-indebtedness of local government units. However, during the analysis of this problem, the idea was to better regulate it in the current legislation. Undoubtedly, this debt has a negative impact on the financial, economic condition of the local authorities themselves and, consequently, also on the state. For example, already cited The Kazus of Ostrowice Municipality in West Pomeranian Voivodeship, whose debt recently amounted to almost 400%, could be used as a risk to public finances of increasing debt. the annual budget. Importantly, there are currently no adequate control mechanisms for a rapid and effective diagnosis of the situation and potential threats to public finances. The audit powers held by the Audit Chambers today do not fully cover the financial activity of the local government. In this way, there is a legal gap: a kind of rift It can and can be used to the detriment of local government finances and public finances in general. The Act presented to the ladies and gentlemen of the Senators covers both changes that improve the control activities of the Regional Audit Chambers themselves, and changes that optimise the achievement of the objectives of the audit and supervisory activities of those chambers. These changes include, first of all, the extension of the control activities of the Chambers by including legal persons which are individually or jointly, directly or indirectly affected by local government units. This effect may be manifested in particular by holding more than half of the shares or shares, holding more than half of the votes resulting from the shares or shares, supervising the management body, having the right to appoint more than half of the composition of the supervisory or management body. It is precisely this influence which, through such activities, through such circumstances of local government units, metropolitan unions, associations of local government units, associations of local government units and other local and local organisational units, including local legal entities. Secondly, I am talking about significant changes in the form of an instrument creating the President of the Chamber to inform the competent authority supervising the audited entity of the fact that the audited entity has failed to notify the enforcement of control requests or of unjustified failure to comply with them, which is necessary in particular in situations where persistent non-compliance is repeated. In this respect, a complementary change was introduced at the stage of the Parliament's work by extending the criteria for the control of local government units to include a cost-effectiveness criterion, as already mentioned by the senators in the area of the so-called. debt instruments and the criterion of reliability. This criterion of reliability was asked about it, so maybe I'll answer it right away. In particular, it concerns the compatibility of documents with the facts. It's about assessing the compatibility between documents and reality. This amendment provides for important solutions to include the supervisory procedure for resolutions amending the budgetary resolution of local government units, as well as resolutions on the multiannual financial forecast or the revision thereof. An important change, for example from the point of view of the purpose of establishing State control and its effectiveness, is also the introduction of an obligation to notify by regional audit chambers, in connection with supervisory and control activities, law enforcement authorities with a legitimate suspicion of a crime or offence. The Act, which is the subject of today's proceedings, also includes changes concerning the organisation of regional chambers of accounts, together with a greater opening of access to work in chambers. And that's worth noticing. This includes the fact that the status of a member of the college of the Chamber will be eligible not only for persons with at least 4 years' working experience in units connected with the functioning of local government or public finances, but also for persons with at least 4 years' scientific and teaching experience. The law also takes into account proposals to seal anti-corruption bans by prohibiting the appointment of a member of the college of persons punished by a ban on public resources. In addition, the amendment contains a number of provisions governing the Regional Financial Chambers Act, e.g. As regards the tasks of the National Regional Council of the Board of Auditors, it implements certain control behaviours This is the lack of information on the implementation of the follow-up requests, which I have already mentioned. or remove the gap by guaranteeing that the deputy president is responsible for the operation of the Chamber in the event of the death of the President. I would like to point out here that at the stage of work in the Sejm for the government project I would like to add here that the government project had a positive positive opinion of the Commission of the Joint Government and the Territorial Government, among other things, provisions have been introduced. amending the rules for the appointment and dismissal of the Presidents of the Chambers and members of the Colleges, with a view to simplifying the recruitment procedure, introducing a limit of the term of office of the Presidents to the two successive term of office, extending the criteria for control by the Regional Audit Chambers of the financial management of local government units with a cost-effectiveness criterion, but only, once again, in respect of debt titles, and a criterion of reliability. Maybe I'll mention here the definition of debt titles, because I think it's worth it. Debt titles are the titles of the public finance sector's public debt commitments. Debt instruments include issued securities relating to monetary claims, borrowings, accepted deposits, outstanding liabilities. Provisions have also been added to transfer the burden of supervisory case-law from the college to three judicial formations, but at the same time the possibility of referring a complex case to the college, i.e. to an enlarged judicial body. Art. 18 laws define those matters which must be dealt with by the College. But at the same time, there is the possibility that more difficult, more complex cases should be directed towards a resolution by the College and not by three judges. There have already been questions about whether such practice is in other institutions. Of course it is. She's basically common. She wasn't just in the regional accounting chambers. So would we call here the judicial authorities, whether the Constitutional Tribunal, or... Well, maybe on this one... [[Courts.]] Yes, the courts, of course. Well, there's an obvious practice. I was also thinking about the Supreme Chamber of Control and how they settle there, but I'm not sure about that. Other important changes to the amendment and to other laws, I will mention that there are changes in the Local Government Act, the District Government Act and the Regional Government Act, according to which the President of the Council of Ministers will be able to give immediate authorisation to supervisory decisions concerning: first, the cancellation or termination of the executive body of the local government units and the appointment of a person who, pending the selection of the new authority, will be able to act as the President of the Council of Ministers. In the event of repeated violations of the Constitution or of laws and of an unsuccessful call by the voivod to cease the infringements; secondly, the suspension of the authorities of local government units and the establishment of a committee board for up to 2 years in the event of a rapid improvement and a prolonged lack of effectiveness in the performance of public tasks by the authorities of local government units. However, I would like to add that the rigour of immediate feasibility will only be possible in two cases, namely when the finances of the local government unit are collapsed and when the authorities of that unit do not carry out their tasks for at least 6 months. An immediate supervisory intervention will enable the Government Commissioner to take corrective action as soon as the supervisory decision has been taken. In the current state of law, due to the multi-month judicial procedures prior to the enforcement of the act of supervision, the government commissioner may start his work even a few months after the decision is reached, depending on the time at which these decisions are decided as to their validity. During this time he progresses e.g. degradation of local government finances, as was the case even in the case of the municipality Ostrowice mentioned above. Among those questions that appeared during previous work Also today, this question has been asked about the situation related to the debt of local government units. I would like to answer this question immediately to the extent that this knowledge for today... in which this knowledge was available at 31 December 2016, because this is data at the end of 2016. Only 90 municipalities in almost 2,5 thousand municipalities in Poland and 5 counties did not show debts from debt titles. In the debt range of up to 30%, there were 2,012 local government units. In the highest debt range, i.e. more than 60% of the income generated, there were 63 local government units, in the range of 50% to 60%. 72 local government units; 40.50% 206 local government units; 30-40% 455 local government units. As you can see, these are not individual examples, the problem is serious and concerns many local government units. And it's not, like one of the senators here suggested, a legal response to individual cases. They are not individual. As far as the other issues are concerned, if Mr. Marshal will allow me, I would like to answer a few more questions, as I mentioned earlier, from those that have appeared, which have been identified somehow by me. There was, for example, an appearance. the question of the reasons for broadening the criteria for control of local government units to include economy, reliability. Complementing the legality criterion with the criteria of economy and reliability was proposed in the original draft government law. However, as a result of the arrangements with the local government, the government withdrew from this change. By the way, this change has been assessed by the Legislative Council as being in line with the Constitution. At the stage of work in the Sejm, Members proposed an amendment supplementing the audit criteria with the criteria for reliability and cost-effectiveness. As a justification, it was argued that already at present, among others. The Public Finance Act can be used to extract control elements based on these criteria of economy and reliability. It is also worth noting that regional audit chambers, although they have the status of state control authorities specialized in the control of the financial management of local government units, this was underlined, these are state authorities. They do not have adequate tools and control instruments, as has been pointed out, among others. The Supreme Board of Control. Moreover, the Supreme Audit Chamber, dealing only with the ad hoc control of local government units, optionally, has the possibility to control using all the above criteria. There was a question about the term of office when the presidents and members of the colleges were appointed. The six-year term of office of the Presidents of the Chambers is already in force, and as a result of the parliamentary amendments, the division into permanent and non-retirement members has been abolished, who have just had a six-year term, leaving the institution of the members of the Colleges with a six-year term. Leaving this term of office is intended to ensure the stability of the performance of the duties and at the same time to allow for periodic verification of the quality of the work done and necessary, let's call it the fluctuating of the staff after 12 years if it were two full terms. There was also a question of why there is a reduction in the number of terms of office. Posted in Art. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 The limitation of the term of office of the President of the Chamber shall be introduced in order to ensure efficient and effective management of the Boards of Governors, so as to enable the necessary rotation of the staff already mentioned. The period of 12 years seems to be maximum twice after 6 years. Of course, it can be discussed, but it seems that this is a long enough period to ensure the smooth management of the Chamber and demonstrate competence and then create opportunities for others who refresh the teams of regional accounting chambers, also exercising the functions of the Presidents. From questions worth noting at this stage... Exactly, there was also the issue of constitutionality and various reservations related to independence, autonomy of local government. I think Senator Florek even said that I wrote it down so that local governments could manage themselves. Well, it's different with this management. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It can be good and it can be bad, so that there should be a state control in this area, in my opinion, should not raise doubts. The provisions of the Act do not change the current conditions for the introduction of the board of directors or the dissolution of local authorities. The proposals contained in the Act are intended to make existing supervisory instruments more effective so that the introduction of a commission board or the cancellation of an executive body in the case of self-governments in poor financial condition or those whose authorities do not perform their tasks for more than 6 months is immediately feasible. It is important to remember that although there are a small number of local governments whose authorities do not manage to perform their duties and act to the detriment of the inhabitants, such local authorities do exist. In such cases, assistance from the government and supervisory authorities will be applied in order to bring this entity out of trouble. Let us remind you that there is no such institution as the bankruptcy of the local government. This isn't a company. Here, it cannot be achieved that the government will cease to carry out public tasks in the longer term and that someone else will take over these tasks. That's not an option. The proposed solutions guarantee judicial protection to local authorities as the supervisory measures applied will be subject to judicial review. There was also a question about the mode, the way in which the controls were carried out. These will be planned checks • every 4 years each unit of local government should be checked • problems and ad hoc checks. The control and surveillance authority must be able to react immediately in the cases which require it to do so. Besides, the Supreme Audit Chamber is a good example here, because that is where these three different types of controls exist. I mentioned the doubts about whether the stores... In the Supreme Chamber of Control, however, it is different because there are no collegiate bodies there, so that I withdraw from that association. However, when it comes to the method of carrying out checks, the types of checks, this may be a good comparison. And there was also the question of why the government restricts the autonomy of local governments, calling in place of the democratically elected authorities of its Commissioners. I have already mentioned that the provisions of this project do not change the conditions currently existing in local government legislation for possible introduction of the board of directors or appeals, the dissolution of authorities of local government units. The proposals contained in the government project are intended to make this mechanism more effective. As regards any doubts as to whether or not a provision is in conformity with the Constitution, it seems that the ruling in the discussion should be done with great caution, because until a provision has been declared incompatible with the Constitution by an authority entitled to do so, it is only possible to express an opinion. You can of course discuss everything, each of us can express our opinion, but for no one it is not a binding opinion. It's just a discussion. I would therefore suggest a far-reaching restraint in individual judgment and even in the ruling by the entire High House of such a thing, because neither the Sejm nor the Senate determine whether the rules are compatible with the Constitution, but the Constitutional Tribunal does so. So this is where you really need to be careful. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude this speech I don't want to talk too long, especially since the senators have already explained a lot of things to me. I just want to say that the government is convinced that the bill is needed. It is very important to improve the operation of the regional financial chambers themselves, in order to improve the situation in local governments, which will require this. It's about more effective response mechanisms, it's about caring about the finances of the local governments themselves, so it's really also about the government. What's there to say? That's the way to put it. For the fate of local residents, as well as for public finances in general, because no municipality operates in isolation, it is not a desert island, but it operates within the whole state, so its condition affects public finances. As far as debt is concerned, I would like to bring up another thread. There is a problem with the assessment of real debt due to the fact that it is also necessary to examine institutions subject to local government, even municipal companies, and only then will it be possible to assess the state of the finances of local governments in their entirety. This law gives this possibility to control institutions subordinate to local government units, which will certainly influence a more objective view of this problem and allow for proper response. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u107	Thank you, Minister. Wait a minute, Minister, because now there will be questions. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: I will be waiting on site.]] Good. At present, senators may submit questions to a representative of the government on the agenda for a maximum of one minute. A few people have already volunteered. Senator Sławomir Rybicki will be the first to ask the question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u108	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the draft law significantly deviates from the Government's submission, which was the subject of an agreement within the Joint Government and Government Committee. I'd like to ask you what opposition arguments... Because the rapporteur said today that under the influence of the opposition's proposal, the government project had radically changed in the Sejm. Of course, it is Parliament's sacred law to work on laws and change them at its own discretion. However, I would like to ask the Minister precisely what arguments of the opposition have persuaded you to change your position, because you also represented and operated the original presentation. I would also like to ask you about the government's relations with the local government in a situation where agreement on the joint committee is not later defended by a government representative during parliamentary work. Thank you very much. [[How about another one?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u109	We can group up the questions because I see that it's 2, 4, 6, 7... 8 people are saved, so maybe we can combine two questions. Please, the question is asked by the next speaker, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u110	Yes, thank you very much, although I think it's better to ask when you have a minister ahead of you, not behind you, but this... [[So sensitive.]] There have been customs so far, but you can sit wherever you want. Dear Minister, I apologize for the back, but I'm looking at my notes and I'd like to ask you what it is that this is another bill... Perhaps you can answer the question of what is bothering your ministry in the competitions. Competitions are recognised throughout the democratic world. Free recruitment for posts, general access, etc. Of course, you can have reservations about how competitions are done, and you can correct it. The competitions do not apply, I do not know, in North Korea, they do not apply in Putin Russia. So I would like to ask why you are so disturbed by competitions and free recruitment for important positions in the country, and in this case in regional accounting chambers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u111	The last questions in this series will be asked by Senator Jan Rulewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u112	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The question to the Minister is a bit of a reference to Senator Rybicki's question. Your speech was incomprehensible, which is why I ask whether the government is in favour of its project, giving the senators the right to choose their support. It's a government proposal, or it wants these amendments, and the government position... And second question. To what extent will these changes, especially those of staff, affect the length of proceedings or even the absence of decisions in regional accounting chambers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u113	Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u114	I'm sorry, Senator. I'm gonna stand by, but he's got a terrible record here. I sat there to write down questions, but if you prefer to speak to me like this, of course I am very obedient and stand here. Maybe I'll start with the last questions, Senator Rulewski's questions. In fact, I didn't answer before, because in some respects this staff question had already appeared, and the senator had also asked a question before about the concern for continuity. I will start by saying that the case concerns 201 people as regards members of the colleges of regional financial chambers. It is the law that will expire its functions in respect of these 201 persons within the time limits recorded therein. 23 persons shall be members of the non-retirement regional financial chambers. The deadlines are so long, these periods are long enough, that there is no concern that there will be a disruption of continuity. When this period is in place to introduce regulations in accordance with the law, new compositions will be formed, and at least the presidents, vice-presidents, will be appointed, and the presidents will propose members of the colleges. This time, I think, is long enough to shape a colleague so that they can work in continuous mode, without any interruption, without any hesitation. All the more so that they can work in formations, and certainly there will not be such a problem that there are no formations. Then don't worry about it. This will certainly not affect the duration of the procedure. On the contrary, the possibility of setting up formations should speed up the handling of cases, because in parallel several formations will be able to work, not the entire college on each case. Only those cases for which the full composition of the college is required will be dealt with by colleges. The senator also asked, and also Senator Rybicki in some sense asked what the relationship was, so I understood it, the government from its own project and to those changes that were made. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has submitted a proposal on which it was convinced that it was the right project, but the legislative process also has its conditions and rights. The Sejm has the right to amend the draft submitted. These amendments, these amendments, have been tabled. I have referred some of them to you, not all of them, but the ones I considered relevant in this discussion. Senators, you know the course of the Seym process. The Sejm has that right. Today it is not submitted to the High Senate version, which was sent to the Sejm, which is the government version. There's a version that came out of the Sejm. This is the shape of the legislative process in the Republic of Poland and referring here to the source, to the shape which was the original form, the government, it makes no sense, because today we have one specific project submitted to the High Senate in accordance with the regulations. So it's hard to talk about defense or lack of defence here. It is simply that Members have shaped some of the provisions of the project slightly differently. Senator, competitions don't bother the government. In the presentation of the government, there was a proposal to elect the presidents of the regional financial chambers by means of competitions. This is one of the changes that the Sejm has made. Is that bad or good? Senator, there may be different views on this subject. It happens so, it's already an extension of the discussion. The competitions bring good results, and sometimes they don't produce good results. There's not one answer to the question, which is better. I repeat: there were competitions in the government presentation, but I wouldn't fetish competitions. We need to have a rational relationship to this issue and observe how it all looks like in many fields, in many places. We have extensive competition experience with 27 years of functioning democracy in its current shape in our homeland and our experience with this is very different. I repeat: the government project was, so to speak, the contestant included this element. What came out of the Sejm no longer contains this element, and we are talking about this design today. That's how I can answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u115	More senators who ask questions. Senator Marek Borowski is asking a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u116	Thank you. Minister, you have devoted a longer part of your speech to the wrong financial management of local governments, specifically the debt of local governments. And it seems that the government's ratio legis law is, I would say, financial, we can't allow local governments to be too indebted, because then citizens suffer from it. Then you quoted the figures on the scale of government debt. To be honest, I didn't know the data, and I was surprised to learn that it was quite good. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: What?]] That it's okay. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: And that's good.]] Over 2 000 local governments have a debt of up to 30% of their income, several hundred between 30 and 40% , several dozen between 40 and 50%. Debt exceeding 60% they have 62 local governments, i.e. 2.5% all municipalities. Given that the public debt, even after deduction of the government debt, is above 50% And somehow no one's making a big deal out of it, and I'd like to know from you why you think the scale of the debt requires as much intervention as this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u117	Why don't we add one more question, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. [[Mr. Marshal, I have three questions. Shall we join?]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Yes.]] Yes. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The first point concerns Article. 5. I'm going to talk about some specific issues. I support this law, so I will not speak on ideology here, but in order this law to enter into force and be functional, certain things should be consistent. Art. 5 This is an article that has been amended during parliamentary work. The government hasn't offered to change it before. And it happened here, as you said, to expand the criteria based on which RIO may control local authorities. Except not quite, because there was definitely a mix of criteria, but not always to expand. Was that the intention? Because I understand that in some ways we are tightening up RIO supervision over local governments due to the financial difficulties of local governments. Well, if we're gonna tighten it up, let's be consistent and concrete. So far, whether at the moment, chambers control all local authorities, i.e. the entire financial economy, in terms of the legality and compliance of the documentation with the facts. At the moment, this has been converted into legal compliance and integrity. If the reliability is the compliance of the documentation with the facts, then we agree. But the last paragraph, the mouth. Article 2 5 and now paragraph 5. 3, he said that control was to be carried out in the field of government administration's tasks in terms of purposefulness, reliability and cost-effectiveness. Since the purpose and reliability are referred to in paragraph. 1, that's a lack of economy. Is that really what this was all about? Is that what we're gonna want with RIO? did not control the economy of the local government when carrying out the tasks of the government administration? Is it just an oversight? 'Cause if that's what we're after, let's keep it that way, but if it's an oversight, it's got to be completed. I'll give you the opportunity to make the right amendment. The second issue, related to the categoric influence on local governments, that is to say, the appointment of a Commissioner, possibly with an appeal or a dissolution of the body. We're bringing in a new tool. This tool is the rigour of immediate feasibility. I agree with that. Indeed, this must be done in certain cases. But why are we doing this? Because the legal proceedings that hold up the execution of the supervisory decision are very long. Actually, that's the cause, the first cause. On the one hand, we limit court proceedings to 30 days, to be settled within 30 days, but on the other hand, we do not believe that it will be settled, and we introduce immediate enforcement. Good. We have two tools. Even if it doesn't end in 30 days, we've got that rigor, but it's an extra tool. Because such a tool should be challenged, and it is not challenged, in this text there is no possibility of calling for immediate enforcement. ♪ Couldn't get too far from poverty ♪ 'Cause here you could eat k.p.a. The provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure when the supervisory decision is in one act linked to immediate feasibility, but this guarantee may be given later. So first, the supervisory decision, and then, when we see that the court proceedings are not extended by 30 days, but let's assume that we are already 3 months into immediate feasibility if there are specific 2 conditions that are in the provision. Very good. It's just that we should give sides. And the party in this case is either the board or the council that we cancel or solve. The possibility to challenge this, and we do not give this possibility. And that's a problem for me. Because this bill can be touched by it. I would therefore also propose an appropriate amendment, but I would ask the Minister to address these two issues. And then there's the third point, completely marginal. Why do we have to wait six months? It is a requirement for immediate enforcement. Why do we have to wait six months? Would three months be enough? After all, for six months we are going to watch the ruined self-government, intentionally or unintentionally, somehow in this self-government. Why six months? Where did that number just come from?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u119	Mr. Minister, four questions. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! As to what Senator Borowski was talking about, we interpret the facts completely differently. I would even say that if it were the way some of you thought at the beginning of our discussion here, that it would be a few cases, then it would already be appropriate to react, to create legal tools that would prevent it, to prevent problems. But this is not about a few cases, it is about a much larger scale of problems. Because if the senator thinks that up to 30%... well, of course, it's a permissible debt. If the senator thinks it's a good thing that 2,000 12 units of local government are so indebted... Okay. But if you also believe that the fact that only 90 municipalities and 5 counties do not show debt obligations... It seems to me that our reading of this situation is completely different. I don't think it's good. And, of course, as regards these cases of debt above 60%... 63 such cases at the end of 2016. It's not one case or two, it's 63. So I think this painting looks a little different. I wouldn't underestimate that, Senator. And I'd rather ask you to consider whether you can approach it the way you put it in your questions. Because I don't think so. At the beginning of my speech, I said that the origins of the work on this law were concerned about the creation of a legal mechanism that would prevent the over-indebtedness of local government units. That was the starting point for this bill. As far as the legislative themes raised by Senator Czerwiński are concerned, I think they require such a very thorough reading once again into the text itself. And we will do so in a moment, especially with regard to the economic criterion that you believe has been overlooked or eliminated consciously or unconsciously. We'll get back to that in a minute. I will answer you, in very working mode, to this question, only we must in extenso examine the record of what is left after the changes in the Seym. And of course, then you will be able to make amendments, depending on your assessment. In fact, you used the phrase that we want to tighten up the supervision of local governments. Not just sharpen it, but make it real. That's what I'd say. [[I'm gonna make it work.]] Yes, make it effective, effective. It's about real and effective supervision, not about him being sharper or less sharp. That's not the point. It's not that it's some tool that local governments, like it's raining here, are supposed to be afraid of. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this case is already a misunderstanding. Because if what we're talking about here is that there's no control, so you can do anything, because no one's gonna control it, then we're gonna have you, in the self-government segment, completely irresponsible. It's not like the government can control itself, to the end. No one can control themselves properly. Therefore, this mechanism must be an external mechanism. This is a state mechanism. Such a belief that the government knows everything best, will do everything legally, according to purpose, according to economy, according to reliability, always perfectly, is a mistake. Just where people are, there are mistakes. Therefore, control mechanisms must be provided for in the rule of law in a democratic state. And that's what we're looking for in this bill. In the area we're talking about. As far as the challenge of this immediate enforcement decision is concerned, it seems to me that judicial review remains. We're about to show the senator a proper record, which I'm sure the senator will convince you of that.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u121	Thank you, Minister. There'll be another series of questions. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn came forward. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u122	Minister, you said that the Government Legislative Council gave a positive assessment of this project in terms of constitutional compatibility. In fact, it seems to me that the Constitution, which states that self-government can be controlled in terms of legality, leaves no room for interpretation, that it includes reliability and cost-effectiveness in relation to its own tasks. I am therefore very interested in what arguments the legislators have used. Would you mind if I introduced them to the High House and to me as well? On what basis did the Government Legislative Board decide that this was a constitutional project? That's one thing. Second, I'd like to 'Cause the minister was a little clueless about it. A clear answer. As a result of the joint government and local government committee's agreement, you withdrew the state from the government project. As I understand it, as a result of this arrangement, so under the influence of the arguments of the self-government party... You have withdrawn from those rules that talk about control in terms of reliability, economy and agreed to restore competitions. I understand you've done it in the belief that it's the right thing to do, not under pressure. What is the government's position on these rules today? Do you object to this and urge the House to respect the will of the committee of the common government and the government? Let the Minister be clear: "Yes, the government is in favour of respecting the compromise that we have worked out, or the government is against this compromise and has no regard for the opinion of the local government on this matter.' That's another line. You're resigning from the article. 7, which states that operators may be checked in a number of cases upon request. At the same time, in the article. 1 you introduce the ability to control these different entities... That's what the Minister was talking about. I'm not going to replace them. Is it because it is so important No longer on request, since tens of thousands of entities can be checked at any time, you expect to increase employment, create new units, etc.? How much will employment increase and how much will it cost if these checks are to be realistic? Not in any kind of emergency case on request, as has been the case so far, but in general... Of course, if it's not an empty, impossible record. And if it is to be feasible, I ask how much it will cost, if employment increases, as you estimate. This, apparently, was in the government's submission, so, as I understand it, you are aware of what you want to do. And finally, with regard to the article. The 5a I asked the rapporteurs about... Because he is no longer four years old when it comes to comprehensive control, it can, as I understand it, be undertaken at any time. Four times in four years... Please tell us if there are regulations in this law that prevent the possibility of harassing self-government with comprehensive, problematic and ad hoc controls. Because these checks aren't at any request, they're just being made. Have you foreseen legislation that would prevent self-government from being harassed by such checks? Finally, Minister: do you know how many monthly inspections are carried out in the local government? [[How much did I get for Pitera? 23.]] [[Is the senator finished?]] [[23!]] Yeah, those five questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u123	Then I'll ask you to ask Senator Władysław Komarnicki your question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u124	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. It'll be short, Minister. I will repeat the question with which the rapporteur sent me to you. Why did the government rule out in this law, delete the possibility for the owner of the province, i.e. the sejmik, the organization of regional chambers of accounts, and thus what is really involved in this region? My question is that I was vice-president of the Lubuskie Sejm and I know what knowledge the Sejmik has, and I know what opinion he had so far in terms of cooperation. [[That's the end of the question, isn't it?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u125	Thank you very much. Minister, please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u126	I'd like to start with that last question, I'm looking for the right document... Indeed, I forgot to answer that question before, but it is actually very simple. From the Act of 6 May 2005 on the Commission of the Joint Government and the Local Government and on the Representatives of the Republic of Poland in the Committee of the Regions of the European Union, from Article. 3 point 5 of the Act shows that it is the Joint Committee of the Government and the Local Government that has competence in the assessment of draft normative acts, programmes and other government documents concerning the issue of local government, including the relationship between local government and other public administrations. And this is really everything, because all levels of self-government are represented in the Commission of the Common Government and the Territorial Government and it seems to me that the procedure enshrined in the Act is quite sufficient. [[Yes, sir. Bravo!]] With regard to the questions asked by Senator Augustine, the positions of the government, a renewed position with regard to the changes made by the Sejm, are not formally present. That is, there is no such thing as the government's position being expressed by the Council of Ministers in respect of any change made by the Sejm during the legislative process. It was the will of the Sejm's majority to enter records that were submitted to the Senate by the Sejm. That's all I can say. With regard to the harassment of local authorities, as the senator has said, it is difficult in a document which entitles the control or supervisory authority to act, which determines the scope of the subject matter and the subject-matter of the activity, to include certain prohibitions that, let's say, every once in a while carry out one kind of control... And if there's a need for her to be more often or again... After all, this is a limitation which would lead to a question of the effectiveness of this mechanism. No one's harassing the local government and no one's harassing the state, no one's harassing the state. If there are grounds for carrying out an audit, one or another as defined in the Act, regional audit chambers will have to carry out such audits in their respective fields of competence. After all, there is a rule that once every four years local authorities, local government units, must be checked for the competences in which regional audit chambers are equipped. I don't know how much control there is in local governments a month, I don't know if it can be counted for months, Senator. Of course, I don't have that kind of data. As regards the authorities and institutions involved in these checks. After all, in the Polish country there are different... [[Rows from dozens to dozens, Minister.]] ...the institutions empowered to carry out checks in the scope assigned to them by law. I don't have that kind of data. I don't know if local governments are collecting that kind of data in their local corporations at all. We don't have that kind of data and we didn't collect it. As far as increasing employment is concerned, it is not foreseen. It is not anticipated. The Act regulates mechanisms to be more effective, more efficient in the field of competence of regional accounting chambers, but does not provide for any parameter defining the increase in the number of checks and therefore the number of persons to be employed. There's no such thing as government assumptions. About the competitions, I said... The government's starting point was that the competitions were, but the Sejm changed it. As far as the Legislative Council is concerned, I would have to refer to the documents that the Legislative Council used when it considered that there was no danger. as to the non-constitutionality of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u127	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, as announced earlier, I will now announce a recess by 4:00 p.m., which is why I will thank the Minister at this moment. During the break, a meeting will be held between the Senate Bureau, the Senate Club Presidents and the Senate Committee Chairs from the Social Dialogue Council Bureau. After the break, i.e. At 4:00 p.m., we will proceed with the examination of point seven: the report on the activities of the Social Dialogue Council for 2016. We will then return to the fourth item on the agenda. I would like to inform you that we will consider items 5 and 6 of the agenda tomorrow. Dismissed until 4:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 55 to 16 minutes 13]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u128	I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, as announced, we will now proceed with the examination of paragraph seven and, upon completion, the examination of paragraph four. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report on the activities of the Social Dialogue Council for 2016. I would like to welcome the President of the Social Dialogue Council, Mrs Henryka Bochniarz, members of the Social Dialogue Council bureau and representatives of the government. The text of the report is contained in print No 521. The Senate Marshal addressed the report to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. The Commission examined the report at its meeting on 20 June 2017 and informed the Senate Marshal. I ask the President of the Social Dialogue Council, Mrs Henryka Bochniarz, to speak and present the report.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm gonna get some water right away, 'cause I'm losing my voice. I have a marathon with a report on the Council of Dialogue's activities. First of all, we were talking to each other, second of all, we had a meeting with the president, where we talked about how the council works, and today we are meeting with the marshals and presidents of the Senate committees... So if I lose my voice in this, I'm gonna ask one of my colleagues to continue. Ladies and gentlemen, as you have received the report and, I hope, the Senate has also received the material on the functioning of the Social Dialogue Council that we have prepared, I would like to focus on a few matters only. And I think it's going to be more important here than the question. As you know, the Social Dialogue Council in the current formula is a new institution, on the one hand, because it has been operating for a year and a half and, on the other hand, taking traditions from its predecessor, the Tripartite Commission, which ceased to function in 2013 as a result of the exit of trade union representatives. I think it was a typical example of a crisis that has a good effect, because it turned out, first of all, that this dialogue is needed, secondly, that we social partners wanted to return to some form of conversation between us and the government side, and we also had so much bad and good experience that we were able to prepare a bill that I think is kind of our common child. Therefore, our discussions about the functioning of the Council of Dialogue always have a concern for how our common child will develop. I also think that this is a unique case, because the bill was still prepared for the previous government, it has already been adopted by the present parliament. I would also like to mention a few rather important issues that differ from the activities of its predecessor, the Tripartite Commission. Firstly, we have far greater equality between partners. In the previous edition, the chairman was always a representative of the government. It was either the Minister of Economy or the Minister of Labour. In the meantime, we now have a solution that is absolutely unique on a European scale, i.e. We have equal partners, among other things. on the fact that the President or the President is a representative of one of the parties every year. In the first year of the Social Dialogue Council it was a trade union representative, in this case Piotr Duda, the head of the Solidarity Council, now, since the end of October last year, is the employer's representative And it was my colleagues from other business organizations who appointed me for this role. And since the end of October this year it will be Minister Rafalska as a representative of the government. Contrary to appearances, this is not just a formal change. This is a change that really affects how we communicate with each other what our agenda is, what our responsibility is. I think that this responsibility also increases the wording of the article. 1 law, which significantly extends the competences of today's Social Dialogue Council. Previously, there was a speech. It is only about relations between employees and employers, and now it is written that we, through our dialogue, are supposed to influence social and economic development, while at the same time ensuring the competitiveness of the Polish economy and maintaining social peace. This makes us wonder, on many issues, whether it is still our competence to deal with them, or whether it is already going beyond the framework of the law. But I think when it comes to dialogue, there's never much talk. And rather, I think it would be better if we looked more closely at our competences and responsibilities than at a narrower one. But it is also something that we learn, which is also simply verified by life. So I think that when we make another assessment of the functioning of the law in two years' time, we will see whether these were fundamental changes or rather minor changes. And I think that then we will also be able to refer to this area of competence of the Social Dialogue Council. What I'd like to point out and what I think is crazy important right here, right here, this is a record. Which we have introduced in a completely conscious way, which is to assess the functioning of the law and possibly amend it after 2 years. I think this is something that should be permanent in our legislative system. The point is, there's a review going on. It doesn't matter whether it's after 2 years, or after 3 years, not waiting until it turns out that life has completely broken down with records, and making some adjustments to rape. I think that the fact that we've been talking about this amendment for practically a few months now is that it's our work together, working out a common opinion on whether we really should change something, or maybe it's not necessarily necessary... I think that's the great value of this bill. This, contrary to appearances, has a profound effect on how effective we are. We ourselves constantly verify whether the provision is correct or not, and whether we should look at it again in the course of the next revision. Another change is the question of eliminating the need for consensus. In the previous edition, the Tripartite Commission could only adopt resolutions through consensus. Now it is a matter of majority, but of course it is represented by individual parties. I think that's a good way to make it more efficient, too. There is no denying that it was very difficult for us in the Tripartite Committee to come to the same conclusion for all of us. Now we know that it is enough for the majority of the parties to adopt this solution, which is forcing us to take a different approach to the functioning of the council. Another thing that I think is important is the functioning of the WRDS. As you know, apart from the Social Dialogue Council, which operates here in Warsaw, we have our voivodship branches in every voivodship. In the previous edition, the Tripartite Commission was affiliated to voivodships in voivodships. We have decided that this local representative of interests, where we are discussing the future of the region, where we are discussing the labour market in a given region, is, above all, a marshal. Therefore, at the moment, the Regional Councils of Social Dialogue are affiliated to the marshals. I will return to this matter because it will also have a significant significance in this revision. I'll remind you briefly, if I say so, there are pages. In addition to the government side represented by perhaps eight constitutional ministers and two ministers... all major ministries are represented there. And there's a change from the previous entries. It must be the Minister himself. Only in exceptional cases can we agree that he should be represented by his deputy or deputy. I think it's important, too, because in the previous edition of the Trilateral Commission... Unfortunately, the degradation of her actions resulted, among others. It's just that then the vice ministers came, then the directors, then the governors, and then no one came. I think here... We are doing a very detailed analysis of the presence at the moment, and we will account for this by individual ministers, and we will certainly inform the Prime Minister. It seems to us that, from the point of view of the functioning of the government, it is extremely important that this rank of representation be appropriate. By the way, I would like to say that the fact that the Social Dialogue Council has a lot of success is a result of a very active attitude of the Ministry of Family and Labour. Minister Rafalska is such a good example of the person who genuinely believes in this dialogue. It's not just a matter of reading a record that says she's the government's main representative, but it's... I remember that the last person to approach the Council of Dialogue, the Tripartite Committee, sometimes even very emotionally, was Deputy Prime Minister Hausner. If one does not believe in the possibility of obtaining consensus, consent, then the laws themselves are not enough. In addition to the representatives of the government in the Council of Social Dialogue, there are 3 trade union organisations, OPZZ, the Trade Union Forum and Solidarity Forum, as well as 4 employers' organisations, namely BCC, the Employers of Poland, the Union of Polish Crafts and Leviathan, the organization I run. I'm talking about it because I often meet with the question: why these organizations? There is little awareness in this regard. It's not like someone designated them or they kind of got in there. In order to become a representative organization, very important criteria must be met. You have it written in your material, so I will not repeat it. This is a question of the number of employees employed, functioning in various sectors of the economy It can't be an industry organisation. And national representation. These three criteria are the most important. As you can see, despite 27 years of democracy, it is not so easy to meet these criteria. There are a lot of different organizations on the union side and on the labour side, which, so to speak, are known as representatives, but are unable to meet the criteria given. And that is why we are so stubbornly demanding that we respect this institutional structure. These are organizations that, on the union and employment side, have made their place. And it cannot be that some structure that operates for six months and is unable to meet the most important criteria has been treated just as well as they have. I am talking about this openly because we had a huge conflict with Mr Morawiecki, who consulted on his strategy for responsible development throughout the country, but forgot that the first institution to be addressed is the Council of Social Dialogue. We finally set up an emergency committee on this plan. It seems obvious that such documents should be consulted in the Council of Dialogue. We operate as if through problem teams, problems are directed by individual organizations and by industry teams, which are, so to speak, some remnants from the previous era, not even from the times of the Tripartite Commission. They sort of function in different ministries. We sometimes don't even know that they're called. Now we're trying to sort this out. It's about the rules, and there's a good representation. Because it is often the case that we have a problem team that deals with some issues, gives its position, and then suddenly it turns out that this was the case with the Ministry of Agriculture. It gives its position which is completely contrary to the position of the Council of Social Dialogue. I think we should organize all of this. This is a matter of burden on ministers, because of course every team expects a minister to be at their meeting, but above all, an issue of institutional order, which is necessary for us to function well. According to the law, we are primarily entitled to consult government projects and this is the case, although it is very often the case that we get projects that have already been processed and in the Seym, and in the Senate. Then it just doesn't make sense to refer to them. I must say that apart from the storm of legislative projects, which was at the very beginning, especially as regards the parliamentary projects that most often do not reach us, although there are more and more recently... I must speak of the example of the President's Chancellery. Although she is not obliged to consult us on her projects, all the projects that were prepared by the President's Office were consulted by the Social Dialogue Council. It even happened that the President could finally tell us something, because it turned out that for one of his laws we were preparing an opinion for a few months. So that here, so to speak, the situation was reversed, because normally we complain that either our opinions are not taken into account, or too late, and here we think they are late. But this also shows that if there is a will for dialogue, even if there is no statutory record, these consultations are carried out. Now I would like to say a few words about what will be found in this draft amendment. The issue is not yet closed, but it will still be yours as a presidential project. I would like, first of all, to talk about the stage at which we are now following our internal arrangements and, secondly, to encourage Senate representatives to add their own comments, so to speak. Because it is possible that in your legislative work, you have the attention to how this system works and where the Social Dialogue Council could be a partner for you. This is where the person of Piotr Duda appears. I can appeal to his opinion from the meeting we had at the President's Office on Monday, at which Mr President just praised both the Senate and Marshal Karczewski for this open approach and the genuine will to talk, maybe in contrast to what we are dealing with when it comes to the Sejm and the Marshal of the Sejm. But that means there could be some improvement somewhere. The things that are most important... 'Cause there's a lot of procedural stuff. And I wouldn't want to bother you, for example. that we are introducing electronic forms of voting, which will certainly make our work easier. What is important at the moment is the issue of financing voivodship social dialogue councils. Just like you. I said that the councils were affiliated to the marshals, unfortunately without the budget, because this budget was prepared on the basis of the old Tripartite Commission's activities and therefore there was no financing of these new structures, either on this side or on the side of the marshals. And of course, as in life, there are such voivodship dialogue councils in which the Marshal and the voivodship bravely share the costs and this allows for the functioning of voivodship dialogue councils. That's how we do things. in Silesia, where the budget is 150,000. But we also have some voivodship board of dialogue, where the budget is 5,000 and yet it is expected that there will be a payment for the room rented from the marshal. So we need to sort this out. Therefore, we have proposed that funding be carried out through the own tasks of local governments. There is a difference of opinion between the social partners and the government. The Minister, rightly so, stated that since this is her constitutional responsibility, she would therefore like to have control over this budget. So I understand that the option is either that the government will guarantee budgeting on such a scale that the voivodship dialogue councils will be able to actually work on their budget, or we will have to go on the one option that the marshals have already agreed to. Because it is hard to imagine that we should accept such a state that we have very important institutions that should play an important role, but in their case there is simply no possibility of financing. Another change is an introduction. And I think this is where all the partners agree. The right of the Social Dialogue Council to apply for an interpretation of tax law. This is extremely important and will certainly be used many times by us. I don't think there's any difference between us either. There's a thing that separates us. There are organisations, social partners and the government on one side, and there is Solidarity on the other. This is a matter of the functioning of the council office itself. We believe that during these two years we are still in the process of learning how to interpret this law, how to act, and that it should be left behind. Solvency returns to its idea, which it had put forward before the adoption of the current law on the appointment of a spokesperson for dialogue. I think it just requires a serious conversation between all the partners so that we can hear arguments that will convince us that this is a good solution for... above all for dialogue, that it will not create another institution and other costs that will not have any major effects. So I think that's pretty much everything. I don't want to talk about the little things that are there, because we're going to solve them technically. Right now, the agenda is that we're saving ourselves some more time between the members of the bureau to figure out the issues that are not yet fully settled between us, and where there's a chance that we'll get along. When it comes to issues where we don't get along, there will be a protocol of discrepancies. The project will go to the President's Office and Okay, I get it. From there will come a proposal, which I hope will be a proposal accepted by all of us and, like the original law, this amendment will also be an amendment that will be simply acceptable to all of us. One more technical issue, but in my opinion it is also relevant, and it is the Senate. As you know, I am now reporting on the functioning of the Social Dialogue Council, and it is kind of common, so to speak, my work as president and Peter Duda as president of the previous year. When the bill was passed, we did not yet know when the nominations would take place and when the first president, the first president, would be appointed. Now we know it's the end of October. There's obviously some inconsistencies here. Peter Duda should close his period. Of course we are jointly responsible for what is going on in the Council of Dialogue, but that is why the President is here so that he can account for his presidency. It will be the same with Minister Rafalska now. If she takes over with the council, she'll talk about part of my leadership period and part of hers. So we would like to make order so that this information actually ends when our terms are over so that we can make it... so that it's just more consistent. So much for me, ladies and gentlemen. If there are any questions... There's Peter Duda, so Okay, I get it. In time he will be able to chair... I will always be able to pin it on him, to say that he has to answer, because these are his actions. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u130	Thank you very much, Madam President. Would any of you senators like to ask the president's questions? There are two reports. Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u131	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Madam President, I would like to ask the President about the work on the law in force. I remember. It's worth remembering for the order. That this perspective, this level of cooperation between partners, was created by the president of the previous term of office, Bronisław Komorowski, who invited all the parties of the Tripartite Commission to resume the dialogue. He created a plane which resulted in the joint work of the partners, and the result of this work was the law in force. I'd like to ask you. 'Cause I can't ask President Piotr Duda about the comment or the extension of your information about the differences that arose between the partners at the meeting with Mr Duda, which is precisely... The President of the Council referred to them, saying that he would not want the Council to be the footstool of the Ministry. Could I ask for more information about the differences between the partners in the Council of Dialogue? And second question. I would like to ask you whether, in your work on amending the law, you have considered writing down the mandatory need to consult all laws on the effects of the impact of the regulation, or even going further, so that after a year an evaluation of these effects can be carried out. Such ideas appeared in public space and they are also worth considering. Is it not worth suggesting or putting such a solution in the project? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u132	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u133	Mr. Senator, I think that certainly Peter Duda would be a better person to explain these differences, because it so happens that on this point, I mean. on the proposal to set up an Ombudsman for dialogue between the other partners and the President of the "Solidarity' and "Solidarity' is precisely the difference of opinion. We believe that the Council of Dialogue in the current formula still has a number of issues to resolve so that it can be more effective, more effective, and that, therefore, the creation of new institutions would be more detrimental than would help dialogue. It's a fact that we made a commitment when the bill was adopted... And I am very pleased that you have drawn attention to the role of President Komorowski, because I think that such an affiliation... And the president as a patron of dialogue was just one of the best ideas and I am glad that, although I say so, changes, there is a continuation and willingness to dialogue and care for the President and the President's Chancellery. It seems to me, though. And that's not just my personal opinion, but that's the sentence, I think, of all of us. It's too soon... And while we have discussed that we can go back to the issue of the spokesperson of dialogue, we do not think that at this stage it is an institution that could actually improve this dialogue. Rather, we would be in favour of using the current provisions of the Act and seeking to improve its functioning rather than creating a new institution, an institution of the Ombudsman whose relations with the Council of Dialogue would at least be, so to speak, a question mark. And there are dozens of other issues, not to mention the extra costs and the fact that it would also require a revision of many laws. For this reason, it seems to us that it is now better to focus on the fact that during this time, for the next two years, until the next amendment, first of all to increase the effectiveness of the board's work, and also to conduct discussions, discussions, because we really did not have them, about the concept that Solvency has tabled. And as I said with the President, I look forward to the solidarity that, since it is so that all the other organisations believe that this is not a good idea today, our rations will be recognised as respect for partners and dialogue. Because I think we have to agree that... if most of the union organisations and employers are finally there, and the government, thinks that right now it's a proposal that doesn't increase the effectiveness of dialogue, these arguments should be recognised.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u134	Thank you very much. Now...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u135	Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, the second part of the question concerning the impact assessment and the prerogatives of the board, which cannot benefit from this because the submission is mainly government. And isn't it worth writing it down in the new bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u136	We have written this proposal in the project so that all the projects are mandatoryly consulted by the Social Dialogue Council. I don't remember right now, but I think Maybe the Minister will know better. That there were some constitutional reservations about doing it. This is the issue that we are still talking about when it comes to how we can possibly expand this. Only again, as Marshal Karczewski said today, that in fact the marshals at every stage have the opportunity to involve the social partners in the consultation. It is only a matter of willingness and openness to hear these opinions. And of course, maybe it would be better if there were hard records, but if you want to get around that right, you'll get around them. That's what happened in the parliamentary projects. Although I must say that really now, at the time of my chairmanship, it is much better than the previous year. It's much better. Maybe it is also that, in the end, this legislative process is much more controlled and therefore these projects go through the government. And I must admit that the greatest effectiveness of this action is when we work with the ministries before the project is adopted by the government, because, as it is already adopted by the government, of course, the possibilities to influence change are not so great. And that's a very individual issue again. There are ministries with which you work well and who themselves at the stage of the assumptions ask: listen, do you have any comments about this? And there are also those that hide these projects very well and act as a surprise, and then we get the project on Saturday, and by Monday the comments are to be submitted. As I say, it takes a lot of goodwill here and a lot of conviction that it makes sense that what we're proposing... If you imagine that we have, so to speak, two sides of the barricade, trade union organisations and employers, and a government that has ideas too, and we can make a deal on many things, it is really worth at least looking at it and not thinking that we know better. And I say, we have examples of legal solutions regarding whether the minimum hourly rate for commissioned works or the Public Procurement Act, where we have just worked out a common opinion, and today these are laws that do not raise much doubt. And we have a lot of legal acts that, so to speak, will not come out of the printer, and we already know that there are reservations about them, either in terms of compliance with EU law or constitutional law... I think that we are already at this stage, that we should be doing this legislative process in a much more responsible way. This also applies to the impact assessment of the regulation. How do I get a bill and it's written there doesn't have any effect? Then why is it even introduced? It just means that nothing changes in relation to the current situation. It always has some effect. However, if one draws attention to something, it is primarily to whether it has budgetary implications rather than to what effect it has, e.g. from the company's point of view. And it seems that if we are talking about who created this budget, then it would be worth paying attention to whether the costs associated with the introduction of some legislation are not so high that it simply does not make sense. And I'm saying we can't accept our calculations, our arguments, but we would just like to hear a substantive assessment that we disagree on these issues, that you've miscalculated, that you're wrong here, and that we're taking political responsibility here. That's also an explanation. But not in the way that we just can't figure out what happened to those opinions. Sometimes it's like, The Minister was also often involved in this, when we wrote to Prime Minister Szydło together. It was simply not appropriate for a specific ministry to ask whether the proposals put forward from the point of view of the Council of Social Dialogue make any sense.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u137	Thank you very much. Now, Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u138	Mr President, a new element in the Social Dialogue Council is the possibility of bilateral dialogue. I would like to ask what, in your opinion, this new instrument of the Social Dialogue Council has brought, which is concrete. What would you consider the greatest success? Secondly, undoubtedly, the level and course of education is crucial for workers' opportunities, and so is for employers and for all of us. We're in the process of changing the system, which is very emotional. What was the course of discussions on these issues in the Social Dialogue Council, and what was your position? And the third case. In addition to responding to current situations and evaluating laws, you now have the opportunity to deal with system issues. Do you have on the agenda an issue of senior policy seen from a development perspective? That's all.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u139	Mr. Senator, as far as bilateral dialogue is concerned, I think that rotating leadership has caused that there is much more of this dialogue between unions and employers than there was before, because then, as I say, it was well known that the cards were distributed by the government. At the moment, we are aware of much greater autonomy and much greater possibilities for influencing different solutions. Let us not deceive ourselves, it is far from what is happening in countries where autonomous dialogue is much more widespread, like Germany or France, but I think that we are learning this and that there is a chance that this bilateral dialogue will actually be more effective. As far as education is concerned, in relation to education and health, i.e. these two systemic issues, we thought that we should present our position. It has been prepared by the Social Dialogue Council on health, but unfortunately it has only a small amount been taken into account by you... I don't even know to what extent, because we don't know what the final provisions of these laws are that relate to changes in the health system. As far as education is concerned, this is also one of the projects that we are currently working on, especially as regards vocational education, because this is something that both parties are very interested in. I think we will be ready to present the position of the Social Dialogue Council in September. Then we will want to present them, although I know that there are already quite advanced work in the field of vocational education, because Minister Machalek was with the President and invited us to work which is being carried out in the Ministry of Education. We will certainly be involved in this, but we would very much like to see more creative approaches from the Social Dialogue Council, so that we not only react to what is on the table, but work more in the long term and use our experts. This, of course, is a matter of financial resources and cooperation with the WRDS, because it should not be just our solutions. For example, in the case of the employment of immigrants, the position that we have presented is a position prepared above all by our voivodship social dialogue councils. This is constantly, so to speak, testing this machinery and learning how much we can use the law and our resources to offer different solutions. And you have to be aware that when we come to some sort of solution... If I wanted to brag, I'd definitely point to a minimum hourly rate. This was the result of very hard work between unions and employers. This position we prepared was very well-founded by all the calculations we could present, and that is why it was then adopted without problems by the government, even though it was radically different from what we originally received from the government. The problem is that our work in problem teams in WRDS is sometimes hours of debate, discussion, hurting opinions. Of course, if there's a fight, it's much easier to sell it all, but organic work, work from scratch, unfortunately it's not sexy. And therefore we also have a huge problem with showing our work, our effectiveness, our positive action. 'Cause then, when we even screw up something that made no sense, we don't walk around bragging about it. We think it's just our duty. And it does not translate into the image of the Social Dialogue Council, or the fact that it is more recognizable. So I've already talked. I don't remember, I think it's Marshal Karczewski. The fact that maybe we could make such a nice fight so that everyone would suddenly know that there is such a thing as the Council of Dialogue and what it has come up with. But maybe you won't have to go through these methods. [[Please...]] Sorry about the senior policy. Of course, this is one of the elements of our work. And we definitely want to look at senior policy not only from the point of view of health, but above all from the point of view of what an investment is. The point is to look at it all so that it's a great resource of knowledge and experience that we can't use. So we're looking at it as an investment, these people are an investment. And I think that this will be a good position, which the Council of Dialogue will prepare. So we'll definitely share it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u140	Thank you very much. Senator Flork's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u141	Madam President, social dialogue is very important and really needs to be given great importance to it. It seems to me that the matter of organization, the matter of location is perhaps less important. Although it also matters, for 8 years myself I was the chairman of the regional social dialogue committee, as a voivode, and it seems to me that being placed at the marshal's... Of course, financial problems have always been and are, and that would have to be solved. As a marshal who is responsible for the development of the region... I think that's right. But I don't think that's the most important thing. The most important thing is a good climate of cooperation, cooperation. And then all organizational problems can be solved easily. My question is what's changed. Because I remember the said voivodship dialogue committees, I remember the trilateral dialogue committee, what it looked like. There came such a crisis moment, probably 2012, when we stopped seeing each other, although my advice was functioning quite well and there was no problem on purpose, but the meeting did not take place. Well, now, after that time, we've had some experience. That's why my question is that I'm referring to these positions, the opinions you were talking about. You just said that the hourly rates... that this was settled. Well, I'm glad it worked out. My question is whether there is really a consensus if we take these positions into account at the moment. Because it's important that you talk about the many hours you talk about, the discussions and so on. They ended up in consensus. Because it's important. If you could tell me what it looks like right now... Compared to the number of problems that are reported, is it possible, in a large number of cases, to reach consensus or halfway, or are these just occasional situations? As far as positions are concerned, because opinions are known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u142	I think that there is a great deal of our joint resolutions in the autonomous dialogue. There are much fewer trialogues where government approval is also required. So I hope we can deliver a whole set of resolutions here so the senator can see it. But, as I say, we really get along on a lot of things. And even at the last sitting, when we had a meeting at the President's Office, we probably adopted six or seven of our joint resolutions. One of them even required amendments to be adopted during work, and that, too, was done, which is not necessarily... It concerned the introduction of the need for daily reporting of revenues. Anyway, I think there's really quite a piece of work here. And I don't think we have much to be frustrated about here. There must be greater frustration in cases where we would like to agree on a common position with the government, and that is not necessarily the case. I absolutely agree that when it comes to the functioning of especially voivodship dialogue councils... I have three more dialogue boards left to visit, because as part of my work on the amendment I tried to visit all the voivodships, so I have some idea of how these councils work. And of course, even though the bill is one, in terms of their actual functioning, it is very different. There's advice like that. excellent functioning council in Lublin Voivodship Just when I was there, the president was the head of OPZZ, who had such a job in terms of substance in terms of relations between the marshal, the voivode and individual partners, that... It was obvious that there really was work there. They disagreed with things, but at the same time it was authentic that they wanted to reach a compromise. And there's some advice that looks just like the first-morning academy, there's the president's speech, there's no questions, there's no discussion. So that depends, as usual, primarily on people, although also on money, because it's impossible to hide that if someone has 5,000 at their disposal, it's rather difficult for them to have expertise to organize some meetings and discussions, because these people have to come somewhere, they have to find out something, and then... And that's why their effectiveness is less effective. That is why we want to put in such a rational budget for these councils, and then we will know what they are, given that, so to speak, the same budget, are able to show. Because here in Warsaw, we are able to confess absolutely from every zloty. We know exactly what the money went to, and I think the same must be true when it comes to WRDS. That is why I think we should make these changes that are necessary to be more effective, but we should not be doing a revolution, because it is still a very young institution. We can say, well, yeah, but this is finally the predecessor who was a little old and can be drawn from it... But this is a new hand, we have a completely different environment, and we have a completely different challenge. We were talking today at a meeting with the presidents about this, that the work we are talking about today and the work that Senator Rulewski was talking about today, when there was a discussion about a pact about a state enterprise, it's just two completely different worlds. We can't look for solutions that may have even worked out in the previous era, but now they're not gonna work. And that's the challenge for us today. We need to focus above all on how in this completely new environment we are to function, we, trade unions, we, employers, we in dialogue with the government, so that it is not really that I say so, formally, just to make real sense. Here I think there's really a lot of work ahead of us, but after these two years... after over a year and a half of functioning, I can say that I don't feel like Piotr Duda, that I'm the footstool of Minister Rafalska. I think we have very open and often intense discussions. And it's up to us, too, if we can argue whether we can convince our ideas, because that's the only way to do it, not by waving an axe. Thank you. But that doesn't mean that Peter Duda ever waved an axe, absolutely.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u143	Thank you very much. I don't think there are any more requests for questioning. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[President of the Council of Social Dialogue Henryk Bochniarz: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Augustine, please speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u144	(PL) Madam President, I would like to ask you a few Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A moment of pleasant breath. We hear that there is finally a place where in search of order and consent one can reach an agreement, perhaps not always and certainly not easy, but it is extremely important to appreciate and see it. Another distinguishing feature of the Social Dialogue Council is that it was created in a very broad consensus . adopted by the previous authorities and respected by the present. It's rare in our politics to respect. I'd like to make just two, maybe three comments. Firstly, the Social Dialogue Council operates, like all of us, in a very broad political environment. Ruining the state, ruining the institutions that are necessary, e.g. courts, prosecutors, political subjection is and cannot be indifferent to employees or employers, especially when it comes to the initiative of a governing group, at the initiative of the government. I asked about education issues not by chance, because it's a big national dispute about one of the most important national issues. It seems to me that a strong voice, if not advice, is at least a bilateral voice, absolutely lacking in this matter. We at the committee meeting asked about it and we heard that it was a failure that the presentation was not a dialogue. The second point is that the Social Dialogue Council should look not only at the current events but also at the great processes that are passing through. If we are thinking about opening up opportunities for business and thus for all of us, then of course, we need to take these processes into account within the framework of labour market policy, education policy, health policy, a specific policy for entrepreneurs, tax policy etc. I asked about senior policy because I think we can agree that nothing is going to be the same because of the ageing process. And here again there was a very strong voice about what was happening about the retirement age, which so much, as we see today, affects the shape of the labour market, the functioning of businesses. It seems to me that wanting to achieve certain goals will not replace authenticity and cannot justify moving on to many fundamental issues where dialogue is absolutely necessary, authentic dialogue, difficult but based on facts, not just ideas, beliefs. Finally, such a return to the first sentences, combined with the wishes that the Social Dialogue Council would meet the expectation and, being a place of consent, had the courage to speak on the most important issues for all of us, so that the whole world would not change around us, and we would tell how well we talked together. This would bring advice to the role of fig leaf or to the role of an inauthentic place, a place where the most important things are forgotten. Here too, ladies and gentlemen, in Parliament, we are from the same cause, and we are also looking for this point of balance between the expectations of different groups, between the possibilities of the state budget and the opportunities of taxpayers, between the ability to develop and provide social security, and we see how difficult it is for us to do this, but we do not powder anything. Let's hope it doesn't. the participation of the Social Dialogue Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u145	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u146	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Madam President, I would like to ask you a few Mr President, Vice-President! Minister! I would like to thank for the work of the Social Dialogue Council, in which, in fact, it seemed, there has been a combination of fire and water, that is, trade unions with workers' organisations, and also the government, which is, as I understand it, in the middle or at least trying to get in the middle. The Social Dialogue Council has shown that it is needed. This is a place where we can actually discuss, discuss here and work out solutions. It is a pity that not all are taken into account, as is the case with the Act on the functioning of health care establishments, although I understand that too. The government is responsible and in a large part of these areas must have its own initiative, but this does not mean that it should not listen, should not talk and wonder whether the social partners or the opposition are wrong. After all, it is not that with different political views or working in different trade union organisations or employers, we are not trying to reach consensus on the basis of a substantive analysis, not just a political one. I believe that in order to build, create good law, it is important to consult and listen to the opinions of those who later have direct contact with this law. The proposal for the Council to also give an opinion on government programmes is certainly right, but it is not enough. The secrets are contained in the laws. The program is an indication of a certain direction and it can be implemented, may not be implemented, but the law is implemented. Therefore, I believe that the proposal that laws other than government, parliamentary and senatorial initiatives should be consulted with the council is absolutely right, also because, despite the fact that parliamentary laws, senators' laws it is not, of course, an invention of the last time, they are functioning and they should function, it is a lack of evaluation, not only of financial evaluation, of a budget, which these laws do not contain, but also of a lack of public consultation is a bad situation. It's a situation that makes these laws worse than they could be. I am also saying this because we have a flood of parliamentary laws in this term. But these are... I wouldn't protest the way I've done this many times from this speaker, if it weren't government laws filed as parliamentary laws. It's clear to me, I can see it. This is a deliberate avoidance of consultation, shortening the adoption procedure. Here, in this House, we had very important laws which were presented as parliamentary laws and which we adopted within a dozen hours, several dozen hours. This is the state. Unacceptable. And I think the council, by saying that they also want to review this type of legislation, is right. I support this to the law, to amend the Law on the Council of Dialogue this kind of principle, because we are powerless here when such a law pushes over within a few dozen hours, two days. And as I say, it was an extremely important act, a system. And it is not true that such consultations would limit the possibility for Members or Senators to submit such laws. That's completely out of the question. Consultations do not limit what is at the moment, but consultations cause that when we proceed with laws, we have a certain amount of information that we are not able to obtain in a short time, within a few days. So I believe that it should not only be an opinion of government programmes, but it should also be a duty to direct all, including Members' and Senate's, projects for consultation in the Social Dialogue Council. Congratulations on your work so far, I hope that your competences will be extended. 'Cause you gotta make sure you get those skills. For us, senators, this is important. This opinion has been extended. Of course, we also need to take care to strengthen the Council of Dialogue, to strengthen its position, because the Council of Dialogue was needed, needed and needed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. You're Marshal Sewerinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u148	Mr. Marshal! Dear guests! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! As a senator, but also as a person who deals with the scientific issue of labour relations, which cannot be overlooked in an institution such as the Tripartite Commission, and now the Council of Social Dialogue, I would not be able to speak at such a particular moment, even I feel obliged to do so, in order to remind you that the Council of Social Dialogue is a tool of democracy and is also the result of a certain democratic process or democratisation primarily of labour relations. Because no matter how the powers of this council work in the future, And they are certainly of a developmental nature, what the Social Dialogue Council is doing today, that is probably not the destination yet. Already today, it can be said that it is a significant tool for democratisation of labour relations, employment policy, social policy, and given the new wording in the law on the scope of competences It is also a tool for democratic dialogue on economic matters. I think it is also clear that it is a permanent body of our social and democratic order. Those who are closer to this issue know that it has grown from the experience of Western countries, e.g. France where that body was not of a permanent nature. In a context of a particularly serious social or economic crisis, or a social crisis that has grown around the economic crisis, an ad hoc dialogue was established at the highest level, at national level, in order to prevent the expansion and deepening of the crisis. It seems that Poland is an example of the evolution of this body, which leads to recognition of its permanent presence in the structures of social dialogue, in the structures of democracy in our country. And this is an experience that can serve as a benchmark for other countries that observe the development of the economic and social, systemic situation in our country. I have the right to assume, on the basis of my scientific contacts, that the activities of the Social Dialogue Council are also being observed in this respect. So an institution of democracy, a permanent, not ad hoc, not ad hoc, and competences that are not finally defined. It is in the practical trial of this institution that its competences will evolve. It is from the experience gained from the Tripartite Commission's operation that a new version of this tripartite dialogue, which we have on the basis of the Social Dialogue Council, has just emerged. And I think that there are no legal or factual obstacles to the Council of Social Dialogue being and being an organ, a partner in our legislative work for the Senate. I'm sure it is. There are no legal obstacles so that, in particular, representatives of the board can be invited to take part in the work of the committee on draft laws at the stage of work in committee, and that they can be consulted on these matters. Finally, I would like to mention that the public opinion will probably observe ongoing work on codification of labour law with interest. And I think that the Social Dialogue Council in this codification process will want to play a role and will certainly play a major role. I can't imagine today, given this already strong position of the council, such a great undertaking as the codification of labour law. That we once failed for various reasons and which we are now taking on again was to take place without participation, without the vote of the Social Dialogue Council. Because, in particular, this part of our legal order must simply be the subject of an agreement, the consensus of these three great social forces and great forces in public policy: government, workers and employers. Only then can it really be a constructive regulation. I'll be watching it with interest. I wish you here, the authorities of the Social Dialogue Council, not only good cooperation with the Senate where you have to present a social voice in legislative matters, but that in this very great legislative work in the field of labour relations, employment policy, social security, the Social Dialogue Council plays an increasingly important role. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The discussion is closed. Would Madam President of the Council for Social Dialogue Henryk Bochniarz still like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches in the discussion? [[President of the Council of Social Dialogue Henryk Bochniarz: No, thank you.]] No. Thank you, Madam President, for presenting the report to the Senate. I state that the Senate has read the report on the activities of the Social Dialogue Council for 2016. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Regional Financial Chambers and certain other laws. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm gonna have to have a brief technical recess by 5:30. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 26 to 17 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u150	I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Regional Financial Chambers and certain other laws. I'd like to speak to Minister Zielinski, please. We continue to ask questions. I suspect there will be more questions. There you go. Senator Antoni Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u151	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have one question regarding the justification for the bill presented by the Minister. Namely, you claimed that the debt of local governments is very high in Poland. You have provided data, and as one of the responsible institutions, you have just pointed out an institution that is undergoing very far-reaching changes, you can say, systemic. So I have a question for you. Has another solution been considered when it comes to local government debt and the inclusion in the Public Finance Act of the possible level of local government debt? It could be 30% or 35%. , and in specific cases where it would be greater, approval should be obtained e.g. Minister of Finance. This would be done by one provision, not by changing the large institution we are talking about today, with all the consequences of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u152	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister. [[There's an expenditure rule for local governments.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u153	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! High Senate! I think we're talking about two different things. The spending rule of local governments exists and determines the amounts to which the local government may be indebted. I understand that the senator would like to consider whether or not to lower those thresholds. It does not seem reasonable today, but it is important that there is a state body which, according to the existing rules, can control the regularity of the expenditure of local government units not only in the context of debt thresholds but also within the whole spectrum of public spending. And to do so according to the rules of supervision and control laid down in the new version of the Act on Regional Accounting Chambers. That's the answer. If I'm going to answer your question directly, Mr. Senator, whether or not we've been considering it, then I can say that in some sense yes, but this is not a matter of regulation. Because we thought that those regulations that exist in terms of debt thresholds and government spending rules... I'm not finding enough arguments to challenge them today, I'd say.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u154	Thank you, Minister. Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u155	Minister, you've already answered, but I'll ask you again. I mean, above all, the elimination of competitions. Because in general, many of the laws that passed through the Senate and the Sejm were related to the liquidation of competitions. Well, I could... Civil service... There's been a lot of that. But, as I recall, this liquidation was not in the government project, it appeared during the session of the Sejm, someone from the opposition tabled an amendment to liquidate these competitions, and you said, Minister: well, since the opposition has submitted... The Sejm voted and it came out of the Sejm. Then I'd like to ask what the ministry's position was on this case. Because it is always that proposals are proposals, but there are discussions at committee meetings and either this proposal is supported or not. Did the government support the liquidation of competitions as regards the Presidents of the Regional Audit Chamber and as regards the members of the college?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u156	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u157	I have here, I do not hide a certain problem, such a very technical problem, with the answer to this question, because I did not participate in the previous stages of legislative work, so I do not know exactly whether during the work on the amendments there was a formulated question, what is the position of the government, and whether the representative of the government answered this question. Therefore, I am unable, Senator, to answer you precisely.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u158	Thank you. Senator Andrzej Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u159	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question about the scope of the tasks which, as we are talking about here, are now going to the regional accounting chambers. Because I suppose if there is, let's say, checking economy and purpose, then work, control could be even more. Well, because in many cases they'll also be kind, there'll be reports, there'll be evaluations: it's not economic, it's not purposeful, it's to give it to the regional clearing house, let them check, let them issue a verdict. Does the Ministry plan to increase employment and increase funding for regional clearing houses? Because, as is apparent from the scope of the task, it will be intentional and meaningful.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u160	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u161	This question has already been formulated before the break and I have answered it in the way I am going to answer it now: no, there is no increase in the number of posts. This is more about improving and clarifying the criteria for supervision and control rather than such an automatic increase in their number. Whether there's more or not, it's hard to judge. But there will be other rules, such as those laid down by the Act in question, and the criteria according to which the activities of the Boards of Auditors in relation to local finances will be carried out. So it's hard to say today, time will show, to tell you the truth, you have to say it honestly. What's it gonna look like? And perhaps there will be some such conclusion in the future. But it's hard to decide today. Perhaps not, either. In short, the law itself does not imply an increase in the number of checks and therefore an increase in the number of posts.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u162	Thank you. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u163	Thank you very much. Today we will not give you peace of mind with these competitions. I'll take the question... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: It happens.]] ...Senator Flork. I take it you don't know what your position was at the Parliament meeting. But you know what the previous position was. And that position was that there were competitions. Therefore, I am asking you about your current position, not in the Seym, but in the Senate. And I would like to point out, Minister, that we can still introduce these competitions, as the Senate is a completely separate Chamber and has the opportunity to do so. So that if the Minister believes that competitions should be introduced This was the position of the government during the submission of the above-mentioned proposal. We will be very happy to vote in favour of these competitions. And then we'll be clear if it's not a political decision, or if it's a government decision. So that I would like to hear from you here what is the current opinion of the government on these competitions, what is the opinion of the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u164	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u165	Senator, I've already told you that the government presentation was what I described it with a contest rule. I was talking about the changes that have been made to the Parliament's work. I also said before the break that the government did not re-attach the position on the whole project, the one that was developed during the parliamentary work. Today, on behalf of the government, I do not wish to go back to that solution, and I do not see any danger of a law in this form being able to function well.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u166	Thank you, Minister. Senator Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u167	In that case, Minister, while continuing on this subject, I will refer to the equipment, because the formations of the courts They're supposed to judge in the regions, well, it's about saving up on delegations so they don't drive, smaller stores... However, the President indicated at the committee meeting that the chambers were not prepared for this. It's about rooms. Because guests are invited, the way of registration... that there will be costs for this and that there are no funds for it, there is no money and therefore there may be a problem that such ruling will not be possible without an additional financial contribution, preparation of these premises. In that case, do you have any idea what you're talking about? Mr. Minister, you too. Do they consider that this will not be a problem, or should the chambers be supported financially at the moment so that if these formations are set up in the field, they are properly prepared for this?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u168	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u169	Mr. Senator, I think this problem can be read at this stage as a little artificial, but perhaps this opinion will verify the time. Because we are ahead of the budget period for next year, then, of course, the next years, because this is a longer perspective, and if such conclusions arise from the presidents of the regional financial chambers, then we will consider this, we will refer to it, of course, with a great understanding of the conditions necessary for the smooth running of the work by the regional financial chambers. It seems to me that at the moment, because this problem has not been raised in such a very strong way, apart from one answer you quote, there is no danger for today. We would have to take stock of all those premises with regional clearing houses at all, look at the time the formations work to assess this. Well, it's hard to say in theory if it's like this or not. It seems to me that there is no obstacle for the teams, not the full compositions of the colleges of the regional financial chambers to decide, and that this, combining time and space, so to speak, means these local and temporal opportunities that exist, can increase Sorry for the expression can colloquial, not elegantly worked through those things that go to RIO.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u170	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Maybe still, Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u171	'Cause I still owe you an answer about the Legislative Board. It was a cost-effectiveness criterion. I just want to quote a passage from the Council's position, because before the break there was a question of what arguments the Council used, so just a brief passage I would like to mention. It is a change in the addition of a new provision, Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 introducing a cost-effectiveness criterion for RIO audits of statutory debt instruments, as this is the case. This amendment is recognised by the Legislative Council as being constitutionally compatible. Such regulation will allow for a fuller evaluation This is the Council's position A certain fragment, but for the image of the financial condition of JST the most important: the financial economy of these entities, i.e. the most important categories of debt sources belonging to the sovereign public debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u172	Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Grzegorz Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very interesting debate and a very important change, but I was a little concerned about the tone of the discussion imposed by the Civic Platform Club and the statement of Senator Klich, who, when he applied for this bill to be removed from the agenda, said that the reason for this proposal was that the control by the regional accounting chambers would concern the management of public funds by local governments. The stone of images for the opposition senators is that regional accounting chambers will control the management of public funds by local governments. Well, it's risky enough, I'd say, to justify resistance to this bill. In a sense, this existing regulation on regional financial chambers was flawed. She assumed that there was some kind of control over the functioning of local governments, of course, financial control. But this check, as defined in the previous Act, did not comply with those basic, most important principles that are... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm very disturbed by this conversation, Senator. [[Senator, hello!]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Sorry.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Thus, the current regulation did not meet those basic criteria which are adopted for financial control. Let me remind you that the Supreme Audit Chamber, which is, you can say, a model for the functioning of state control in our country has adopted 4 basic criteria: legality, economy, reliability and purpose. These criteria, in some sense, also define the expectations of a controlled entity. So it is expected of those whose Supreme Audit Chamber has its control that they will act legally, economically, fairly and intentionally. During the debate, the question was what honesty meant. I looked in the Polish dictionary. Well, that means doing your job properly. In the case of local governments, this means e.g. the timely adoption of resolutions. After all, there is quite an important problem with the timely adoption of resolutions that concern the financial economy of local governments. We've seen it in a lot of places. As far as economy is concerned, I don't think I have to explain the dictionary meaning of the term. After all, it is particularly important for those who manage the public pennies to spend these funds properly, economically, i.e. to take care of the public funds entrusted to it. Why did you take the issue of economic control as the purpose of the attack on this law? I don't think anybody who comes to this bill with good will can understand that. We have heard such great slogans here. Well, if the attempt on self-government is to control the economy, it seems to me that we live in two different value systems. For me, self-government is the basis for good management. Bad self-government is such a self-government which leads to disaster, to ruin of the finances of the self-government. In my constituency, there were local government authorities who led to the fact that they were shutting down city lanterns after 10:00 p.m. to save money. And it was enough to change these local authorities so that suddenly it turns out that there is a surplus in the budget of this local government unit. So there are simple reserves here that this is the economic criterion that is being introduced. There is a local government that is economically active. And this criterion introduced into the law, introduced as one of the principles of control, as I said at the outset, creates such an expectation. Yes, we expect local governments to manage their finances economically, that they will manage the money entrusted to them and that this economy will be the card of local governments. In order to ensure this economy, it is necessary to have control by the regional accounting chambers, because the very awareness that such control will take place encourages good behaviour. Many times during this debate, the Senators who opposed this law mixed the concepts of supervision and control. The supervision of local government units is of course exercised by the voivode and it is he who has the right to challenge resolutions. But the voivode. He doesn't control the spending, he doesn't check the government's books. In addition, there is a regional accounting chamber which is not a supervisory authority and is a control body. Finally, there is a conflict between the Supreme Audit Chamber and the Regional Audit Chamber. Well, if such a conflict were to be caused by this law, it could be said that it exists for a long time, because the very fact that there are regional chambers of accounts creates such a duality here. The Supreme Chamber of Control has the right to enter and control the self-government, it is true, but it is not a specialised body here, it is not the unit that is to constantly ensure the regularity of the self-government economy. In order to control nearly 2.5,000 local government units, regional clearing houses are needed. This has long been decided, so this charge of conflict or conflict of competence, as I believe Senator Augustine put it, is, in my opinion, a completely missed charge. We are dealing with the overlap of competences here, but above all, we are dealing with specialisation. With a specialised state control unit, which is the regional clearing houses. This law will certainly increase the discipline of public finances in the part that remains the responsibility of local governments. We want local governments to invest in good management, but we want discipline. Yes, we want discipline. Those who manage the local government's penny need to know that they are to spend this money according to the goal rather than what seems attractive to them in the context of their political behaviour or political power. And we have many examples in the local government's activity, when local governments spend a penny on things that are not meant to be... do not do good to the inhabitants of a given local government unit. To give an example: such an event, which surprised me very much, was the financing by the city of Gdańsk of the banquet on the anniversary of the Constitutional Tribunal. What good for the people of Gdansk came from this banquet, I do not know. It's hard for me to tell. So it's worth it to have such a control of the purpose of spending money... [[Oh, we already know what's going on.]] ...because the target must be related to the essence of the individual's functioning. Local governments are designed to serve the inhabitants of a given local government unit. So that the law discussed here will increase discipline, improve the activity of regional accounting chambers and thus contribute, to the benefit of citizens, to the flourishing of self-government in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u174	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Sławomir Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to, ad vocem, to speak by Senator Bierecki about the purpose of spending local money on celebrations such as... [[To the banquets.]] ...the year of the Constitutional Tribunal, the body enshrined in the Constitution as an important factor in the structure of the state... And would it be advisable to spend money? They are issued, e.g. to visit the President of the State in Gdansk? The government also bears the costs of this, because the activity of municipal services etc. She's expensive, too. [[Dinner.]] Or spending lunch. It is simply a misunderstanding to assess the city's expenditure in such categories. It is the law of local governments to spend public money whether it's for the anniversary of the Court or for the visit of the President of the State. Such circumstances must simply be counted into the functioning of the local government, in particular the big city. But I'm going back to the point. High Izbo, three weeks ago, on May 27 we celebrated the Day of Local Government and it was a good opportunity to remember history, but also to reflect on the fact that local government reform was probably the most successful reform, that it was the biggest success of changes in Poland after 1989. This is undoubtedly the most successful reform. And we all know that she has released the enormous civic energy of Poles, that she has allowed local communities to participate in public affairs. And the revival of local democracy has freed up the whole resource of entrepreneurship, creativity, increased our common social capital and has led to the flourishing of many small homelands. That is why it is worrying and must raise plans to amend legislation, which can, or can, be said to limit the independence of local governments with certainty. On the scale of the country there is a growing wave of criticism of the proposed law, protesting local communities, in particular because the project was properly ignored, which was agreed on in the committee of the common government and local government. There are first public resolutions or statements that criticize this state of affairs and refer directly to the Senate. I will quote a significant part of the resolution which the Sejmik of the Pomeranian Voivodeship took on Monday, 2 days ago. This passage, I think, largely reflects our, at least some of the senators, concerns about this project. It is addressed to us, so I allow myself to quote it. On 8 June 2017, the Polish Parliament adopted an amendment to the Act on Regional Financial Chambers, which significantly limits the independence of the functioning of local government in Poland. In view of the fact that further legislative work on this act will be carried out in the Senate, we ask the senators to pay particular attention and to the fact that the proposed new wording of the revised Act on Regional Financial Chambers provides for an extension of control in certain areas over local authorities with a criterion of reliability and economy. In our view, this undermines the independence of the local communities and goes beyond the framework of the Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down detailed rules for the application of this The Constitution shall determine the independence of the municipalities and the supervision of the authorities appointed to that institution of the State only as regards the legality of decisions taken. We stand in the position that the self-government community, i.e. all inhabitants of a given area, has, in accordance with the constitution, the right to decide for themselves, and the self-government carries out opinions on its own and on its own responsibility. Of course, the elected state institutions exercise supervision, but this supervision consists in determining whether the decisions of the local government are compatible with the law applicable to all citizens. The assessment and substantive supervision have so far belonged to residents, through democratic elections and possible referendums, and to councillors who are also legally exercising supervisory functions vis-à-vis the executive bodies of local government units. It is a constitution about these matters. Unfortunately, while ignoring the voices of the local government and even the legislative offices of the Sejm, on the incompatibility of this proposal with the Constitution, Members decided to include in the draft RIO Act That record. The extension of control powers to include new actors in the financial economy and the inclusion of economic and integrity criteria in the absence of clear control standards in all regional chambers can lead to subjective assessments and will result in lengthy appeals procedures. Thus, it can be envisaged that local authorities' activities may be paralyzed by the possibility of undermining any investment decision or purchase. In this context, we believe that it is particularly dangerous for the smooth functioning of the State to include in the Act adopted by the Sejm amendments to the laws on municipal, district and voivodeship implementing the institution of immediate enforcement of supervisory decisions in the absence of effectiveness of local authorities in the performance of public tasks. These records are very general and evaluated, which may lead to abuse of this right. Our opposition is also raised by the fact that the Sejm has substantially changed the procedures for the selection of members of colleges and RIO presidents, which will result in the submission of the RIO to the government administration. Regional Audit Chambers have an impact on the assessment of the financial management of local governments, so they should be independent of government administration and be state supervisory and control authorities of the local government. High Izbo, the last quote from this resolution. In 1990 the Senate of the Republic of Poland came out with a legislative initiative to rebuild local governments in Poland and for years was their great promoter. These reforms liberated the great energy of Poles, empowered local and regional communities and brought many positive changes to the country. In view of these experiences, as well as the interests of the Polish state, whose local government is closest to the citizens, we call on the senators to remove the RIO Act from the amendment. changes that weaken local governments and aim to increase unnecessary bureaucracy. We hope that the senators in the legislative work will take into account the comments of the Sejmik of the Pomeranian Voivodeship expressed in this resolution. Your Senate, all I can do is join this appeal. I believe that this law would be best rejected, of course, and such a proposal would be made by the Platform Club in the Senate. I refer here to the reflective function of the Senate, which was discussed today at the meeting of the Social Dialogue Council by the marshal himself. I call on us not to worsen the local government in Poland and not to restrict the powers of the local government, because without such a self-government there would be no Poland, no democratic one, nor such a modern one. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u176	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u177	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We had just here a report on the activities of the Social Dialogue Council, we hosted important guests and discussed how social dialogue in Poland is currently being conducted through the Social Dialogue Council. We mentioned, among others. about government projects that are consulted at government level. We also talked about the problem of parliamentary or senate projects. They're not a problem in themselves. The point is that they are not subject to such discussions and are not the subject of agreement in the Council of Social Dialogue. I asked President Bochniarz about our RIO bill. The law was actually consulted, but it was a completely different project than the one that we have today's basic elements have changed in the Sejm. We can therefore assume that there has been no consultation with the Council of Social Dialogue on this subject. That's what I wanted to inform your senators. The second thing I would like to say is that the other social partners, i.e. in this case all the local government organisations that have spoken on this subject, have not been heard and have not been taken seriously and have given very important arguments, such as. in the aforementioned resolution of the Sejmik from Gdansk. Ladies and gentlemen, what does this mean? Someone very nasty could say it's just manipulation. It first consults a project and then changes it. This concerns, Minister, among others. These competitions and this economy, of which you spoke so much about here, Senator Bierecki. I don't have time, because I want to say a few more important things, but if I did, I would say, Mr. Senator, about the mismanagement that takes place in government spheres. Just think about one thing... I'm not gonna talk about any of those state money parties that are just dinners and feasts. I'd like to say that right now... Under this law, we release many employees during our work. I want you to count how much the checks cost, and tell me if it's cost-effective. How much it costs to pay compensation if we throw the directors out of the institution, employees, etc.? Such cases are in court, and these people often win. Count how much, at least in this respect... Is this economy, sir, Senator? Here's what I'm gonna say. You were talking about government debt. It is right that Senator Borowski noticed that the scale of this phenomenon is not so large. It was bigger. I remind you that the debt of local governments was higher. Minister Rostowski pointed this out in the previous government and put in place certain mechanisms. Of course, local governments were also storming, just as they are today, while this debt has been significantly reduced. I will also say that this debt often has a very good explanation. Where did this government debt come from? It's not a matter of government loves debt. If a host is wasteful, it is most often verified and rejected in these elections. These mechanisms don't always work, but somehow they work. Debt in the last five years has increased, among others. because they came to Poland with huge financial resources from the European Union. In order to make investments in their territory, local governments had to make their own contribution. And that's why the debt increase. But I don't think the argument is... I do not think it is right to argue that this law is in debt. She's for something completely different. For example, the fact that competitions are closed shows the intention. Minister, they're being decommissioned so they can put their men in RIO leadership positions. . In fact, it is done in order to subjugate self-governments, we need to make it clear to ourselves. We, at least on the other side of the room, understand that very well. In my opinion, this is another element of the change that is taking place in the country, which means subjecting ourselves to further elements of political life. After the courts and tribunals it was simply the time for self-government and this is the first step. We'll probably meet here, I expect further steps. However, this step is unacceptable. Do I have any proof of that? Yeah, very simple evidence, e.g. So far, the Prime Minister has consulted the Seymists. I draw attention to the fact that he consulted, that she was not valid. Why was this deleted? After all, this is a great example of government intentions. You just don't want to dialogue, you don't want to talk. You, Minister, have no intention of discussing with local governments at all, because, as I said, all organizations have pulled this project downstairs and have shown how harmful it will be for the local government and how far it is. What did Senator Rybicki talk about? Also unconstitutional, because it enters a sphere where the state should not enter. In my opinion, in the case of these mechanisms, one might wonder... 'Cause, you know, like... shortening your term to two okay, there is no problem with that, but other elements, Mr. Minister, testify to your intentions. Abandoned competitions. The competitions are already closed in the next law. They were on a government project, but they disappeared suddenly. Like I said, is this... Only the word "manipulation" comes to mind, because since you consult the law, Minister, in which there are competitions and in which there is no record of the economy we have been talking about, i.e.. I thought we were talking about a different bill. So that I would still like to check whether the government has actually prepared a bill with competitions, which is why I am making an amendment and I would like the Minister at the committee meeting to refer to this amendment. She restores the competitions to the seats of the presidents of the chambers of account. You told Senator Rybicki about constitutionality. It's obvious to me. I'm surprised you didn't... I feel like you don't even want to leave one thing that's independent of the government anymore, from anything. You think the state should be omnipotent, that it should go anywhere, control everything. I'm warning you, because this is a very wrong path, and I don't think society will agree. He's not gonna say yes. At this point in time, I am surprised that everything so lightly, easily passes through Parliament, but in fact, my fellow Members, we should have long said 'bast' and enough of that. We take these changes step by step too far. I heard a lot of hypocrisy here, not even so much from the Minister, who somehow was sparing in words, but what you said, Mr. Senator, about this economy, it sounded like a joke. I have been a local governmentman for many years, for many years I have worked in the local government and I know very well what a huge, responsible job it is, Mr Senator, I know how many self-government workers are in Poland, who work, often dedicate their lives to this activity, work as councillors or as self-government workers, voivodships, presidents. They are subject to verification, not like some company presidents, they are subject to verification every 4 years, every 4 years are checked and selected. If someone doesn't make it, the locals can cancel it. You can't give such a reason as mismanagement, because it's just nonsense, and this example from Gdansk, which you gave, is embarrassing. You've given me, like, goals, intentions. I'm afraid right now. I just tweeted about it on Twitter. I do not know now that you will accuse President Gdansk of organizing a party on the occasion of the anniversary of the Constitutional Tribunal, or that he has hired an orchestra, played, sung something in the centre of the city, and you will find it uneconomic. That's how it's gonna be. Your words are a clear example of how this law will be interpreted by the employees of the regional financial chambers, etc. At the moment, and I know these workers, these are outstanding professionals, the employees of the regional accounting chambers are learning for many years, they are often outstanding lawyers, poorly paid compared to other people doing this profession, they are outstanding specialists, and you are now throwing them all out, so that in these chambers people who will use appropriate arguments and listen to what the senators and Members expect from the employees of the regional accounting chambers, and they expect, for example. To consider it inefficient to have a party at the Artus Court. [[Mrs. Senator...]] I'm out of time, aren't I? [[...you have to host sometime, so that...]] Sorry, I had a chat. Maybe later... [[Yeah, maybe later. There you go.]] Yes. Well, maybe I can, if I have anything else to say, then I'll do it at the end. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u178	Yes, yes, of course. [[Mr. Marshal, as a corrigendum.]] Yes? What's the matter? [[Senator...]] Please, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u179	In the title of corrigendum. The senator misunderstood. Referring to this banquet for the Constitutional Court and the guests who arrived, I spoke about the criterion of purpose, not economy, and this is a very important difference. I don't think Senator Zdrojewska picked up that difference, so I'm asking her to correct her mistake on Twitter as well. He can check it out in the transcript. I was talking about the criterion of purpose, not economy. [[But it's about assignments. You're wrong.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u180	Thank you very much. It was a corrigendum, so there won't be a discussion. Thank you, Senator, because I was also afraid that giving a medal to the President of the Court could be treated as a mismanagement. [[Purpose...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u181	I'm the one who's gonna talk about it. Well, the purpose criterion is included in this law in relation to the tasks commissioned, and your statement did not concern it at all, so rather it was a freudian mistake which showed the real intentions of the authors of this law. If it were just as the Minister was trying to suggest that financial issues were at the heart of these changes, we would have to prove that the public finance sector to which the local government is managing, the hosts of public money worse than the state, and vice versa. This country has been in debt a lot faster for years. than the government, the debt of the state grew much faster because of this than because of the debt of local governments. But still... [[Mr. Rostowski...]] But yet, yes, it was Minister Rostowski who, in trying to save the situation of public finances, proposed an expenditure rule, which we argued very much about here, but, whatever we might say, it has resulted in a decisive improvement in the discipline of public finances in local governments. And it's getting better, not getting worse, but getting better. At this point in time, you are trying to prove that there is an urgent need to increase control over the finances of local governments. Well, ladies and gentlemen, that's certainly not the case. There's enough in the control board. In the control authority, in my opinion, there is even an excess. A month's inspection goes in and out of office. Nothing and nobody in Poland is as controlled as the local government. Why? Because nearly 200 laws apply to the functioning of the local government, because it actually applies to all areas of the life of citizens, and this applies to many institutions. That's why there's so much control, that's why they're subject to... We have recently had a report on the CBA's activities here, and we have seen how this service often controls the activities of local governments. The second point that has become apparent on this occasion, which Senator Zdrojewska mentioned just now... This is very embarrassing, this is not a manipulation, Minister, as the senator has said gently, the government has mocked the local government. First, he seemingly agreed to these arguments that there are no reasons for introducing additional control instruments and then, also with the hands of ministers who are also Members, voted in favour of destroying this agreement. This is an outrageous situation, but it shows, and it is not just her, what is the real attitude of this government towards local governments. What other examples are there? But of course, the Warsaw Act, but of course, the issue of changing the electoral ordination and many other signals that show that the government not only does not trust the local government, the government has some intentions towards local governments. This intention is primarily to make them dependent on each other, to take over the political guardianship of these local governments, since it doubts the government and the PiS that it will succeed in a democratic procedure in taking power in local governments. It's not a bat. It's a bat. Not like this, it's another way. Here you go, here's the way it was found. RIO is to become such a politicized control over the actions of local governments. For that to happen, you have to clean the RIO. of those who could impartially check public finances. And that is what will happen, one general purge, as a result of this law all RIO employees They'll lose their jobs, few will stay. Those who will direct them will be politically given, because without any consultation with the local government and without any justification they can be appointed as heads of the regional financial chambers, and without any justification they can also be dismissed. The same goes for the members of the colleges, because they can be appointed by the RIO heads. , but after agreement with the Prime Minister See section one. So we're at the moment when the cleanup takes over the political guardianship of the RIO and, in addition, equips them with new powers that may be subject to political judgement. How far away? It was Senator Bierecki in this Freudian mistake who showed what might happen in a moment. And that's the scenario. I would like to make you aware that this bill is being passed not too late, but just in time for President Adamowicz and many others to call with the help of RIO into political order. And since, in many cases, this judicial review will come at a time when the state will also take political custody, the circle is already completely closed. That is why it is clear that anyone who believes that self-government is the basis of democracy must oppose these rules, especially here in the Senate, who, because in 1990, trying to build the foundations of democracy, started from the self-government just, always considered himself an informal guardian of local governments. Well, ladies and gentlemen, if we agree to these rules today or tomorrow, it will mean that from this role, at least in most cases, the Senate abdicates. 'Cause we're gonna put our hands together to undo the work for so many years. And as Senators of the PiS, and as Senators of the Platform, when here, in this Chamber, we celebrated the 20th anniversary of the reborn self-government, we said in agreement that the local government reform was successful and that it was one of our greatest successes, the first great success of democratic reconstruction in Poland. Now, unfortunately, if you do not take into account our amendments and our opposition, mocking the agreement of the Commission of the Common Government and the Territorial Government, you will have to put your hand on an absolutely wrong case. Ladies and gentlemen, I am old enough to remember the government of my town. He was also elected, he had counsel, he also passed resolutions, although everyone knew that he was inauthentic, politically subordinate, and that he did not represent those who voted. You are so attached to the word "national," and paradoxically it was also a national council. City National Council. And such national councils may be played in the near future, of course in other realities, with other tools, but the effect will be the same. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u182	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u183	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I was sad to hear Senator Augustine speak because he said everything I wanted to say. I'm after him, so all I can say is that I'm signing off on it, and add a few more notes. Well, I looked at the justification of the law that was made in the Seym. We in the Senate, when we receive these laws, no longer have these reasons, and it is worth looking at them sometimes. In the first words of this justification, I read that the main reason why this law was created in general is that I quote "anti-action of adverse trends related to overindebtedness of local government units." The municipality of Ostrowice is given as an example. I must say that she is already becoming the most famous municipality in Poland. It's the only municipality that's been built around here. I must say that my amazement has aroused the fact that such a serious bill, which overturns everything in the field of regional accounting chambers, is given with such a fragile justification as the municipality of Ostrowice. Then take out Ostrowice commune! What's the problem? That can be done. But there are no calculations, there are no indicators, there are no arguments to show what the debt is like, whether it is growing or decreasing, how many municipalities, etc. Today Minister Zieliński gave the debt statistics in proportion to the income. This is no longer the case, Minister. This principle existed until 2014. Other rules have been adopted since 2014 I don't know if the Minister knows that. Other rules have been adopted, better. Namely, the approach to local governments was individualized. I will inform the High House, or at least those who do not know that it looks different today. Namely, the ratio of interest paid on various types of loans, guarantees, guarantees, etc. is calculated. to income. The percentage, not the debt. And this ratio of interest to debt should be less than the average of the previous 3 years of the budget surplus, which is that we make a difference between current income and the sale of assets and current expenditure. And that's very logical. I can tell you that the ratio of public debt to gross domestic product e.g. in Germany, it is more than 70%. It is higher than in Poland, but there is no problem with it. And you know why? Because German bonds, so-called. Bundy, are interest-bearing 0% And they're bought. I mean, the degree of trust in them is that those who buy them would rather put money short, but even for zero interest, than place it elsewhere. Therefore, the German budget is virtually free of costs due to this debt. So it was justified to accept this principle. She's working. I was expecting to learn something about this. Of course, we haven't learned anything, and we're not going to find out, because that's not the point. And what's going on is that you introduced Senator Augustine here. If there is only a need to strengthen control, because there are areas where it may have been too weak, that is what the relevant guidelines are for, there may also be some laws in this area. But here we just list all the members of our colleges, that is, those who manage them. Why is he swapping? This... I mean, I don't know, but of course I do. There's no reason to do that. The only justification is that these new people are just going to be able to control themselves. The Minister said about these competitions, which there was a lot of talk about here, that it is debatable because there are such views that it may be a good thing, but there are other views that it is not a good thing, etc. Minister, I will tell you that there is an association in Poland that claims that the Earth is flat. There are different views on this matter. Yeah, there are those who say it's flat, based on two elephants, and those on turtles. And there are others who say otherwise. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: It is not that simple.]] Minister, this is easier than you think. Well, the competition can be misguided, and it's actually been fictional in the past, only your actions. I'm talking about the action of Law and Justice, which is that you're taking on some institution that's existed in the past, and you're saying that it didn't work well, and then you're eliminating it. Meanwhile, it was an institution well thought out, but badly implemented. Or implemented with flaws. It was about, for example. the independent prosecutor's office 'Cause the bill on her really had a problem. But you took her out, I mean. You've given all your power to the Minister of Justice. Civil service had competitions, these competitions were sometimes set, but you could count on you to change it, introduce full transparency in this case, because that was the announcement. However, it turned out that you are not eliminating competitions. And the same way you eliminate the competitions here. That's how you act, so to speak, institution for institution. What's the advantage of the contest? The competition has such an advantage that after the competition you can ask why this one, not that one, became president, and the answer needs to be explained. And if there's no contest, there's no need to explain. You could say no one really volunteered, so we pulled somebody out, we had to talk him into it at all... It's not just any change. And it's not a matter of any kind of discussion. Unfortunately, Mr. Minister, I bear even the most difficult criticism for me. I may disagree with her, but I accept her. However, arguments that give the impression that I'm being treated as some sort of mentally limited person just hurt me. And the Minister used such arguments. I've been a parliamentarian for too long not to know that there is no possibility that the government that makes the bill, and in this law the competitions are said, and yet it has been agreed with the local government, he suddenly had to say: yes, but it was reported in the Sejm, so we have accepted it, and so it is the Sejm... Isn't it? No, Minister, we know exactly what it looks like, i.e. that when the government says "no," it is "no." And I absolutely don't believe it's gonna be any different in this case. So, unfortunately, it seems like such a smart move: we agreed there, but here, you see, the Sejm took something else... It's very wrong. And it just gets a lot of trust in you... I mean, I'm not talking to you in the sense of you, but in the sense of our country. [[The voice from the hall: Well, it's going to be an underground country...]] So much for this. Now the issue of these mentioned economic checks. Well, I realize that control is one thing, and supervision is another thing, and that when someone controls something and points to some flaws, errors, it can be good. The Supreme Audit Chamber indeed Mr. Senator Bierecki was working on it here. It examines 4 features, it controls from this angle. Only that the Supreme Audit Chamber then presents a report, this report is then to some extent taken into account before the Prime Minister, by ministers, and that is all. At most, the Sejm may still adopt a resolution on this matter. And here we're dealing with something else. Well, we're dealing with the fact that we're introducing economic control. Although, as I read, in respect of debts incurred, and these debts are not incurred, I apologize for the reception on the occasion of the Jubilee of the Court, but for investments Therefore, this economy is controlled and, as a result of this check, a report is made, audit proposals are presented and are ordered to be implemented, and if they are not implemented, then we already have legality oversight. Yeah, 'cause it wasn't done, was it? And when there's legal oversight, then you can not only adopt some resolutions, but also the Prime Minister can step in, you can also introduce the commission board, etc. Unfortunately, Minister, the rifle that was hung on the wall in the first act must fire in the third act. You can say no, no, it's not for that, we'll see how it works... But I'm afraid when we see how it works, it'll be too late. Because unfortunately, you've expanded the scope of these controls in a way that will lead at different moments in different places. First of all, in relation to those self-governments who will, so to speak, be very uncomfortable for the authorities... And I'm not just talking about your power, but by the way, because if this solution were to stay for longer, it would be a really bad solution. It's just a stick for this kind of self-government and it's unacceptable. If it was just control, I wouldn't have said anything, although I'm afraid these controls are just too much. But if it were, and if it were RIO, And she said, "Listen, you've been acting badly here, we're presenting this information to the council of the commune, think about it, do something about it. Only, unfortunately, from this law can there be further and very serious consequences. That's why this law I do not yet know what amendments will be in this form I cannot support. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u184	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Piotr Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Borowski, a part of it... Senator Zdrojewska has tabled an amendment, there are minority proposals, there is a whole list of them, please download them, there are minority proposals, there are amendments that have been tabled so far, there are a lot of them. First of all, I'd like to address you because I'm a little surprised at what Senator Bierecki said. As regards supervision, I ask you, as regards the supervision of resolutions, regulations of local governments, communal associations, etc., the voivode actually supervises. However, financial matters are excluded. For financial matters, the Regional Audit Chamber and the Regional Audit Chamber shall exercise supervision and control. Supervision This is a very important issue with regard to the control room. This is the supervision of financial matters. And it has to be distinguished. There is a provision in the Constitution on supervision as regards chambers, and here, in my opinion, there is no violation of the Constitution, because supervision is enshrined in the Constitution, and those tasks which fall within the scope of supervision are not changed specifically in this Act. In general, apart from this issue of formations, it is possible to discuss here These tasks do not change as this economy is included in the audit. She's not listed for surveillance. So you just have to tell the difference. That's why I'm surprised Senator Bierecki said that the Chamber is not a supervisory authority. It is, of course it is. But also control. That's what you need to know. Ladies and gentlemen, on 8 March 1990, there was a law on local government, a very important matter, an important law. And what has changed in Poland is that these national councils have ended, local governments have been equipped with property that they had not previously owned, managed and managed for the benefit of local residents. We remember that on 27 May 1990 it was also mentioned There were first elections to local governments, the first completely free, successful elections and the era of self-government began. It continues to this day and it is a pity that the government is trying to corrupt their functioning at the moment, not only local governments, but also many other institutions, but at the moment the government is also taking part in local governments. I remember the 20th anniversary of the local government, because it was held in Poznań. Lech Kaczyński was there at the time, performing, talking. I can't imagine Lech Kaczyński being against local governments today, for what you want to do in this bill. I had a chance to talk about it at the time... Well, it was a tough case, because it was a month before the crash, and there were other topics that were discussed. Anyway, as far as the government is concerned, we all said some years ago that it worked well. Of course, there were these problems about over-indebtedness eventually. Senator Borowski explained how it is now counted quite differently, and besides, there is no problem, because for several years, as it turns out, the trend is just the opposite. There is no over-indebtedness of local governments. We have data from the years 2012 and 2014, which the Minister presented, and it is clear that there is no such problem for this purpose. So the question remains: what is it? The point is that the government wants to completely subjugate regional clearing houses and want to influence them. Period. It's a simple matter. Contests that aren't gonna be... Of course, it is easy to appoint and cancel, which is why you have to cancel the competitions. As for the competitions that were before, I remember what the composition was and who were going to the competitions. They were representatives of various institutions, including the government, depending on what it was all about. And it wasn't that simple. Sometimes such competitions were not best decided, but those who met the criteria had the opportunity to join them, you could see who had joined, and you could choose. And now we don't know anything. There are criteria. It is the liquidation of competitions and the appointment by the President of the Council of Ministers. The Minister or the President of the Regional Audit Chamber has yet to speak here. As far as we're concerned, we've already talked about what these 2 and 4 months are going to look like. Of course, it's amazing that another group of people who have experience will be replaced and will have to look for a job. The matter of subjection and government remains. This is mostly about people. It's all gonna happen without a contest. Those who have been must be removed somehow. There is also a case of judgment. We'll name almost everyone. And what else? The formations have been reduced. The college was such an organ... I still don't agree with that. I believe that the formations they are not an authority because there is no provision in the Act that the formations of the courts are authorised by the authority. And I don't agree with all that. The formations are three-person, and we know what it's like to have a three-person composition in a given case. We know what it might look like in the future. I think the government's plan to subpoena the regional clearing house has been implemented. The government will have complete control here. Of course, for local governments, which has already been mentioned here and which I will not repeat, this solution is absolutely unacceptable. I'm convinced that no one who worked in the local government Whether someone was a councilman or was performing any other functions in the organ It cannot vote in favour of this law, because the local government is obliged to do something for all of us. This law is generally suitable for rejection and hence such a conclusion. There's a motion to reject the bill. Of course, if most of you decide... We know how this is done, we know that the discussion among you... I'm not gonna get into what it looks like. We know what it looked like when we adopted other laws. Substantive considerations often arise They don't count here. The good of self-government may not count either. And if you decide to adopt this law, know that there are still amendments that can at least improve it in a small part. We will expect you to accept at least some of the amendments that are tabled. If not, I will have no doubt that for the benefit of local governments in Poland, for the sake of their functioning, for the sake of economy... The economy will be controlled. It's added here. And this economy concerns not government tasks, but directly the functioning and activities of individual local governments. Of course you'll be able to... Let me put it this way: economy is difficult to determine. The economy is, as it were, defined in the NIK Act. Senator Bierecki was talking about it, too. But the interpretation in this regard is definitely loose. That is precisely what we will not describe, and in terms of economy, the consequences may have to be borne in mind. There's only one thing I'm afraid of. Although this applies only to debt matters, I fear that the authorities, i.e. the governor, the mayor, the president, the councillors, the members of the district boards and the voivodship boards, will be particularly afraid in the pre-election period. In a minute, in less than two years, there's a local government election. Therefore, it will be easy to accuse someone of mismanagement and say: listen up, dear councillors, uncles and mayors, we can control you in this respect and this may happen in such a way that before the elections you will lose your position. Right? Because this rigour of immediate feasibility is acting like a guillotine at this point. Of course, it will be possible to challenge it, to adopt appropriate resolutions, but it may be decided in a year, maybe in two, maybe three, and the election just, right away. This bill has been amended several times in the Seym... She's quite different from the first submission. Well, this cannot be done and such changes can be made at this stage. Is that legal? There is, the Members have the right, but the point is that it came out of this document, which is unacceptable. For the sake of local government in Poland, so as not to spoil what works well, and it has been functioning for many, many years. The local authorities are not overindebted, especially now that we should all vote against this law together. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u186	Thank you, Senator. They're asking for the floor of Senator Andrzej Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u187	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear Senators! I'm taking the floor because I think it's because of your experience that a few sentences are appropriate to say today. As far as my experience is concerned, from 15 June 1990 to 10 August 2010, i.e. 21 years and 3 months, I was an old man and a groom. Three times I've been elected a governor, four times, so I think I have some experience compared to some senators on this subject. When it comes to controls, I've been through what's left of them. I survived the checks of the regional financial chambers, I survived... At the beginning of these chambers there were no, only later they were created. I was controlled by the IRS, the Central Anti-corruption Bureau, the Supreme Audit Office, the Social Security Office. Review committees have dealt with a number of cases before and before the discharge, and on request. I had checks with RIO and those planned, and those on request. I had an NIK check on request... I don't know, I don't remember, but there was an immensity. As far as my brief opinion on this law and the amendments that concern the regional financial chambers is concerned, some changes were certainly needed. I'm not digging into all of them. If you were to consider economy and purpose... The task of NIK is to control the economy. He won't keep up with it for sure, because there are a lot of these units. If the issue of economy were to enter ♪ and he's coming in ♪ In the scope of RIO control, I will not protest, but on purpose... Well, that's totally out of the question. It is a municipality, the council of the municipality determines this purpose. Contests. Having experience with the action of the closest territorial RIO to me, I believe that there should have been a change in the course of the competitions. Ladies and gentlemen, lately I've been digging into the procedure of one of the competitions. It turned out that winning, as president, provided not substantive knowledge, but voting Colleagues. It's kind of like I'm the boss. The county was chosen not by councilmen, but by unit directors. That's what I think about it. I think it should be changed. Having, let's say, a certain overview of the situation, knowing the comments that have been made to me on this subject, I would very much agree with the fact that it was necessary to change the procedure for the election of the President. I believe that a very sensible change was proposed by the government, Ministry. Let me quote such a large passage from Minister Sebastian Gwałk's seismic debate, who spoke in this way... The project concerns the election of the President. The project also includes changes concerning the organisation of regional chambers of accounts, moving towards higher standards for the work of chambers while opening up more access to work in chambers. Here we introduce changes concerning the appointment of competition committees for the positions of the Presidents of Chambers, these committees will be appointed at the President of the Council of Ministers, and not, as yet, within the Regional Audit Chamber. The competition committee will consist of 5 members: one representative of the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister responsible for public administration, the Minister responsible for finance, as well as the National Council of Regional Courts of Auditors and the local government of the Joint Government and the Local Government. This will allow for impartial, non-intelligence and interdependencies within the Chamber to select the best candidates for presidents. At the same time, we allow you to apply for the status of a member of the college not only to a person with a 4-year traineeship in units connected with the functioning of local government or public finances, but also to a person with 4-year scientific and teaching experience. It's a pity that I'm just gonna end up with the principle that plus ratio quam vis... It would be a healthy rule, and I think any next one could apply it calmly. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u188	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u189	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The problem, Senator, is that what you called purposeful and sensible, quoting the Minister's words, is unconstitutional. I mean. You can't make a good law if you're breaking the law. And there is no higher law in the Republic than the Constitution. If it's art. 171 in its 3 points clearly states what is acceptable to power It is the constitution that defines the rights and freedoms of citizens, but it also sets limits on the operation of public authorities. This cannot be done by this article. 171 break. Unfortunately, this law constitutes, not the first, a violation of the Constitution in force in Poland. And this is what our concern and concern is about, and also such a belief that we are taking part in the next stage of the PiS trial with Polish democracy, that this is right in front of our eyes, with all the good intentions of the senator as an experienced local governmentman... We are taking part in another episode of the destruction of Polish democracy. Because the PiS knows perfectly well that democracy cannot be an empty concept, that it contains some content, that one of the elements of democracy at all is local democracy. And without local democracy, that's the will of the community. Whether it's communal or district or regional, it's limited by law, because it's the only limitation of the community's will, there's really no democracy. And with the naked eye you can see that you are dealing with Polish local democracy as you have discussed and dealt definitively with the Constitutional Tribunal. It's the same methodology, it's the same procedure, it's finally this one. Same purpose First lead to a reduction in competence, then paralyze and then lead to a takeover of control. The question is: if this methodology for every observer is obvious, the analogy in this method is obvious for every observer, then why do you need all this? What's bothering you in this local democracy? What are you afraid of in this independence of local governments in the Republic of Poland? After all, the elections of May 1990 were the first fully democratic elections in Poland. And as long as we are discussing when Polish independence began, whether in June 1989 or when the Mazowiecki government was established, or perhaps, as some people want, together with the departure of the last Soviet soldier from Poland in 1993, we have no doubt that this dot over and over in the renewal of Polish democracy was the elections of May 1990, because they were fully democratic. And now the limitation of competence, the scope of the freedom of local government is part of the same process which you have prepared in front of Poles and the world of Poland. I mean, it's art. 171 of the Constitution says that only the Prime Minister, the voivods and the RIO are in control, but in compliance with the law, i.e. with respect to legality, as the Constitution says. That's what the constitution says. The Constitution does not talk about management, it does not talk about the purpose of action, because of this, the councillors, the presidents, the grooms and the mayors account for voters and non-electants, and who participate in possible referendums. And that's two methods. It was not only accepted in Poland, because in some countries, for example. Switzerland, since the 12th century, to carry out a regular assessment of the elected authorities. A referendum and an election, not a RIO. So you are doing something that is a visible step in limiting the scope of self-reliance of our government, which the constitution does not allow you to do. You are doing something that in some time will lead to what the communists led to in 1950, eliminating Polish self-government. Because if self-government turns into a trap of self-government, just like the Constitutional Tribunal you turned into a trap of the Constitutional Tribunal, it will be an act equal to what the communists did in 1950. The only difference is that they did it under Soviet bayonets, and you don't have a foreign bat over your back or head. So the question to be asked is: why are you destroying Polish local democracy and do you really want to destroy it by starting a trial with it from what we are debating today? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u190	The next speaker is Senator Piotr Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u191	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Well, unfortunately for the bill, for applicants, I also strongly support the motion to reject this law. I, too, strongly support the motion to reject this law and solidarity, absolutely agree with the words made by the representatives of the Civic Platform Club by Mr. Marshal Borowski. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the bill is unconstitutional... It's not like the Minister said, that this is some kind of free reflection he used here even more, so to speak, a disrespectful term or diwags. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Here from this speaker was the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, I am thinking of Mr Jerzy Stepń, finishing his mission After all, there was not such a conflict yet, there was no conflict in the context of the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Tribunal was at that time an undisputed authority and recalled my wording from the discussion, and I had great satisfaction at that time, namely that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are predictable. Indeed, they were predictable, because there was a certain line of case law, the Constitutional Tribunal reckoned with the opinions of recognised constitutionalists who had given their opinion before the Court of Justice of certain decisions. And now we have predictability, just another. We have, as Senator Klich said just now, a fake... Actually, it's not even a fake, ladies and gentlemen. 'Cause if there's three people dressed up as judges... Because they're not judges, they're dressed up, they're sitting behind a jury dressed up as judges who were called by the Sejm, even without showing... [[applause]] ...when their term of office begins. The Seym, calling them, didn't even notice. We have the president, so-called. Madam President, who has not only been designated... the nominee of the President, who has not only received at least half the support, but also does not meet the requirement of the article. 194 constitutions. I meet with constitutionalists and they clearly say: the constitutional principle has been violated, because such a person according to the Constitution must stand out with legal knowledge. Me until the lady chooses. I didn't meet with any publication of her or any outstanding opinion. [[Mr. Senator, I'm calling you... to the point.]] No, because we have... [[This is not the subject of today's debate in the Senate.]] This is, Mr. Marshal... No, I am talking about the fact that today we have predictability as to the composition of the Constitutional Tribunal, which can resolve such a matter on order. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, even the present law speaks of the fact that the composition is being drawn. Here you are... the lady who is chairing the Court at the moment, throws an ankle and throws out an A, because it's a randomly chosen warehouse... Well, maybe she'll play a lottery in this situation. Well, this squad is randomly drawn. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think there are any naive people here who would believe in this kind of situation, that it's a composition chosen at random. I'm talking about it, Mr. Marshal, because we don't have... 'Cause who's gonna verify that? We need to verify this on the basis of opinions that already exist because we have no other criterion. That's the problem. We have the case law of the Court, which was predictable in the context of the doctrine of constitutionalists. Well, it was consistent, as I said, with that doctrine. At the moment, we are dealing with a completely different situation. We're out of scope for verification. After all, Prof. Izdebski has submitted an opinion on convergence, i.e. identity in the area of territorial self-government, tasks and competences set out in the Act on NIK with the tasks and control powers of the regional financial chambers provided for in the amendment and wrote that this raises fundamental doubts in terms of compliance with the Constitution. Well, he can't say directly that it's unconstitutional because he's not the Court. Here is a non-compliance with both Article. 16, 165, 171, 202 and 203 of the Constitution, as well as its preamble to the principle of state subsidiarity and efficiency of public institutions within the framework of the general principle of good governance. Well, of course, in the discussion at the committee meeting it was said that when it comes to the issue of purpose, these are tasks entrusted by the government. Yeah, it's through this delegation that the constitutional principle of subsidiarity is implemented. That is exactly what it is about, that the local government replaces the state to a certain extent. This is also why he was created, and in this situation he will be incapacitated. And there are reasonable suspicions that it will be politically exploited, and it should not be. At least that's what they're gonna be, and they shouldn't be. The principle of compliance with financial regulations is of course important, but the principle of purpose already applies... Since it's the voters that we've been talking about. They account for self-governments, they account for them comprehensively, also for the activity which concerns the property entrusted to them under the principle of subsidiarity. Therefore, this law It clearly limits the principle of self-government and subsidiarity, as well as the principle of good governance, resulting from the recital itself, which also has binding force. Further provisions, including non-constitutional provisions, concern the termination of the term of office of the Presidents. I would have agreed with President Spider if this had happened at the time... As far as competitions are concerned, this new appointment would be acceptable, but without the possibility of unconstitutional termination of the term of office. These are two different things, Mr President. And here the constitutional term is suddenly interrupted, and, ladies and gentlemen, the non-retirement members of the college are being eliminated. The employment relationship of non-retirement members of colleges is terminated before the end of their term of office. The termination of these employment relationships is not justified by both the legal and the axiological nature of the proposed law. And undoubtedly, these issues are in breach of Article. 2 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. If the Constitutional Tribunal had ruled in 2011 that a term of office could be extinguished in exceptional circumstances when dealing with an emergency institution, i.e. in a situation where we would be dealing with public administration reform... There is absolutely no such reform in the comprehensive aspect of the reform in 1999. Therefore, there is no basis for applying these exceptional measures. And the protection is being abolished, and I'm also finishing, Mr. Marshal, the protection of people in the pre-retirement period who don't receive any check-in. That's what the Ombudsman was talking about, and so on. So that for all the reasons that have been mentioned here, and for the reasons that I have said here, there is no real justification... On the contrary, a representative of local governments at a committee meeting said that the debt of local governments has decreased over the last two years. Therefore, it is also a justification that, so to speak, it absolutely cannot withstand criticism. Therefore, do not be surprised. I'm talking to the Minister and to the applicants. No wonder that there are such suspicions that, in this situation, are entirely justified, that the purpose of this law is simply different from that proposed in the explanatory memorandum. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u192	Thank you. The next speaker is Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u193	It's a very intelligent bill, but because this intelligence has been used in a bad case, I'm going to say it's a smart bill. It's not what was announced before. I mean, no running by two terms... i.e. If someone was running for two terms as mayor, mayor, president, but two terms back... That's what the PiS gave up on. Because it was very, I would say, primitive. And everyone at first glance knew that if this kind of principle had been introduced, which, of course, is unconstitutional... It was just such a rude whack... It was supposed to be a rude ax hitting to wipe out those who had a chance of winning in the next and subsequent municipal elections. And this bill, the idea that through colleges to supervise local governments, is from the point of view of what PiS wants to achieve, is a really good idea, chapeau bass, this is an interesting idea. But why? What is the purpose of this bill? Improved? Limiting what happens in local governments or the debt of local governments? Many years ago, the principle of limiting the possibility of debt was introduced. Crossing this financial principle would be a violation of the law, etc. And if there were such fears, then they were no longer valid. So what's this all about? If the Prime Minister appoints the head of the college, who oversees the local authorities in terms of not only legality but economy and purpose, then the government oversees it because that's what it looks like. And then the way this whole college is set up, the rest of this college is that here, too, we provide control... Of course, not quite, I understand that not quite, and I understand why the evaluations are to be made not entirely by the college, but in three-person teams. Because the chairman is one, I'm sure there'll be another available one, and the third one will vote out. So for me, this preparation and this formula, in which these colleges of appeal are to function, basically show what the purpose of this law is. In addition, the principle was introduced that in the context of supervisory decisions in the event of a lack of effectiveness of local authorities in the performance of public tasks, the Commission's Board of Directors could be set up. It is also possible to resolve or revoke the executive body of the local government when infringements are repeated. The decision shall be immediate, the appeal shall be examined within 30 days and the decision shall be immediate. So this is the whip for those self-governments that aren't yours or they're gonna jump. The repeated violations of the law... Well, twice, if the college finds out if the law has been violated... Well, at least twice... well, once again President Adamowicz will make some dinner or dinner for someone who doesn't like the PiS, and it could be a violation of the law in a continuous way. This, this bill, of course, is taking over the ability to supervise local governments. But can you do that? I don't think so. I think the local governments will defend themselves. That, of course, shows intent. This shows intentions, but this will not ensure the management through this type of body, decisions, through self-government colleges or influence on decisions of local governments. There may be a few, but Poles are human and brave and perverse, so I wouldn't count on it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u194	The last speaker will be Senator Bierecki. Five minutes, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u195	Thank you very much. I will try in a telegraph brief to refer to a series of speeches that have been written here. But I will start with this banquet, because in some sense I introduced it to the debate, a banquet issued by the city of Gdańsk for the Constitutional Tribunal. Senator Rybicki... [[And for President Duda?]] [[What's this?]] [[What difference does it make?]] Mr. Senator Rybicki, and now Senator Augustine, compared this to the President's hospitality, which comes from the universal choice... It's a comparison. [[Talking in the O.R.]] But, you know, the senators... I don't think you notice the basic difference. However, the Constitutional Tribunal is a court; it is a court. Is that allowed to sponsor the court? Is it okay to sponsor the court? Could this court, I say, accept such a banquet arranged by one of the entities operating in Poland? That's an important question. If I could advise President Adamowicz when he made this decision, I would advise him against it, I would advise him against it because, in my opinion, this offer of sponsorship, sponsorship violates or may be intended to violate the independence of the court. Courts must not be sponsored in any way, and here we have dealt with such an event. The inadequacy of the comparison of this banquet for the Court with the hospitality of the President of the Republic of Poland from the general election is probably quite evident to all present here. Senator Rybicki read the appeal of the Pomeranian Sejm, in which the Civic Platform governs. A very valuable thing is in this appeal. The same Sejmik of the Pomeranian Voivodeship draws attention to the lack of control standards in the case of regional accounting chambers. For me, this is very disturbing information. Perhaps this law is needed just to introduce these control standards so that these rules, these control standards were not regionally differentiated so that Poland is a single country also in terms of applied standards of self-government control. This is a very valuable point and I must say that I thank the Pomeranian local authorities that they have pointed out this extremely important problem, the lack of control standards. This bill gives us a chance to standardize it. A lot of great words came out here. If someone took these statements seriously, he might think that after the adoption of this law the end of self-government in Poland, while this law brings things that are the basis of self-government, strengthens this self-government. If we're talking about economy... [[Talking in the O.R.]] If we're talking about economy and we're expecting proper behavior in local governments... I will once again quote how the Supreme Audit Chamber sees this economy. I will read: the analysis of the controlled activity in terms of economy is intended to indicate whether the money was used cost-effectively and efficiently and the expenditure was proportional to the results obtained. Is that what you're afraid of? That's what you're worried about, is that the regional clearing houses are gonna check whether the money was used cost-effectively and efficiently, and the expenditures were proportional to the results? Well, if... [[Voice from the room: Purpose...]] [[They're different...]] That's the principle of economy. I read... Senator Klich protested, started this protest by questioning... For him, the principle of economic control was the stone of the painting. If this is what you fear in your local governments, where the Civic Platform rules, it means that this law is very much needed, that it is very necessary. Citizens expect a state of self-government... Local self-government is often seen as a state and a promotion of its own person, and resources from the local government budget go to very strange, misplaced investments. It is a good thing that regional clearing houses will also be able to check local governments in this regard. I think that's what citizens expect. And if anyone's afraid of it, it means he doesn't care about the well-understood strong local self-government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u196	You have a voice, Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u197	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. In the beginning, I will repeat and may I remind Senator Bierecki that the main reason for the bill was supposed to be that I would quote the negative trend of overindebtedness of local government units, not economics or mismanagement. It was placed as if on the second plane. And the plan first was this. When I said that, the senator wasn't in the O.R. I'm not going to repeat everything, of course, but I've pulled data on government debt here. This debt actually increased between 2008 and 2011. It rose from 32 billion PLN to 69 billion PLN. In the following years, it was 68 billion in 2012, 69 billion in 2013, 72 billion in 2014, and 67 billion in 2015. So we're dealing with stabilisation and even a slight decline in debt. That's one thing. Secondly, if we refer to increased revenues over the years, we can say that the relative burden on debt is decreasing. Thus, the thesis underlying the drafting of the Law on unfavourable trends is simply not true. It can be said that it is a kind of original sin that actually disqualifies this law from the very beginning. If it were to be limited to the question, let's say, control, then... Like I said, you can control the economy. He does that, for example. The Supreme Board of Control. If the Regional Chamber were possibly concerned with economy, we would have doubts as to whether it was necessary to impose even more control on the local government, but it is difficult. The question is this. Why replace all the chambers? Why replace the entire storerooms? Like Senator Bierecki... Goodbye, Mr. Senator. [[I'm not leaving. I'll listen, only somewhere else.]] Good. Senator Bierecki is so concerned about the economy and the fact that it is not necessary to be afraid of all this. If someone's doing well, there's nothing to be afraid of. Right? [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] Exactly. This is more or less like the case of Minister Ziobra, who introduces various surveillance methods and says that an honest man has nothing to fear. [[Yeah, yeah.]] The only problem here is who determines who's honest. That's it. And here, Mr. Senator, the problem is that the key thing is to replace all the people, appoint them and dismiss them without any competitions, without anything. So it's known that they'll be government people, prime minister people who will do whatever they need to do. And that's the problem. Less of this economy control I would be afraid of if I didn't know who was going to do it. [[On screen.]] And unfortunately, Senator Bierecki, I hope he's already reached the buffet. It's a bit of an accident, and I think he's already regretting it... [[For the Court.]] ...he mentioned an example of this mismanagement. The banquet was issued in Gdansk, not for the Court, because there were guests from abroad. It was a big undertaking. Each city in another country would be proud that that is where the 30th anniversary of the Constitutional Tribunal takes place. But that's a problem with us, isn't it? Therefore, what Senator Bierecki said is a great warning. This shows what will be done when needed. Local elections are coming up and I hope I'm a bad prophet. We will record the various cases of mismanagement that will be addressed. I don't think we here in the Senate will be indifferent to that. And I regret to you, Senator Spider, that he will probably have to vote in favour of this bill without amendment. You had 100%. That's right, speaking of these competitions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u198	Senator Rooster's voice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u199	Take it easy. What are you nervous about? Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Senator Bierecki thinks the same way. Mr. Senator Borowski, if someone's acting honestly, what's to be afraid of? Fear of what? So you wouldn't have such a merry face: you guys ruled eight years and also exchanged all the institutions. I don't blame anyone. I will use the example: Minister Pitera. There was a year before the parliamentary elections when I at the Disabled Persons Fund, where I was helping the poorest, had 23 checks sent by this lady. Dear Member States, I have no objection to her because I believe that there was money from the state budget, there was EU funds, and the checks came out perfectly. And let's not add ideology to who's in charge at some point. Because what are the marshals afraid of? They fear that if someone is law and justice, they will not receive EU funds. What are they afraid of? That he's handing out to his friends. I don't go to dinner, I don't go to other things. This is already an academic discussion. And let's not make any more ideologies. As you guys were in charge, as I explained on the example of my foundation, there were controls. I laughed because everything worked out perfectly. They've been chased for herring, for other things, and you've also exchanged people in all institutions, because, let's just say, you've given your own. And that's too bad. Here's what I'm going to say: there should be an American system in Poland. Democrats win, Republicans roll up to a certain level and Democrats bring their people in. It's the other way around, those other guys are swapping people to a certain level. Those guys leave right away with their suitcases, and the crew that runs it comes in. I think that's the most honest thing to do. And today we're looking for Mr. Ziobra's case, we're looking for other things. Gentlemen, if there's an Amber Gold scandal, if there's a fuel issue and a lot of other things, if there's one in the Police... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please don't disturb me. I didn't bother anyone. And if they're used to club cards... I don't even know what they're called, go-go club or whatever, what, you're supposed to let it go? Gentlemen, I don't blame you. I say this publicly to Minister Pitera that I had so much control before the election. And I could scream that it was a political decision. But I was convinced that we were making fair use of all our resources. And it wasn't possible to find anything unfair on any one penny... So it made me very popular, so that I got a lot more votes in the election. What are we afraid of? What? Well, if it's okay, then what are we afraid of? Audit chambers have still controlled, checked the local authorities, and will continue to check them. And let them check, let them pull out the mismanagement of the mobs, the mayors, the marshals, the voivods. What's the problem? Maybe we'll see this American system here, so it's actually what I said. Ladies and gentlemen, here's what I'm gonna say: not just the chambers... I don't want to mention it anymore, but when some of them left, for example. NIK was coming out, PFRON was coming in, other institutions were coming in. Sometimes it was like four controls came in at one time, and only two could control. I say, give these four seats, and you take these four rooms... They took my people away from my work. A financer for almost 3 months, but I didn't have a grudge against anyone. I laughed about it. But what, it wasn't a political attack on Rooster? Because he's strong in this area? 'Cause when it comes to the election, he wins with the biggest percentage? It was an attack released by... I won't tell who. But, gentlemen, let's hit our hearts. That's when the Platform ruled. And today I could demand: check how much it cost to appoint a Minister for Corruption! And what did she detect? Two herrings? So, gentlemen, it's not... Really pulling dinners out here is kindergarten. Well, that's preschool. And this is about other things. Here's what I'm gonna say: I think you should check what the money's going for... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I don't touch anyone, Senator Florek, because I'm not afraid of anyone. Let control come today. Even now, those who rule... I'm not afraid. Gentlemen, what are we afraid of? That they're running a polite and friendly arrangement at the level of self-government? 'Cause you show me how many law and justice people are making, and no motion goes through. You give money to the ponds, and you don't settle later on what the effect is, how many people are employed. Because I... this is where the Union should definitely step in, because every program should have a proven economic impact, i.e. It's how many people find employment later. What's wrong? Before the election, there's about a meter of pavement to get this neighborhood to vote later. Mr and Mrs Dear, I have been a local governmentman since the municipal level, and I can say a lot of things about it. You see, I'm not gonna hate anybody. Nobody, not even that Mrs. Pitera. I thank her because after that the employees also found out that there is control for every thing. Yeah, for everything. But if someone has a clean conscience, they shouldn't be afraid. We can all make up for ideology... Mr. Marshal, Minister Borowski is well aware that there is an ideology for every case and everyone can be attacked. Now there's this frontal attack on the government... Well, as it happens, so the Lord God has given that I am already here for the fourth term and I remember some speeches, I remember some blockages... Have we forgotten how long Mr. Romaszewski was blocked before he became Vice-Marshal? And today we all praise him. I remember the times, too. I'm gonna talk about it so you don't think I'm just talking about one thing. When Mr. Niesiołowski was in the P.O. and was also blocked. [[Voice from the room: Effectively.]] Effectively. Well, like I said, I remember different times, and I know what happened back then. But let's not really get hysterical and say that everything that Law and Justice and the excellent government of Mrs. Beata Szydło do is wrong. Well, are there people like that already, such losers? Excuse me, Minister for that word. It's like they're all incompetent people... And the super competent former Minister Piotrowska, how did she rule? She was super competent, yeah, super competent... [[Talking in the O.R.]] What are you pulling, Senator? Signing an immigrant case? [[So what?]] So what? And we can continue to discuss a lot of things. We can now remind France where the next Polish driver died... I'm not pulling that thread anymore. I'm really not pulling... Thank you, Mr. Marshal, because I really don't want to go too far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u200	Thank you, Senator. Let me inform you that the list of speakers has been... [[Voices from the room: No! No!]] ...extinct... Someone else signed up, right? [[Senator Zientarski.]] Senator Zientarski, right? [[Yes.]] Excuse me... [[Second speech.]] ...I didn't write you down at my place... There you go, sir. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u201	It's a shame you're not here... [[Five minutes.]] Yes. ...Mr. Senator Bierecki, because I wanted to make him aware of one very important issue, perhaps two, but the first one is that the Constitutional Tribunal is actually a court, only a court of law, not a court of clients, and that is an important difference. A court of law, i.e. laws that are judged against the Constitution. So if he thinks it's a judge of parliamentarians, they're judged by the Court. And, ladies and gentlemen, a self-government officer doesn't even have the authority to file a complaint. There is therefore no legal interest. And the government that invites the president has a legal interest, and that's certainly the kind of business he has. Therefore, please: if there are arguments, these should be serious, substantive, constitutional arguments. That's one thing. The second question... I return to the essence of self-government and to the essence of subsidiarity. It is said that... after all, I have consistently said both at the committee meeting and today that I am accusing the issue of the introduction of purpose, because there are people who... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...they are to be suddenly, with an insult to the constitution, deprived of their functions, there is an interruption of their term of office, because this is the most important thing, and they are to be called the people of their own, and must be an instrument... 'Cause it's not like that, Senator Honourable that... there were checks, but there was no charge. It's important. Because if there were charges and then you cleared yourself of those charges, that means you had to find something. But when it comes to purpose, that's when you evaluate it, you can always say that maybe it was better. If it was better that way, it would be more deliberate, it would be less purposeful... And now we return to the essence of self-government. Senator Bierecki said that this is what people expect. Whoa, whoa, whoa. People choose their representatives who do exactly what people expect. Otherwise they will not be re-elected. And that's logical. So it's not like self-government people do what people don't expect. After all, the government is also a council, it is not just a one-man body, the president. That's advice. Is the council, then, separated from... and acting against what people want? Well, that's what Mr Bierecki, Senator Bierecki, argued. Well, that's a complete reversal of the concepts of self-government, I think we're dealing with some kind of total misunderstanding here. That is the essence of self-government, that it is verifiable in the elections by local society. And that is the essence of subsidiarity, that the State transfers some of its powers to the local government in order to give more power to these communities and that the State actually becomes a civil state. And in this bill, there's a hit on these two basic, important rules. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u202	Thank you. Would any of your senators like to speak again in the discussion? Senator Chróścikowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u203	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Many of us in this room are self-government, and if not, they are former self-government. To be honest, local authorities certainly shouldn't be afraid of any control. I believe that today institutions that function and function often abuse interpretations in some cases. The senator here mentioned purpose. And I know a lot of cases that have been in these last years when the purpose criterion was applied. And you know who did that? The IRS. And he often justified the need for reimbursement by the fact that public money had not been spent on purpose. And he's been using it these past few years. I don't want to name companies, institutions that complained about us, how UKS was treated with purpose. That's all I have to add. [[So you're confirming my argument?]] For 8 years, the purpose was applied by the tax office. [[They've been abused. That's what I'm talking about.]] [[Sound of the bell]] [[You confirmed my concerns.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u204	You have a voice. Now, right? Would anybody else like to speak? If you don't, I'll say the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Komarnicki has made his speech in the minutes. You have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Czerwiński, Senator Bierecki and Senator Zdrojewska. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? If that's the case, you're welcome to take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I do not hide that the discussion was very interesting and informative. I'd like to refer to some of the threads. Firstly, there were very interesting wordings and conclusions about the Constitutional Tribunal, Senator. This predictable legal line is an interesting issue. As long as the Constitutional Tribunal was so profiled, it was possible to predict its judgments and judgments, as long as the political camp that ruled could anticipate them, everything was well. Now that it's different, there's a problem. But that's one thread. [[Yeah, yeah!]] The second concerns the Constitution. This discussion of the reception organised on the occasion of the anniversary of the Constitutional Tribunal seems to have gone in the wrong direction. 'Cause you gotta bring up the art. 191 constitutions and he will show you what the problem really is. Well, I would like to remind you that according to the wording of the article. Article 191 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (3) with a request in the matters referred to in Article. 188, the Constitutional Tribunal may apply, inter alia. bodies constituting local government units. What's it like now? It's a relationship. [[Standing.]] Such a relationship of the Gdansk government, here discussed, with the Constitutional Tribunal... And if there is such a situation that the City Council of Gdansk will address the Court with a case that will be resolved, how will it be treated? Please, Mr. Senator and the High Senate, think about this case because she's very serious. This is a very serious problem. It's not a matter of dinner. This is indeed a constitutional issue, very serious. [[But he can only file a motion.]] [[Mr. Senator, let us speak calmly.]] Mr. Senator, well, she's gonna file a motion and expect a favorable settlement. Once again, I must return briefly to an issue which was the subject of a completely inappropriate charge against the government, the Law and Justice, that the Sejm dared to change the government's bill. Please do not deny the Lower House of Parliament, the Sejm's right to make laws. Otherwise, the government would be issuing regulations by law. However, this is a law of the Sejm. The Sejm has the right to change the government's submission and changed it to a few points, as we discussed. Don't be surprised, don't deny the Sejm that right, because that would be challenging certain very important rules of the system. This cannot be accepted, and neither the government nor the Sejm should explain itself, because this is a natural situation. I don't want to go into any other threads anymore because it's late, but at the end of the day, I want to say that by listening very carefully to all the speeches, especially the left side of the Senate Hall, I was convinced I think that if someone from the outside, if Poles listened to this debate or read it, they may share or share my conviction, which was strengthened during listening to the discussion that this law is very much needed. The longer I listened to what you said, the more I became convinced that this was a really important step, perhaps even a more desirable and more important step than it seemed before this debate. The defence of the right to mismanagement in local governments, which sounded in this attack on the economic criterion, shows what is really going on here. Really consider whether it's worth it. This is not an attempt on self-government, this is a law which is supposed to be an important instrument in strengthening the integrity, economy of local governments, that is, what citizens expect, what we all expect from public institutions, also from local governments. In this discussion, using such arguments, you will not gain public support, I am convinced of that. Society expects honesty in local governments, honesty everywhere, but here we are talking about local governments. The economy is honesty. That's why I'm really glad that I was able to stand before the High Senate today, present this bill and defend its records. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u206	Thank you, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'm asking the Secretary to present the announcements.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u207	High Senate! The joint meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the examination of applications submitted at the 40th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act on Regional Audit Chambers and certain other laws, Senate printing No 528, will take place tomorrow, 22 June, at 8.15 p.m. in room 217. And the second message. The joint meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment on the examination of the proposals submitted during the plenary debate to the Act amending the Law on the Specific Principles for the Preparation for Investment in Flood Structures will take place tomorrow, 22 June, at 8.15 a.m. in Room 176. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-senat-43-1.u208	Thank you. I declare the Senate adjourned. The meeting will resume tomorrow at 9 a.m. [[Meeting adjourned at 19 minutes 58]]
