ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u1	Resume session. I would like to call Elizabeth Borovska and Arkadiusz Marchewka to the secretaries of today's proceedings. Protocol and list of speakers will be led by Arkadiusz Carrot. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: Information from the Minister of Health about the basic system of hospital health insurance. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr. Piotr Gryza for information.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u2	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! High Seym! The draft law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds introducing a system of basic hospital care provision, briefly referred to as the insurance system, was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 21 February 2017. The main objective of the project is to improve patients' access to specialist services, in particular by ensuring the complexity and coordination of outpatient, hospital and rehabilitation activities. The need to develop this project is due to the diagnosis of the current system of contracting services in which a number of functions have been identified, including in particular the following: the almost unlimited possibility for medicinal entities to apply for health care contracts with the National Health Fund, while concluding from about 5 years of contracts in a system not based on competitive procedures but on the annexation of contracts; periodic competition procedures concerning distinct benefits and their clearing systems, promoting fragmentation of the provision of benefits; the promotion by the existing model of contracting the provider's structure in the system, as well as their internal organisational structure on the basis of competitive products, clearing constructed by the payer of benefits, but not based on health needs; the continued uncertainty on the part of hospitals regarding future conditions for financing their activities, hindering rational investment and long-term staffing policies and causing waste of resources; the limited possibility of transfers of funds between the amounts of contracts hindering the rational management of multi-branch hospitals as a whole, which contributes to the emergence of over-performance in certain areas and the absence of other areas; the functioning model of billing to create pressures on the efficiency of benefits, which would lead to more or more complex cases of care. The proposed law will eliminate these dysfunctions by introducing the following solutions: moving away from the principle of unlimited application for a contract for the establishment of a stable network of providers, covering six levels of protection, to guarantee patients basic access to healthcare services provided in hospitals; introducing for a significant proportion of healthcare services cleared under a system of collateral in place of a fee-for-flat-rate form of financing; financing under a single contract of a system of protection in addition to hospital care services, including outpatient specialised care provided in hospital clinics, medical rehabilitation in fixed or day-to-day, night-to-day and holiday healthcare, and introducing a common clearing system in the framework of a contract of a security system covering hospital and outpatient care provided in hospital clinics. The changes introduced by this bill, in addition to the general order of the hospital sector, will bring real benefits in terms of: improving coordination and continuity of patient care, more rational resource management in terms of healthcare, improving the financial stability of hospitals and thus improving the conditions for investing in their development, and finally adapting the internal structure of medicinal entities to current health needs. The planned system to secure benefits in the hospital sector is also largely a response to the conclusions of health maps. These documents indicate, among other things, that there are branches in which a significant proportion of the benefits shown, sometimes more than 90%, can be reported in general surgery or internal diseases, and that these branches sometimes have a long waiting period for admission. It is therefore necessary to increase the flexibility of managing the funds at the level of the provider, allowing for the transfer of funds between ranges. It should also be possible to manage resources flexibly between outpatient care and hospital care. Within the framework of the security system, six security levels will be identified: level of first-degree hospitals, level of second-degree hospitals, level of third-degree hospitals, level of oncology and pulmonology hospitals, level of paediatric hospitals, level of nationwide hospitals. These levels are defined by an indication of hospital treatment profiles performed in hospitalization mode that characterize them. The separation of the above mentioned levels reflects, in the case of the first three levels, the gradation in terms of the number and degree of implementation of the profiles. On the other hand, two further levels were distinguished due to the specific characteristics of the benefits which they are dedicated to. On the other hand, the separation of the nationwide level serves to recognise a particular role in the health care system of clinical hospitals and institutes and some other hospitals created by ministers. The entities eligible for the guarantee scheme, in respect of the scope and types of benefits covered by such a qualification, will be guaranteed the possibility of concluding contracts with the National Health Fund, excluding the competition procedure. The calculation of the costs of healthcare provided on the basis of contracts concluded under the insurance scheme will take place in two forms: payments for services provided, covering more than 1/3 of the value of hospital care benefits, and a lump sum covering approximately 2/3 of the value of benefits. Flat-rate settlement will under no circumstances mean a simple budgeting of hospitals. The system of recording the hospital's activities by the payer will be fully maintained, in particular with the use of a tool such as homogeneous patient groups. The amount of the lump sum provided for the following settlement period will depend on the scope of the benefits provided and reported in the preceding period. The settlement period under the draft law may not be longer than one year. At the time of implementation of the system, the settlement period will be shorter: quarterly or semi-annual. The basic rules for fixing the lump sum are laid down directly in the proposed law. In accordance with the draft law on lump sum, the following will be decided: the amount of the funds planned to finance lump sum benefits, as set out in the plan for the purchase of health care benefits of the voivodship branch of the National Health Fund, as well as the data on healthcare benefits granted and reported for the previous reference period, financed in lump sum terms, in terms of the number and type of benefits granted, the prices of benefits granted, the quality parameters associated with the process of granting those benefits, and the parameters relating to the ratio of the number of healthcare benefits made and reported by the provider during previous accounting periods, corresponding to the increase or decrease in the number of those benefits. The regulations of the Minister for Health shall lay down detailed rules for the fixing of lump sums, including in particular for the first period of operation of the security system, for the first reference period. In addition to flat-rate financing, as has already been mentioned, funds will be set aside to finance certain healthcare services for which flat-rate financing would not be an optimal solution. The list of these benefits will be determined by a regulation of the Minister of Health. It is expected to include inter alia. items such as diagnostics and oncology treatment on the basis of oncology diagnosis cards, highly specialised services, delivery benefits, hip or knee replacements, cataract surgery, chemotherapy, radiotherapy, medication programs, coordinated care and a number of others. The eligibility criteria for the collateral scheme are set out in the proposed law and will be partly clarified at the level of the proposed implementing regulation. The basic criteria laid down in the draft law are: having at the date of qualification for the health care insurance system in force for at least the last 2 calendar years on the provision of hospital benefits, i.e. acute treatment, the provision of hospital emergency services or reception rooms on the basis of a contract in force for at least the last 2 calendar years in respect of the levels of hospitals in steps I, II and III and paediatric level, the provision of anaesthesia and intensive therapy in accordance with the contract in force for at least the last 2 calendar years in respect of hospitals in steps II and III, the provision of benefits under the minimum number of profiles specified for the level of the security system concerned. On the basis of precise criteria, which do not leave room for discretion, the directors of the voivodships of the National Health Fund will draw up lists of healthcare providers qualified for the security system, indicating the level of collateral and all the categories and types of benefits that the hospital will be able to provide under the security system. The first lists should be published by 27 June and the deadline should run until 26 September for the merged entities. On the other hand, the list will start on 1 October 2017. The draft law also provides for a specific qualification procedure, which should only be applied in exceptional situations. In the case of hospitals which are particularly important for the proper functioning of the system and for securing access to healthcare services, which have an agreement with the National Health Fund for hospitalisation, while the director of the Regional Department of the National Health Fund will be able to indicate such a hospital to the security system despite failing to meet all the criteria after obtaining a favourable opinion from the Minister of Health. It should be stressed that, while the system of protection is a dominant form of ensuring access to hospital healthcare services in an acute manner, this does not in any case mean the total replacement by that system of the current model of contracting health care services on the basis of competitions, offers or negotiations to be maintained. Not qualifying a hospital as a security system does not mean that it will be deprived of the possibility of providing benefits under a contract with the National Health Fund. The Director of the Regional Branch of the Fund will continue to announce procedures for the conclusion of health care contracts, taking into account the health needs of the area on the basis of a plan for the purchase of benefits. The director of the voivodship branch of the National Health Fund, on the basis of a comparison of the plan for the purchase of health benefits with the list of health benefits to be performed by healthcare providers under the insurance scheme, will conduct health care offers contests in respect of which the health needs of the voivodship will not be properly met. The introduction of a system for contracting and securing hospital benefits in accordance with the principles set out above should contribute to improving the efficiency of the health system and, as should be seen as the most important objective of these changes, to providing patients with comprehensive health care and to increasing adequate access to health services. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u3	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tomasz Latos will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u4	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I'll start by congratulating and thanking the Minister. Minister, this, first of all... [[Mr Beat Małecka-Libera: Congratulations to Donald Tusk.]] I would ask my esteemed colleagues from the opposition not to comment. You'll have a chance to speak up in a moment. Minister, it's a very difficult bill, it's true, it's difficult, but it's also expected. [[By who?]] Since the opposition is speaking here, it is important to recall - you dreamed of introducing this law. You wanted to go back to that concept every year. There was no determination, no courage, no idea, no idea, it's you, I hope, from this speaker later you'll tell me what you lacked... [[Get down on the ground.]] ...that you decided not to enter the networks. And you should bring it in even for a simple organizational reason. Contracting health services, in a situation where there are multiple entities, where there are no objective criteria, where the quality has not been examined at last, because the National Health Fund, I remind you, assessed whether the number of staff employed is correct or whether the equipment agrees, was actually the main criterion and then the price offered - in a situation of lack of quality there was some chaos in the system. Chaos, for example, that we have dozens of entities that are extremely important to the system, which are probably very important procedures, but several-bed entities, which, of course, can afford to offer a price lower than in a large hospital, not even talking about a university hospital or a clinical hospital, but at least about a large county hospital. Here it was choosing raisins from the cake and weakening these large public hospitals. You guys knew about this problem, you were annexing contracts because it was such a prosthetic. You can ask: How long can you be attached? We have been annexing it for three years, it would probably be possible for another year, and probably for a transitional period we will partially annex it, but it cannot be done indefinitely, my dear Minister, Mr President. Therefore, it was necessary to make a decision - either contracting or annexing or going the other way... [[Member Beat Małecka-Libera: Or revolution.]] ...to support the most important ones for the patient's system and safety. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I think that's why. maps of health needs have been created to prepare for the introduction of the network. We've talked about this many times in committee meetings... [[Come on.]] ...the state began to implement it, too late, because in the 8th year of rule and rule. Law and Justice have completed the preparation of maps and now we need to be consistent, we need to introduce a network of hospitals. Of course, it is possible to discuss, I agree, whether these maps are in the final shape, whether further adjustments are needed yet. Probably they are needed, probably there is something to talk about, you probably need to develop various kinds of medical specialties in a given region. By the way, it is necessary to provide for the needs of the number of residents in such or other specialties, because this is also missing in the past. In a word, we've had chaos so far. I do not want to say out of sympathy for an important initiative, I do not want to say: do what you want in the health system, but to a large extent it looked like that. And what is it like in the world, ladies and gentlemen? Well, there is no system in the world so that everyone can do what they want, and you know it. I understand that you wanted to change that, and I understand that there is no time, eight years that may be too short a time to face such a challenge. One way or another, of course, it cannot be that there are more new players, they compete for the same patient, they take out contracts, public money. Even with the most established liberal views, countries do not apply such principles. Therefore, the construction of the network, what is most important from the point of view of the patient in terms of its security, thus, of course, the basis. SORs, emergency rooms. The first of the untruths that are constantly served to patients should be calmed down immediately, and the first of the untruths should be denied, and the media is still spoken in all kinds of media, and the healthcare providers are still scared. In my opinion, he is consciously frightened because I do not suspect those people who are talking about it, about not reading the bill, about ignorance of even such basic principles. After all, those entities which will not be online will be subject to a normal competition procedure, which has been taking place since 1999, first under the name of the health fund, then the National Health Fund. Nothing's gonna change around here. In other words, all those who were nervous because they were probably nervous about what their contract would look like after the next contest procedure, would have exactly the same stress and would bear the same risk that they would lose something or gain something in the contest procedure that would take place after the launch of the network. Therefore, fear of cocks, there is no such danger here. Of course, it is not - as with any new large bill - that you can sleep peacefully, and perhaps Minister Gryza and Minister Radziwiłł will have many unsleepy nights, because every change, the fundamental change in the system involves various types of turbulence, possibly with increased risks. But that's what power is for, and that's what it's possible to react quickly to, to correct and change these possible threats, and that's what I urge you to do. I urge you to have a substantive discussion. We talked on the committee two weeks ago, we talked this week, we're still gonna talk at second reading. Let's focus on this, which may be sealing in this system, which may move from flat-rate to contracting - oh, here, in my opinion, is really the most room for discussion. What this will give the patient is a question that is probably repeated most often. Of course, this could be a long story, but it seems that the focus should be on three basic elements, simple and understandable for the patient. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we've all been watching this, everyone who was a patient. The patient was hospitalized, treated, often effectively, effectively, and then discharged with referral to a specialist and perhaps with the exception of some first visit he was still left to himself. Well, there will be coordinated care in this system. There will be no longer a situation where the patient leaves the hospital and now it is his problems and possibly his family doctor, where and when he will go to a specialist. Now, after a few months of waiting in the queue, he went back to the hospital as a result of further complications, because unfortunately this was how it worked out in practice. The second element, undoubtedly important, is that based on JGP, i.e. uniform patient groups, a patient who had several disease units, was accounted for... The paycheck paid for one sick unit. Yes, he could have been treated from the others, but before he had to be discharged from the hospital, he had to be admitted no earlier than two weeks after the National Health Fund had seen it as a new medical benefit, and then he could be treated further. Now, ladies and gentlemen, you will be able to treat him comprehensively, you will be able to send him from the ward to the ward, from the clinic to the clinic and as part of a lump sum. [[Member Beat Małecka-Libera: Now you couldn't? Doctor, Mr...]] Now, of course you can, but there's a clearing problem. Madam Minister, there is a problem with accounting. Unfortunately, this problem has not been eliminated. There were some shy attempts to reduce that risk, a little reduced... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But on the subject, about the network of hospitals.]] I talk all the time about the hospital network and the benefits. I wish you'd read the bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And finally night, Christmas...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u5	Thank you very much, sir. Mr President, you have run out of time. Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u6	Good. Nightly Christmas aid - here too we will solve a problem which unfortunately still existed on the market...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u7	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u8	Those clogged emergency rooms and paying elsewhere. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u9	I'll follow the timeline. Thank you very much. Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear patients, the PiS has decided to improve your life, you will be able to move from ward to ward - finally. Mr Latos, you don't charge so much with these statements, because maybe you'll be picking up all this mess because Radziwiłł can't take it politically. Perhaps you'll have to make the scattered blocks of this bill... [[So I'm gonna ask you, will you help me?]] ...so I would suggest a distance towards this law, just as Mr Sosnierz holds the right distance. Sosnierz keeps his distance from this bill because Sosnierz knows about the system, he managed and built it, and he knows perfectly well that this bill will simply overturn the system. Before I begin to discuss substantively with you, I also wanted to draw attention to one more thing. The key law, at least in the mouth of Minister Radziwiłł, is the key law, and where is the minister? [[Applause]] [[Exactly!]] What right? What are these rules? We are discussing a key change in the health system, the future of 38 million patients and the minister is gone. He sends, with all due respect, a deputy minister who is a technical contractor for his orders. Maybe he didn't have time. The history of Minister Radziwiłł, I do not know if you remember, begins in 2015. On November 16, he was appointed Minister of Health. [[But about hospitals, not Minister Radziwielła.]] As if you could calmly... You know, we're talking about hospitals, which could be important in the future. [[...there must be a patient's welfare!]] Don't yell, calm down. Mr. Marshal, you're gonna calm this crew down on the right.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u11	Madam, please do not disturb the Member's speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u12	Minister Radziwiłł started his journey on 16 November 2015 and already on 21 November, dear state, took part in the Vatican International Conference of the Papal Council for. The Ministry of Health. And that's what's left of him. If you have to deal with in vitro - from hand, there is no in vitro, you need ellaOne on prescription - from hand, you need to tighten up the abortion - go ahead. But the hospital network -- there's no minister, there's no courage to look, because he knows he's prepared a booze. [[Applause]] But with you guys, it's gonna have to be like this. You talk peasantly and in plain language, because you don't really understand it at all. You're making a network of hospitals to get some hospitals on that network. It's logical, all hospitals won't go online, isn't it? They won't come in. So if all the hospitals don't go online, are these hospitals going to be more or less online? It's gonna be less. But in your opinion, then the availability will be greater. This is PiS-owska, twisted nature, [[Applause]] there is no way to understand how fewer hospitals will be more accessible. [[The rest are in the contract.]] You don't even know which hospitals are gonna go in there and which ones aren't gonna get in, and that's the weirdest thing. Because that actually does not know 38 million Poles, which hospitals will be online and which will not, it is natural, because the law is so written that it is difficult to grasp in all this. But he doesn't know it himself. But the director of the Silesian health fund said it. Listen up, because on March 6th, the director of the NFZ, appointed by Minister Radziwiłł to this position, designated as the man who is to implement these laws, said that 69 hospitals will enter the network in Silesia and 72 of them will not enter. I understand that if 72 hospitals in Silesia do not enter the network, the availability for patients will be greater. You're the only ones who can come up with that. Well, there's no other one in the world... And that's why Sosnierz is cutting you off. What's he gonna do? He has to say it's stupid. He did the same thing to Gowin, but you guys got together on TV to say it's okay. Gowin also knows what it smells like. Because Gowin was in government, and he knows how to manage the state, and you don't know that, and you blindly trust Radziwill, and the worst part is that he doesn't know how to manage it either. [[Applause]] You introduce the principle of budget financing for hospitals, which is the principle: whether you stand or lie, a million zlotys are due. That's what happened in the Polish People's Republic. You guys over there. That's how it pulls! You have such a PRL nature, it's a clean commune. [[Who's talking?]] If the hospital needs to seek a patient and a procedure today, it is trying to perform a lot of these procedures. Better, worse, but he's trying to treat these patients. And ye say, Thou hast a million gold, and yet. Then who's he gonna treat? He's gonna treat these patients with the lightest diseases and keep them in the hospital. And he's gonna set the queues, because he's gonna send the rest of them back to the voivodship hospitals who are gonna be suffocating these patients, and they're not gonna want to take them either. That's what's gonna happen. That's not enough: you're taking out the night's medical attention. That's a crazy idea! Which means the E.R. or the E.R. is gonna end up in the hospital. There's gonna be a kid with diarrhea, a kid with the flu, a man with a stroke, a man with a heart attack, and a car accident. Everybody to the E.R.! It's so... I already said it today: you really have the nature of a caveman, such jabadab and everyone in the forest! [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] This is no way to rule the state. [[Applause]] And one last thing. Ladies and gentlemen, you are not taking what is in the hospitals today very seriously. There are hundreds of millions of zlotys invested in modern equipment: modern tomography, resonance imaging, simulators. There is a lot of this in Polish hospitals. And now a hospital that doesn't go online will just have to pay back that money. Have you considered what you're doing? [[He's gonna have a contract like this.]] [[Yeah, right!]] In every hospital we have a European investment, in practically everyone, and you in Silesia throw 72 hospitals out of the network, you say that availability will be greater, patients will have better, because hospitals will be less, and in addition they will give away European money. You're the only ones who can come up with that. Ladies and gentlemen! The bill is dangerous for patients. This law is actually called the Hospital Network Act. It's not a network of hospitals, it's a web. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u13	Thank you. The rest of the time will be used by Beata Małecka-Libera, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u14	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I would like you to agree on your positions, because yesterday in Katowice, Minister Radziwiłł said that this is a very minor correction and does not change it at all, even 180°. [[Then why?]] Today, the Member says that this is not an easy law and that this is a fundamental change of the system. So what's it like, Minister? Answer me. Second thing. Minister, I am convinced that you are aware that you are taking on a great deal of responsibility for the chaos that there will be hospitals online and off the grid, that there will be hospitals that will have funding, and hospitals that will not have it, that hospitals will be connected wildly, just to get into this network. There's an oncology linking up with a railway hospital - some total paranoia is at the moment. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Yeah, yeah, that's the idea, too. And what does a patient do in all this? He doesn't even know how to find himself in all this. He's being treated in hospitals right now, waiting in his queues, and all of a sudden, these hospitals are disappearing. [[It's great.]] When I was preparing for this, I looked at all the models of the healthcare system that work in the world. There is no such system or model as you propose. Maybe it's a new model, again model a la Radziwiłł, just like there's a piece of Radvilovka. Only that the basis for this is absolutely non-innovative and non-modern, because if you want to make a new model, first of all pay attention to the quality of medical services, efficiency and finally epidemiology, because without this absolutely these maps that we started to build have no basis or meaning. The quality and availability of patient services is the most important for him, so let's start talking about quality, let's start talking about those parameters on which the foundations of this law should be based. And then there will be full consent, because that's the quality and the kind of hospitals that we want most of all. Efficiency. If we're not talking about efficiency here, we're really talking about waste. It must be made clear: if they are in hospital on a flat-rate basis, the patient becomes a cost, Minister. And no hospital is gonna have to take more patients, because why? He's gonna have a lump sum, and he's not gonna have any motivation. Epidemiology. In the case of responsibility for 50% of all deaths are cardiovascular diseases: heart attacks, strokes. And what does it turn out to be? Cardiovascular hospitals are off the grid. Why? Because they're mostly private, they're private. And it hurts the most. Come on, demography. At the moment, 1.5 million people are older people who need treatment right now. Geriatric hospitals are off the grid. Where's the logic here? Where is the patient's access to such services here? We talked at the committee meeting about leading issues, but there are also a lot of small things. Why, for example? Can't hospitals enter the network, including public hospitals, who haven't had a contract in the last two years? After all, they have indebted themselves, provided medical services, and now it turns out that the barrier to transition is just the fact that they did not have a contract with the National Health Fund. We have talked in committee about these problems many times. Here you say you are willing to dialogue and change. Where are these changes if you did not want to accept any substantive opinion on this subject? This is a bad bill. It is a law that will make accessibility worse for patients, which creates chaos not only for patients, but also for health professionals. Anyway, all the experts, the doctors were talking, saying it was a bad idea. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Kozłowski will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u16	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Law and Justice claims that as a result of the rule of the Civic Platform, the Polish health system has become on the brink of the abyss, but the solutions that the Ministry of Health plans to introduce will be a big step forward into the abyss. Changing the rules for financing hospital treatment from contract to lump sum will be a revolution and will end up a disaster for the whole system. Unfortunately, every revolution requires sacrifices. I am very concerned that patients will be the victims in this case. Law and Justice may have made a correct diagnosis. The current model of contracting and clearing health care benefits certainly has many disadvantages, but the treatment of them by changing the method of funding from contract to lump sum will not have the expected effects. Let me remind you that one of the chief ethical principles in medicine is: first of all, do not harm. The Ministry of Health forgot about that. The budget funding system is very convenient and friendly, but for hospitals that are obviously online. They'll be privileged to be on the other side of the patient. Currently, the money goes after the patient, and with the flat-rate hospital funding, the patient becomes simply a cost. It is highly likely that patients whose treatment is expensive will be treated like a hot potato will bounce from hospital to hospital. The proposed system does not motivate to improve the quality of services. The Ministry of Health claims that the introduction of a basic hospital health insurance system will make it easier for patients to access specialist doctors. Therefore, the question immediately arises as to whether the introduction of a network of hospitals will result in an increase in the number of specialists. Of course, that's impossible. Not much, there is a serious risk that their numbers will decrease. Shortening the waiting time of patients to visit a specialist doctor can only be solved in one way: you simply need to increase the number of specialists. Poland is the last in the European Union in terms of the number of doctors per thousand. residents. Not much, we have the highest average age of specialist doctors in Europe. We all know the reasons for this. Doctors are going abroad. Why? It's just the terms. The state has an outrageous policy regarding the granting of residency permits for specialization. There's less residency than doctors graduating. A young doctor has a problem with getting a doctor's specialty. Not much, these doctors' wages are lower than the national average, and the intern's doctor earns less than the cashier. These are the reasons for the emigration of Polish doctors. And now look at this economically. As a society, we spend a great deal of money every year on training doctors in our education system. Those doctors who are educated for our money are not realized in Poland, they are going abroad for very prosaic reasons. Why can't a doctor graduating an intern get an appointment because that's the truth, that's the right word, a resident? They're asking me for help from young doctors to help them. Turns out we're bounced off the wall. You can't get a residency in the field of ophthalmology in Wrocław because there are no more seats. Do you have any policy of estimating how many residents are needed in a particular specialisation? Turns out it's not. If we do not stop young people in general medicine in Poland, we will continue to struggle with what we are dealing with, i.e. with a small number of specialists. No reform will change that. We can make some networks, and the doctors won't come, the queues won't decrease. Access to these facilities will become increasingly difficult because hospital facilities will now be afraid of the patient, especially one whose treatment is very expensive. It's obvious. Do not expect any ethical rules to be followed by hospital directors, because the economy will keep them under the hierarchy and they will have to choose a less expensive patient. Those most expensive patients will be, as I said before, treated like a hot potato. And now let's take a look at this from the patient's position. Right now, I want to put myself in that position. The current system is actually bad. I've been through this myself, and I know what it's like to work in the E.R., and then there's the situation about the so-called. post-op care. And I don't blame the doctor who was on duty. Turns out he practically worked as a surgeon from Thursday to Sunday, and then he had to run to the E.R. to take patients in a giant line. Why? Because there was one, one 100-thousand-dollar specialist in the city. They're absurd, aren't they? There are no doctors. If, after this new reform, a patient finds himself in such a situation that he will not be followed by money, that is, he will not become, say, financially motivated by a factor for the hospital and will become a cost, then his position will weaken. This bill is just anti-patient. Here I agree with Mr Sosnierz, and I support that opinion. It's the anti-patient bill, the queues won't decrease. Now, here's the thing about money. You don't have to look far. As far as spending money on health from the state budget is concerned, it is not just the money resulting from GDP, looking at the financing side of public spending. It also includes money spent from our private pockets for private treatment. Your reform will increase the spending on health care from patients' money. Of course, right now. Total GDP allocated to healthcare will increase, but at the expense of the patient. Do not expect your networks of hospitals in public funding to give patients, not customers, any benefit that they will be able to heal more easily. It's just impossible. Let me put it this way: apart from the things I've mentioned right now, there are a few surprising things for me. Why are you reducing access to invasive cardiology services? I just don't get it. This is one, if not the main cause of death in Poland. I also don't understand why the idea of discretion in accepting the level of reference by a minister or a voivode should be implemented in this sense at all. Does this involve the possibility of political pressure? 'Cause that's the kind of question I'm gonna ask right now. I also do not understand a certain discretionary - for example, without giving any reasons - financing outside the flat-rate isolated procedures, e.g. the recently mentioned snail implant. These are things that cause concern because there is no transparency, no transparency. From the point of view of being qualified for the network, the issue of funding, this is incomprehensible to me. If your ideas, which are to bring, in your opinion, the benefits of Polish patients, would make sense, make sense, then there must be more money to finance this health service. Without increasing spending on general health care, your reform will not change anything. Regulation is doomed to failure, as without increased expenditure on health care It's just not gonna work. Let's imagine it this way. If we want to renovate the apartment, and instead of buying paint... [[Brush.]] ...buying anything, moving the furniture, because that's what it looks like, it's not necessarily the layout that you guys make after you move the furniture, and then it'll work for you. You're gonna wake up in a situation where what you're gonna change is gonna stop working for you. You name the minister, maybe there'll be a new minister -- I'd expect that, by the way -- who's gonna start to sort things out, because you guys are gonna throw something into space that's gonna be better. Why can we not face the need to change the current system, which is not a lump sum but a contract, to improve tariffs, to correct errors where they are, and not just throw everything upside down? 'Cause that's all they're gonna lose patients on. There will be no increase in the number of doctors in Poland and yet you will be motivated, in a negative way, by young people to go to the country across the western border, where for a good day they ask the young doctor: and what kind of residency do you want, and the young doctor after college does not get less than 2 000. PLN, only - in terms of ours - 12 thousand. zł. How do you want to keep young people in Poland and give them a chance? [[♪ The bell ♪]] for better health care for patients? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u17	Thank you. Mr Marek Ruciński will now speak on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u18	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The health system is faced with many problems due to long-standing negligence by successive governments. These problems require important and difficult reforms. One of them was to amend the Law on public-funded healthcare provision introducing a system of basic hospital health care insurance, i.e. the so-called. a network of hospitals. However, Minister Radziwiłł's proposal, despite its legitimate assumptions as it stands, is unacceptable. Firstly, it should be made clear that it is necessary to fulfil jointly the conditions laid down in the draft qualifying for the so-called conditions. the networks clearly eliminate a number of public hospitals, in particular those which are very important for patients in mono-specialist hospitals. Scientific and technological progress has made these hospitals more important to patients in recent years than in the past, but they have also gained basic status. As such, they should not have limited access to a system that even has a basic system in its name. Wider access to monospecialist hospitals in so-called. the network is therefore one of the fundamental conditions for its creation. Another issue requiring decisive correction is the open discrimination against non-public hospitals, which are de facto deprived of the possibility of qualifying them as so-called. networks. This does not change in any way the fact that the eligibility criteria for healthcare providers do not refer to the ownership structure of medicinal products. For example, the condition for the provision of health care services in a hospital emergency unit or emergency room under a contract of at least 2 years will be difficult for most private entities that had such an agreement at all, and, clearly, impossible for that part of them to apply for a contract with the NFZ for the first time. In addition, it should be noted that the percentage of public money available under the competition procedure is, firstly, negligible and, secondly, not exclusively for private hospitals. However, according to publicly available data, the total value of contracts for treatment in non-public hospitals in Poland in 2015 amounted to nearly PLN 6.3 billion. Moreover, only about 19% of them did not have a signed contract with the NFZ for hospital treatment. Following the comments made in the public consultation, assuming that the private hospital sector only implemented about 6% the budget of the NFZ for hospital treatment, can be assumed to have been up to 10% hospital benefits. You can also not forget that nearly 90% the revenues of private hospitals are generated by the contract with the NFZ. This contract is therefore absolutely crucial for their functioning. Projectors should also consider that a large proportion of the population that pays health insurance is opting for private facilities in view of the better availability of services. Thus, we cannot accept a project that basically disables access to the network to non-public entities. Our important concerns are also raised by the existing extraordinary procedure for eligibility to the hospital network, i.e. qualification based on the discretionary decision of the Minister of Health. In addition, the idea of flat-rate financing for hospitals, which will be included in the so-called. networks will undoubtedly reduce the level of investment in these facilities, which will find its consequences, among others. in reducing the quality of their services. In conclusion, it should be strongly emphasised that the risk of losing a contract, I stress, the risk of losing a contract, with the National Health Fund by public and non-public hospitals will entail far-reaching consequences in the form of a limitation or even termination of their activities. This in turn will result in patients losing their right to public health funding, guaranteed by the Constitution. Consequently, this could lead to the collapse of the whole health system. Thus, the project for the establishment of the so-called. The hospital network proposed by the Minister is unacceptable to us. However, the state-of-the-art declares its willingness to cooperate in creating another project for this important and necessary reform, with the hope that it will take into account all the doubts raised above. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u19	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Modern Club, you will speak with Marek Owl. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As my previous speaker said, the draft law on hospital networks limits the constitutional right of every citizen to health care, divides hospitals for better and worse, for those who will have access to public funds, and those who remain unfunded change the key principle that money should follow the patient rather than the patient for money. Draft law from the very beginning, i.e. Since September Ub. When it was first submitted to the public consultation, there was great concern and strong opposition from many communities. Self-governments, medical and economic environments have spoken many times and have almost always been very critical statements, clearly providing for the negative effects of the law. Despite the passage of many months around the reform, there is still complete misinformation, uncertainty among patients, healthcare providers and other participants in the health system. The changes proposed by these environments have not been taken into account in the current version of the project. This could best be summarised in the words of Minister Gowin, who said: one thing is certain - this law will certainly not improve the availability of health services. Of course, the delay in the date of entry into force of this law by 3 months offers some opportunities, especially for the public sector, to make some adjustments. The government got three months more to take preventive action, they could connect the hospitals. But is that what this is all about? Would that improve access to medical services? Is one hospital to be subject to the other's interests? That's not what this is supposed to be about. A very important element, today I think even, crucial, is the impact on the private sector. The majority of non-public establishments will remain outside the hospital network. They will be deprived of access to public funding. It's gonna happen pretty much overnight. If you read the opinion of BAS, you would know exactly that such effects are foreseen there. As a result of the new, completely unpredictable situation, individuals who have been operating for years can be excluded from the market and left unattended patients. This will undermine the confidence of investors in the state, investors who have supported the health sector over the years, improving the quality of services and their availability, thereby increasing health security. And it wasn't just in the private sector. The public sector, all local authorities have made many investments to ensure that the quality of services in the public sector is at the same level. The law significantly increases the role of the voivode. Members of the state of the art have asked each of the voivods to provide information on which health care units will be included in the hospital network and which will remain outside the network. Only the Silesian voivode replied, but this is a false answer: do not be afraid, everything will be fine, it is written in the bill and will be in accordance with the law. He didn't say 73 outposts would stay off the grid. I also look forward to the reply of the Małopolska Voivodeship, because we know from information from the National Health Fund that 34 out of 67 institutions will remain off the grid. This information is necessary, we must receive it before the work on this law is completed. We must, the patient, the healthcare provider, all of us need to know what the effects of this law will have. You are launching an operation that affects all Poles, hundreds of thousands of people employed in the health sector, owners of these units, billions of zlotys invested in the health sector. And you won't have time to prepare for the entry into force of this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish will now speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Hospital Network Act is not a health care reform, it is not a cure for the problems of the Polish health system. It is a dangerous experiment on a living organism, it is a dangerous experiment on patients, doctors, nurses, it is a dangerous experiment on the Polish health system. There is no Minister Radziwill, not for the first time. He wasn't at earlier committee meetings. When he came to the committee meeting, he was more political than the minister, certainly not an expert. He didn't even answer the questions of the medical community he came from, the medical chamber he was president of for many years. He's not here today either. This bill is so enthusiasticly defended by President Latos. Thank God you have him at your club, because at least someone has some enthusiasm for this bill, someone with energy comes up and tries to defend it, because somewhere else, it's hard. She wasn't in the government, because if the deputy prime minister of the government makes a separate statement, it's a big deal. And you can get along now, do a joint conference, but it still doesn't change the fact that after the Council of Ministers' work on one of the most important laws, when the Deputy Prime Minister of Government didn't support this law, it is devastating for such a law. It's just devastating. And not only does it not support it in the media space, but it does not support it in its official position at the Council of Ministers meeting. The opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office is also devastating - I encourage all parliamentarians to familiarize themselves with it - speaking about legal aspects, the certainty of the law, the sustainability of the law. 'Cause what does it turn out to be? That hospital supervisors, hospital managers, should have known two years ago that you had to have an E.R. contract to run for the hospital network today. This is a secret knowledge that the PiS didn't release two years ago. Today, on this basis, on the basis of inaccessible knowledge demands from various types of institutions, also social, very well rooted in Polish reality, what is very difficult to meet is required. There are a few general doubts. First of all, you say that it will be easier to move from branch to branch now, that all branches, and in fact all hospitals, will be financed by public funds. Then what's the point of this change anyway? If some of it's going to go online, the rest of it is going to win in the contest, then it's all going to stay the old-fashioned way. What's the catch? The truth is, not everyone wins the contest. I have examined almost 235 comments made to the Minister of Health. You answer every question: if a ward or a hospital doesn't get on the net, take off in a contest. So how much money will be in the contest that everyone who wants to take off, who's gonna have that kind of authority, is gonna take off, and what? Are they gonna win? They won't all win, and you know it. Tell me how many troops will be decommissioned. Tell me how many people - doctors, nurses, paramedics, physiotherapists, rehabilitators - will lose their jobs. Because the union wants to know if there's a cover program for employees being fired from different facilities. You're saying it'll be easier to move a patient between wards. But if there are 11 branches in the county hospital, and only five will have funding within the hospital network, the remaining six will have to be launched in the competition. This concerns very important branches for the district Poland, local Poland, e.g. a branch of neurology, which is quite common in county hospitals, and which is not listed as a first-degree facility, and to which the county hospitals will especially go. So what? Now there's a procedure that's not a perfect system, that's true. And it needs to be changed. But then the branches that will be in the hospital network will have to share their money with the troops that will lose in the competition, e.g. with neurology, because it's not known if this neurology is going to win. And once again, it's gonna be moving money from one branch to another. Will this cure Polish health care? What about doctors specializing in wards that will be eliminated? What about residents there today working or trainees who, as we have seen in the press articles today, earn criminally low compared to the minimum wage? The minimum wage has been raised, very well, but the salary of interns doctors has not been raised. We need to get ahold of them. Night and Christmas help. It is true that today, patients with ailments come to the emergency room or to the S.R. You say, let's do it all in one place, there will be an emergency room, an S.R., a clinic and a night clinic, and a Christmas aid. Only if the night and Christmas help, the E.R., the E.R. and the S.R. are supposed to serve one doctor, you're gonna drive these doctors to their death. They can't do this. And it creates a great danger for the quality of service, for the quality of decisions made, for the safety of patients. Because it seems even a rational idea, but will there be extra money for the equipment, for the local adaptation of medical facilities? Will there be extra money for employment? There's nothing in this bill about extra money. There's nothing about extending hospitals, there's nothing about supporting medical procedures. There is only a lot of chaos, because, Minister, it's actually very difficult to understand and decipher health experts. And what are those who are not prominent legislators supposed to say about the law on a daily basis? How are they supposed to decipher the chaos you're trying to bring in today? What about sustainability of EU projects? We are still asking a lot of questions about the quality of our health care activities. Quality has also been improved through European measures. Hospitals, especially local hospitals, carried out various programs, improved the quality of equipment, took funds from the Euriopean Union. Thank God they had the opportunity. I hope that no one will want Poland out of the European Union. [[Oh...]] And today they have to maintain the sustainability of the project for 5 years. How are you gonna shut down this branch because it's not gonna have funding from the network or from the competition, how's he gonna keep this big project going? We still ask a lot of questions in committees and meetings of all kinds. You have one answer regardless of the subject we're really dealing with. The answer is the same: 8 years, 8 years. However, this 8 years does not help in getting to the queue and shortening the queue after the endoprosthesis, does not help in speeding up the ophthalmologic surgery. Really, this rhetoric of yours is running low. She is favorable before the election or shortly after the election, but now, almost after two years in a moment, and then the bill will come in, she will not be your shield against the high levels of patients who will feel lost, because today they are waiting in line after the endoprothesis, maybe in a private hospital, maybe in a hospital run by a religious union, or maybe in a local hospital. The squad won't be online, they won't get the money from the contest. Where will they go? Which line are they gonna line up for? Is it gonna be faster? You were supposed to strengthen the Polish budget, you were supposed to seal the Polish budget often, and you were supposed to give money to public health services, public health services, because you so often define it. What's going on? It may end in that the patient who is waiting in line at the hospital, who today has funding from the NFZ, is a private, social, independent hospital, will stay in this queue, only the NFZ will not reimburse him for his treatment, but will pay out of his own pocket. The law on hospital networks poses a danger of draining the pockets of Polish patients. This is one of the main charges we have for this bill. What about monospecialized hospitals? What about rehabilitation? There are rehabilitation hospitals. I'm also talking about my family's Małopolska. They're not gonna be on the hospital network. Are they gonna win the contest? You're giving me that guarantee? If you're guaranteeing winning competitions today, why are you announcing competitions? Give everyone a lump sum and it'll be okay. You won't at least waste your time running the contest. I understand that we also want to support Polish doctors, but this law will induce us to go abroad and use European Union law to finance benefits also abroad. I understand that until yesterday the trip to the Czech Republic to the ophthalmologist was a strengthening of our Visegrad alliance, but after yesterday's vote you will no longer explain it. Something's got to be done here. [[Applause]] Finally, a request to Mr Arłukowicz not to praise Mr Sosnierz so much either. I agree with Sosnierz 100%. Well, thank you very much for that sentence, but if we're gonna praise you so much, we're gonna thank you, sir. We're gonna do more harm because you're gonna get teased at the PiS, and you're too decent a man to be teased. I hope you can convince some of your colleagues to reject this terrible bill that doesn't create a web or even a web. These are traps set for Polish health care, [[♪ The bell ♪]] for patients. I hope you guys fall into it yourself. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u23	Thank you. Ms Małgorzata Zwierzan will speak on behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Basic hospital health care insurance system, so-called The hospital network is very controversial. Different environments talk about what this network should look like and what it lacks. The anxiety not only of patients, but also of hospital directors increases information noise, which is intentionally fueled by media often providing misleading information. We learn from many programmes and publications that the patient will suffer, that he will not be able to exercise his basic right to health care, that the institutions will be less and will not serve all those in need. It is true that the proposed amendments need to be corrected during further work. However, I must stress that the current system and level of health care insurance leave much to be desired, and that is why changes are necessary. The project introduced, despite its complexity, is needed. If we correct its imperfections during further procession, it will undoubtedly be a well-run reform. [[Voice from the room: We're closing down now.]] My concern is that there will be no hospital in the network, among other things. the only geriatric hospital in the country in Katowice. [[Mr Beat Małecka-Libera: Really?]] We, together with other Members, sent an interrogation to the Minister in February on this matter, to which we have not yet received an answer. I consider it insufficient to ensure that establishments that are not on the network will be able to contract under existing rules in the framework of the competition. Because of the demographics of our society and the specifics of age-related diseases, I do not imagine that such an important medical facility for our seniors should not be included in the prepared list. However, I do not forget that the exact network of hospitals is not yet known. The work on the project is ongoing and I am convinced that the priority of the Ministry of Health is and will be the well-being of patients and their comfort during treatment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u25	Thank you very much. Janusz Sanocki, a non-attached Member, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're talking about health care problems. It is therefore appropriate to refer to the basic principle of the treatment of all diseases, namely finding the cause of the disease and not only the treatment of symptoms. I listened attentively and to the statements of the Minister's representative, and all of you. It is difficult not to get the impression that the Ministry is presenting a project which in no way relates to the cause of the health crisis. This crisis is due to many elements, among others. medical procedures are getting more expensive, and science is moving on. It's impossible to promise everyone that the state will cure everyone at any time for any money. We see on TV that people are raising money for surgery in the United States, abroad, which is a symptom of the failure of our health care, the lack of treatment here. Well, the cause of this disease - I think everyone knows that, but they're afraid to say it here - is that the decisions about where money should go in health care, how expenses should look, etc., are made by officials. It's the officials from the National Health Fund who decide where to conclude the contract. The Ministry is now presenting us with such a reform, in quotes, according to which they will not be officials from the National Health Fund and not as part of competitions, but the Ministry as part of budgeting. After all, it does not in any way affect this basic element, namely the lack of rationality, because, as I say, the reason is that it is officialization and total exclusion of the patient's decision. The patient should decide where to treat himself, what hospital, and hospitals should seek the patient. And whether or not the hospital will remain on the market should be decided by the market and the patient. And that's not even here, and it's not even in the proposals. Dear ladies and gentlemen, until we touch this cause and try it within the framework of the existing Constitution, the legal system, etc. We're just pretending we're trying to reform something. We pretend, and the tea from mixing doesn't get sweeter, we all know that. What's more, such an arbitrary decision that this hospital will stay, and that hospital will be fired, that's the decision. with extraordinary economic impact, because, as it has been said here, private entities have made a whole range of investments and now one decision We throw it all away, throw it overboard. I'm surprised that no one in the ruling party with the majority has analyzed the social and political consequences of such a decision, because you're really going somewhere on the mines, so to speak, I'm going to quote... It's an absolutely reprehensible decision. I suggest and I ask that all of us here agree first on how to get rid of it. or bypassing the cause somehow. I believe that it is absolutely necessary to shift, give the patient the opportunity to decide on the choice of treatment and, unfortunately, we will not miss the need to co-pay the patient for treatment. I think avoiding this subject is just self-deception. In the current form, this law will only cause chaos and mess and will not lead to improvement, but on the contrary, it will increase the crisis and chaos in health care. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u27	30 ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the question time - 1 minute. The first question is asked by Marian Zembala, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u28	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by thanking you - this is a good time and hopefully more so - for what the great orchestra and Jerzy Owsiak in the form of over 105 million zlotys brought this year and will bring to the Polish health system. With very little time, I want to say one thing. In every European country there is concern for hospitals existing - county, supra-region, voivodship and so-called. academically. I, ladies and gentlemen, am the guardian of these hospitals. When I was driving around Poland as part of a cycle of health Poles self portrait, I met... Mr. Marshal, one sentence. ...with each of the branch directors. I'd like to tell you that I'm just [[♪ The bell ♪]] in two voivodships, Opole and Silesia, MEPs and politicians fought for public hospitals...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u29	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u30	...everyone else - about non-public hospitals...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u31	The next question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski from the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u32	...for which there is room, but as a supplement to the system...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u33	Mr President, you have run out of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u34	...and I believe they'll be... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...but complementary... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u35	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u36	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to refer specifically to the concerns that prevail today in Jastrzębie-Zdrój, at Regional Specialist Hospital No. 2, surrounded by mining, highway. The hospital has had a clinic for jaw-to-face surgery since 1976. This clinic operates in various departments, in its history it operates in general surgery, neurosurgery, today it operates within the sub-branch in otolaryngology. The entry into force of the law we are talking about will cause that this counseling room will actually have to... will not benefit financially from funding from the state budget, external resources. Such clinics operate in the Silesian voivodship seven, after the entry of the new system there will be two. Minister, I'd like to ask you, what's going on with these clinics? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will they be able to benefit from any funding or not, or will they have to be liquidated? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u37	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz Club15. There's no envoy. The question is asked by Mr Tomasz Nowak, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Bigger jobs for hospitals. But will there be more money? Evening aid, post-hospital rehabilitation, clinics. A lump sum will be calculated for the previous year when there were no such forms of work. Since it wasn't there, there was no income either. So how will the income be calculated for these hospitals? Evening Market at the SOR - what if the hospital is in two buildings, in one without the SOR in another part of the city? How will this be shaped in this bill? Will it be necessary to place the evening market in the building in which the SOR is located? Hospital clinics - where do you get the extra staff, Minister, and the money? There isn't one in every city. If there's a specialist clinic at the hospitals, what's gonna happen to the clinics in the area? Will they get the money? The rent is all over the hospital, the contract jobs are on the wards, [[♪ The bell ♪]] now you contract these tasks with doctors without knowing how much money there will be.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u39	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! From the point of view of the citizen, one of the most important things is the stable protection of health care and the comprehensive and coordinated nature of the provision, and so far it has not been the best. From the point of view of the entities, hospitals are important for stable rules of procedure, stable financing conditions. Investment policies and long-term human resources policies can then be better used, more easily. The bill, contrary to what the opposition often claims, gives rise to high hopes among local governments. That voice was heard on the committee. Here the problem of the emergence of medicinal entities choosing from the market is only those most profitable and cost-effective bites, proverbial cherries on the cake. My question concerns many hospitals that will enter the network with the ballast of the past and often with very high debt. Sometimes it doesn't grow anymore, it's supported, but it's very difficult or unlikeable to reduce. Like a ministry. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Can he see the problem?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u41	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u42	Are programmes planned to address this problem? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u43	The question is asked by Beata Małecka-Libera, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u44	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have two specific questions to clarify. I would like to hear your position on two points. The first concerns geriatrics. We know that geriatric hospitals - 800 beds - fly out of the system, but my question also concerns the overall geriatric evaluation, which is absolutely the most effective method, and here we also do not see a place for it. The second question concerns the so-called. Polish powiatowej. In this Poland a lot of monospecialist hospitals were established, including private hospitals, which provided various types of cardiology, orthopedic or ophthalmology services near the patient. These hospitals don't find recognition here either, they won't be contracted. Maybe they'll get some small money from the competitions. The question is, what about all these patients, because there was unfortunately a lot of access in the county Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] more difficult than in big cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u45	Thank you very much. You're asking Marshal Barbara Dolniak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The questions I will ask, not as a practice this time, but as a person that this reform can directly touch as a potential patient. How will the lump sum be calculated paid to hospitals that enter the network? What will be the role of the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technology and Tarification? How can entities that did not have contracts with a national fund, in particular newly built hospitals in the future, access the network? Only by a discretionary decision of the Minister of Health? Will they be able to apply for just a few percent of the funding under the competition procedure and not have the possibility to enter the network at all? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u47	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Monika Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u48	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The NFZ showed hospital directors from the Śląskie voivodship a simulation for the network in this voivodship and it turned out that more than 70 healthcare providers would not enter the network. I would like to ask you to verify this data and ask you to tell us exactly how many hospitals, medical agents will not enter the network in connection with the new bill. Can you just... This can, of course, be verified by verifying the entities that have had an agreement with the NFZ so far and whether they meet the conditions of this project, but I would expect information from the Minister on this subject. Even 500 private hospitals are expected not to enter the network. When designing such a bill, you need to be fully aware of the consequences. Hence the request for clear national information, broken down by voivodship, how many hospitals - and what - will not enter the network. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u49	Thank you. The question is asked by Marek Owa, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When setting the lump sum, 2015 will be taken into account. But it is known that in 2015 all institutions were operating on contracts that have been in force since 2011. During this period, billions of zlotys were invested in the health sector. Only in Małopolska, from which I come, the local government invested more than PLN 0.5 billion, giving a whole new quality and much more opportunities to provide patients with access to health protection. I would like to ask why the Ministry of Health does not intend to take this approach into account and revise so that these investments can serve patients. Why do you want to set a lump sum only at the implementation level of 2015, when these establishments have not yet had contracts because they have not completed investments, or had partial contracts? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why aren't you taking a whole new quality into account when remodeling the system?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u51	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's really a granda that Minister Radziwiłł didn't honor us with his presence, but in fact I don't blame him so much, because this legislative bullshit It really only requires throwing it in the trash. You assume in this bill that when hospitals enter the network, all branches may not be financed. Some of these branches are to be financed through a competition, but it is clear that there will be no money to finance these branches through a competition. Aren't you afraid that then the hospital director will be moving funds from these contracted branches through creative accounting to other branches to keep them? So not only will patients not be treated in these contracted wards, but will also be less treated [[♪ The bell ♪]] All the patients in these hospitals at all. Do you have a solution? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u53	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Jan Mosiński, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The peak of hypocrisy, as I listen to the current opposition, i.e. the politicians of PO and PSL, who are so concerned about patients, hospital workers. Ladies and gentlemen, the conversion of hospitals into commercial law companies has been prepared, introduced and then supported by Ewa Kopacz, the Minister of Health. The program was a total failure, a failure. The facilities are still in debt... [[Member Beat Małecka-Libera: How? Where?]] ...and most of the workers have not had a raise, Madam, for 9 years, including non-medical workers. Minister, the Act introduces a guaranteed, legally protected level of the lowest basic salaries for individual groups of professional medical workers who are employed in medicinal entities. I have a question: What is the situation with non-medical workers? I ask because there are a lot of controversy, misconceptions around it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please pay attention to Art. 32th Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u55	Thank you. The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u56	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the Minister. The Minister and some Members of the PiS are enchanting reality by saying that there will be no liquidation of hospitals, but one of the objectives of this reform is to fulfil the orders for those hospitals which are not profitable today and whose contracts end in the course of the year. And I don't understand a little, because of the empty, as they say, and Solomon is not going to pour in how you want to give one more without adding funds to the system or taking away others. You can't do that. My second question is this: How does the Minister intend to control the wild merger of hospitals, which we are already observing in some way today? Hospitals, afraid they won't go online, connect. In this way, good hospitals can combine with weak and weak hospitals, and in this situation they can involve good establishments that have worked well and profitablely. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They handled their patients properly...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u57	The question is asked by Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u58	...at a high level. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The reform of the health system introduced in 1998 was intended to implement two main demands: firstly, the introduction of a health insurance contribution increasing with salaries, i.e. not subject to annual tenders between the health department and the finance department, in which health has always lost and secondly, the following of the patient's financial resources, so that they reach the best healthcare providers, the best doctors, therapists, the best hospitals. I would like to ask: How will this second request be implemented in the new system? [[Mr Beat Małecka-Libera: No, he won't.]] I'm personally interested in a number of complications. [[Member Beat Małecka-Libera: It will not be implemented.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u60	Thank you. The question is asked by Maria Zuba, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'll start with a case like this. Patient with inflammatory tumor in soft tissues and inside the spinal canal has been lying in the ward for 2 months, doctors want to help him, unfortunately they still can't diagnose him, they say: a specialist hospital can do it further. Meanwhile, the specialist hospital says: well, we will accept, only we need to have him thoroughly diagnosed. And there is no family going from hospital to hospital in this good system, which, as I hear from the opposition Members, should not be changed, the family 2 months looking for a solution and unfortunately cannot find a specialist who would determine what really causes this inflammation in order to be able to continue treating this patient. Is the system you are proposing today for this family [[♪ The bell ♪]] Finding a solution?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u62	Thank you. The question is...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u63	If so, how will this happen...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u64	...Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u65	...and what should this family do today?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u66	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is indeed an important debate on a very important bill, and it is a real shame that Minister Radziwiłłł is not with us today. I would like to return to the question: How will the participants who have done and will do, for example, have been treated in the course of the selection procedure for the network during the last few months. changes in the legal form? Were they involved in mergers and acquisitions? In my opinion, there is a real risk that the NFZ may consider that such a new entity does not fulfil the condition of providing health care services under an agreement of at least the last two calendar years. The parties to such agreements were, at least on paper, other entities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u68	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Marta Golbik, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u69	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Does the Minister know what he is going to do when he decides to include the hospital in the so-called network. extraordinary qualification for the hospital network, i.e. qualification on the basis of a discretionary decision of the Minister of Health? If so, we'd like to know. Second thing. The Sejm Analysis Office in its analysis - this is a very important reading - notes that the project envisages very rapid changes, taking into account the number of entities, the value of their assets, the number of employees affected by these changes. These changes are not supported by a detailed analysis of their impact. These are all the comments of the Sejm Analysis Office. I wanted to ask: What is the justification for making such rapid changes in such a sensitive area? In our view, there is no such justification. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u70	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Several hundred closed hospitals throughout Poland and kilometers of queues to specialists. In one opinion, this is how the effects of the possible implementation of this law can be summarised in the present form. Despite the numerous questions we have asked, both the Mazowieckie voivodeship and the health minister, it is still unknown which hospitals will be removed. The press and expert portals are talking about nearly 500 hospitals. They say that, for example. In Warsaw, less money will be given mainly to gynecological hospitals, such as the hospital in Żelazna, Inflancka and Madaliński, which not only receive hundreds of births per year, but above all carry out very important gynecological procedures that guarantee women's health. In conclusion, PiS eliminates fair birth standards, PiS limits the financing of gynecological hospitals, PiS limits the availability of certain contraceptives. Don't you want children to be born in Poland? What woman will decide to have children in Poland? [[Member of the Commission, either abortion or childbirth.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u72	The question is asked by Mrs Andżelik Możjanowska, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Ministry of Health, without Minister Radziwilla, has orphaned this bill today. Minister Radziwiłł ignores women, women's safety and health through his solutions, but through this law he also ignores the health of patients, patients of the whole Republic of Poland, their safety, and human health and life are priceless. Minister, I have a specific question, and I ask you to answer in writing for the funding of hospitals in Wielkopolska. Which hospitals in Wielkopolska counties will be online? How many hospitals are at risk and not on this network? How much money is allocated to Wielkopolska for flat-rates, and how much for competitions? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u74	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u75	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! Will the reform in the form of a network of hospitals stop irregularities in the Polish health service, such as fabulous contracts for simple and highly paid medical services in the order of tens of millions of PLN per year for individual clinics, such as competitions taunting the principles of reliability, where equipment and appropriate services for patients were declared in the competitions, and then the hospital did not have and did not implement this? This is confirmed by the results of inspections carried out by the NFZ as well as by the labour inspection. I'm not talking about treating employees anymore. This also applies to district hospitals in Lublin Voivodeship under the supervision of management boards from PSL. Will the network of hospitals introduced by the government stop the debt process of hospitals, which in previous years has taken on enormous proportions? We have dealt with debt even in parabanks, in institutions that are not subject to supervision by KNF. Is there any chance of this situation, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you think this is going to be stopped? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u76	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u77	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. Why is there no neurology and orthopedics in the basic network, the one that practically concerns county hospitals? Sometimes they're very good troops, basic troops, the most numerous troops. I know you'll be able to contract these services. But if the hospital doesn't contract neurology, what's next with this hospital? A hospital like this doesn't stand a chance, a reason to be, because neurology is the primary department. My question: Why do you have these basic branches, such as neurology or orthopedics, moving as far away from your patients as possible? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u78	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u79	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister on his courage and determination. I am convinced that the catastrophic visions of the opposition will not work. Now a few questions. I don't have much time, so first of all, flat-rate. I think it has a lot of advantages, although it arouses a lot of emotions, eliminates the fiction of competitions, eliminates the pathology of the procedure, not patients. We introduce complexity of treatment, complexity of treatment of the entire patient. The question is: What are the incentive mechanisms envisaged? I'm asking because there's a fear that the system won't motivate the doctors enough. The second question concerns debt. Debt problems, although unrelated to the network, are also very important. Is the government working on any laws that would delay the hospital's extension? Third question. Is there any kind of districting of hospitals? I know it isn't, but Janusz Sanocki, who was just a moment ago, had doubts that there was one, so it is worth answering. Fourth, last question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The hospital is also... Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u80	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u81	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Listening to today's debate, I have the impression that it is the Law and Justice, according to the debaters here, that indebted hospitals and led to the ruins of health care. Presenting today's situation... The current health situation leaves much to be desired when it comes to patients: long queues, lack of knowledge where you can use professional medical care, cause bitterness among patients. That's why I have a question for the Minister. Will the reform result in the patient knowing where to treat, and will it be guaranteed to provide a comprehensive benefit, and the patient will no longer have to look, drive, check where he can heal? I'm convinced... Minister, thank you for making such a clear effort to repair the health care system, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which was destroyed by the governments of PSL and the Civic Platform. [[Applause]] [[Member Beat Małecka-Libera: Zenada.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u82	The question is asked by Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u83	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister of Health. Why is the Ministry of Health not making an effort, trying to change tariffs in the current system? Why make a revolution? It is possible to fight for hospitals that function well, to guide people's health reasonably. I wonder, this is another question, isn't it counted in such a way that on the scale of patient spending private service, which so far has 30 billion shares in the medical market... Will this share be increased to a higher ceiling in order to relieve the State's burden on paid services to its citizens? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u84	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u85	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Health care in Poland has been ill for many years. New healers have not yet healed health care. As there were queues, so now they are longer and longer - and it will be longer - waiting time in queues to specialists. I have questions about that. Will the Minister cure the health care so that the waiting time in the queues to the specialists will be shortened? Will you create such conditions that doctors and average staff will receive such conditions that they will not leave the country for work and decent living, and Poles will be treated with health care as they should, so that health care really serves our countrymen? That's what we expect. Here are some examples: if you come to me privately, you will pay, we will cure you. And one case: a 32-year-old woman fainted on the street, an ambulance arrived, sniffed, sober, took her to the hospital at the E.R. in Koszalin, and, ladies and gentlemen, [[♪ The bell ♪]] They hooked up an IV in the hallway, held it for two or three hours, then thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u86	The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u87	Is this how you're supposed to treat a patient? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Member Beat Małecka-Libera: Zenada.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u88	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The health care system in our country is still not functioning properly despite the many reforms that have been undertaken over the past twenty-seven years. We have little resources and very great needs, all the more so we should pay attention to the effectiveness of spending these funds. I would like to remind you that in 1999 the system of financing health care was introduced through sick money. 16 regional sickness funds were created, as well as industry money for uniformed services. What we have seen is the first positive effects of these changes, the competition that has emerged has had a positive impact on the functioning of the whole system. Unfortunately, after four years, another revolt was made, and this system was centralized. Today you are taking another step in this direction, leading to flat-rate funding, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to be financed de facto from the budget.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u90	The question is asked by Mr Piotr Pyzik, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u91	How can we ensure this effectiveness? [[Vice Marshal disables microphone, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u92	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you a question from three spaces. The first issue is the matter of settlement. Will there be situations such as oncology, that the patient is being examined and treated in a certain space, for example. Is chemotherapy being sent back to another hospital? I mean, a situation where it would benefit the patient, not the system. The second point is the issue of nurses. The whole system is based on -- it's called yes -- the average medical staff. I mean, this system solution will translate into an increase in education or the quality of this education when it comes to middle-level workers. And the third issue is the question of what is the anticipated impact of the civilizational disease space. I'm talking oncology, diabetes, heart disease. As it translates, let's say, into the health of society, of course regarding access to these medical benefits. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u94	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u95	Thank you very much. Minister! This law is - no matter what you say - an anti-patient law and is a dangerous experiment in health care, a trap set on patients and leading to a reduction in constitutional rights to health care. Finally, I ask you to answer: How many entities that have a contract with the NFZ today will be off the grid? It is known that the liquidation of the branch or the liquidation of the hospital means that some patients will remain unattended. Where are these patients gonna find medical attention? Who will replace this part of health care? Why is there no geriatrics in the system of qualification? We live longer, we heal longer, and this geriatric treatment is needed. Where's the geriatrics? And last, Minister. All indications are that this reform of yours is connected to the hospital network. [[♪ The bell ♪]] She's gonna force her patients...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u96	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u97	...to pay out of your own pocket. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u98	...Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Recently, I had the opportunity to talk to a member of the PiS who very much praised this reform, that hospitals would be provided with funding, but to understand why he was so encouraging this reform, one must know that it is a management member, the director of one of the health care establishments. And this reform is: it's for hospital directors. They're not gonna do anything yet, and their hospitals are gonna have a lot of money in their accounts. Instead of making the measures that follow the patient, the State gives them to directors who, of course, will not be motivated to comply with the highest standards. But I wanted to ask you a specific question. The number of hospitals that will not be received has already been reported here, and will not be included in the network in the Silesian voivodeship. I wanted to ask you about hospitals in Cieszyn, Pszczyna, Bielsko-Biała and Żywiec. Well, which branches will be on the net, and which will not be found. [[♪ The bell ♪]] - at the hospital, at the ZOZ in Cieszyn...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u100	Thank you. The question is asked by Anna April, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u101	...in a hospital in Pszczyna... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u102	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u103	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I just wanted to say one thing about Mr Suchon. The doctors don't treat the directors in hospitals, sir. And let's not scare the patients that all of a sudden doctors are gonna put their vows on a stake because that's what doctors do. [[Applause]] But the question actually arises: Why is it so bad, Minister, if the opposition says it's so good? The health system is inefficient, misjudged by all health market participants, except those who choose the so-called ones from this system. raisins. I have two questions. Will this new system eliminate these pathologies? And will the new system definitely simplify and improve the settlement comfort between the provider and the payer? So far this system has been so complicated that very often [[♪ The bell ♪]] He gave birth to great frustration and was demotivating to hospitals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u104	Thank you, Member. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Indeed, the issue of the hospital network raises concerns and many doubts, especially in smaller towns, which I have the pleasure of representing. Therefore, my question - I would ask for a written answer - is: What is the fate of hospitals like the county hospital: in Międzychość, Szamotuły, Oborniki, Nowy Tomyśl, Grodzisk, Olsztyn or Wągrowiec? Over the years, there's been huge public money invested there, and now there's a lot of concern. Can I calmly tell all residents of these districts that these hospitals are safe and will be online? Thank you very much. Don't I get applause? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u106	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question: Doesn't the Ministry fear that a network of hospitals will introduce greater centralism than it was even in the NFZ? Will it not stiffen the system, restrict the choice of the patient, or will the quality of the service deteriorate? How will the lump sum be calculated for hospitals? What proven patterns from Europe and the world will be taken into account here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń wants to correct his question. Half a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u109	Thank you, Marshal. I want to correct the information that you did not understand. [[I understand perfectly.]] I absolutely didn't talk about doctors, although I think the doctors who are calling, for example. for a clause of conscience, they should not do this, because, above all, the care of the service, the health care system should have been the patient. And the problem is that, as far as this reform is concerned, the patient is not in the center, only the head of the centers, the hospital director, who will receive the funds without declaring anything, [[♪ The bell ♪]] doing nothing, not doing anything. And that's the problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u110	Thank you very much. Mr President, you've already corrected it. The answer will be given by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mr Piotr Gryza. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u111	Dear Marshal, Dear Questioning States! Ladies and gentlemen! High Seym! I will try to answer within certain thematic blocks, but first I will say that it is worth it, however, before we discuss it, to know the draft law. Mr Owa formulated the argument that the role of the voivodships will increase significantly as a result of this law. Mr President, this is simply a disgrace. You're the one who doesn't know this project at all. How are we supposed to get to a serious job if you haven't met this project? [[Mr Beat Małecka-Libera: Do not remind Members.]] Another matter that involves explaining certain doubts. For example, Mr Kamysz or some of the Members of the PSL have asked about the county hospitals, including neurology and orthopedics. Well, ladies and gentlemen, let's first introduce some system characteristics. I told you in my opening statement. Among other things, on the basis of health maps, it can be seen that a significant proportion of the benefits provided in specialised branches are not specialised. Quality is expressed, among others. that the benefit is performed where it is performed in a large number. The aim is to really transfer specialized benefits to highly specialised branches. And that's why the proper mechanisms are prepared, among others. the settlement of neurological benefits at such a basic level, which is in the draft regulation both statutory and regulation, can be carried out through a branch of internal diseases, on the basis of the already operating order of the President, which speaks of a certain proportionality of the services rendered. Another important thing is that in the draft regulation, on the basis of the statutory provisions, impact neurology is attached because of its importance to the contract which will be able to receive the hospital, in this case the hospital of the first degree. The same is true for orthopedics and traumatology. This profile will be attached to the first degree hospitals. So these calls and threats, when it comes to the lack of availability of benefits, this is just a certain game around this bill. Let's talk about the details and explain the details. Ladies and gentlemen, I, like Mr Sosnierz, have been actually since the beginning of this system. I built, among others. Mazovian sick money, I was her first director. And the kind of storm that you're experiencing right now, I've also been going through. I also experienced a similar storm when the methodology of homogeneous patient groups was being built. What a huge storm there was. They said, "What a disaster it's gonna be." Ladies and gentlemen - I address patients - don't believe it. This is just how it always happens when important changes in health care are made. You just have to go through this storm. Because in order to do something good, you just have to answer these questions and go, despite the odds. [[Applause]] Another very important issue is the flat-rate financing and the telling of such things, that it is financed, that it is money that goes before the patient and that whether it stands or lies, 2,000. It's due. I explained that, among other things. in the introductory statement. Firstly, it is important to ask what to call a system that finances benefits, but has a certain limit on benefits. Is it paying for the service, or is it paying for the patient? What do you call this witness? Well, every method of financing health care benefits has certain features, also negative impacts and positive impacts. I will repeat and answer my doubts about the benefit financing system itself. Firstly, lump sum schemes exclude groups of benefits which are justified for this exemption, which are particularly costly, or those whose lump sum settlement is not justified. I presented this list at the very beginning. Besides, this list is subject to regulation by the Minister of Health and may change, because it is a regulatory system that we will adapt to the current situation. As far as the flat-rate calculation is concerned, the first method of flat-rate calculation is based on implementation in 2015, taking into account the prices that are currently being applied, of course. However, in such situations, in which e.g. the hospital was temporarily excluded or renovated, or when another event occurred, the law and the draft regulation provide for such exceptions and such exceptions are taken into account in this regulation. The construction of a lump sum is that on the basis of benefits made during the current settlement period a financial plan is being drawn up in the next settlement period, taking into account that if you have done less, you will have less if you have done more, then you will have a little more. This element is still related to qualitative indicator, i.e. if you have a quality certificate issued by accreditation of the Minister of Health either if you are performing more outpatient care services compared to the previous period, or if you are performing more difficult hospitalizations, and this is expressed as a simple indicator, the average hospitalization value is higher than it was in the previous period, then these rates increase your lump sum. And one more very important thing. All regulations that are currently in force, namely basket issues, tariff issues, continue to apply. All of this puts a certain rigour on the providers of the benefits. In addition, it is clear from the General Terms and Conditions Regulation that if the provider does not perform the benefits, the National Health Fund will terminate the contract with him and this will be the end of the contract. Thus, the rigor regarding non-performance of benefits is maintained and the remuneration in the next period is absolutely related to how the hospital worked during the previous period of settlement. Therefore, there is no risk - no risk - so that there is no basis for the thesis: whether to stand or lie, 2,000. It's due. Moreover, such a system leads to greater efficiency, because a feature of our system is what, for example. NIK noted in the monitoring of the activities of the National Health Fund for 2015, that the amount of funds allocated to benefits is increasing, even the number of benefits is increasing, and not improving access to benefits. This method of settlement, as well as the construction of the whole system, is the answer to this situation. The aim is for the patient to have adequate access to benefits. The flexible method, i.e. the combination of the flat-rate method, which is linked to what the entity has been doing, with the method of financing separate benefits, first, is intended to guarantee adequate access, is intended to provide the possibility to finance benefits that require particular care from the regulator and at the same time to increase the efficiency of the whole system. The next group of questions that have been raised is related to this, and I have the impression that you are talking about me or us, and you are thinking about yourselves. You're talking about this system, and you're talking about a system that works. This is a very important message. Mr Arłukowicz said that this is communism. I do not know communism as well as the Member. And that is an unjustified, completely unfounded claim. [[Applause]] And it has nothing to do with the budget. This has nothing to do with the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, if we were to refer to the Polish People's Republic, to the model of Siemaszka, this model had several features, e.g. Putting a patient in the area, right? There is no such situation here, and it would be difficult to apply such a mechanism. The patient has freedom of choice. This is also the answer to one of the questions that have been asked. The patient has a choice and the patient chooses which subject he will want health care in. Here's another thing. There's been a few questions about... Oh, well, maybe it's just one of those things. We need to be aware of the system we are currently operating in. We operate in the competition system. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the competition system has a thing for someone to win, someone to lose. And it's not here: forgive me. At the moment of the spot, if there's a certain amount of money, someone has to lose so that someone can win. If, for example, There will be a small subject with a certain range, and a multi-profile hospital will lose the contest not for the whole, but for a certain extent, so we will cause the situation that this hospital will de facto have to fall. We now have a system that melts away in a lot of financial streams, and that's the slow dying of many hospitals, the slow dying of many hospitals. This system needs to be applied. If you're asking about the system's efficiency, here's the answer to the system's efficiency question. We identify relevant market players. We do not close anything, we do not lead to liquidation, but we provide a guarantee of functioning to relevant and very important market players in this project so that these entities can perform benefits both now, because access to benefits exists at this time and in a year's time, in five years' time. And a reference to Mr Kamish's statement. He said that local government entities, district entities carried out many investments, improved quality. Yes, and this system precisely guarantees that these funds invested will have a sustainability feature, that these entities will normally be able to carry out their activities. Moreover, this system encourages investment, because it guarantees a certain continuity, gives a certain structure, gives a certain order, determines the direction in which the hospital should be invested, in which direction the hospital should develop. It is precisely now that there are grounds for knowing that if I invest in this area - it falls within a certain area of responsibility for a certain degree of hospital - this investment will indeed be justified. Ladies and gentlemen, a mechanism has already been put in place in the previous mandate to assess the purpose of the investment, as it has been recognised that not every investment is intended in health care. It could even be argued that if we do not invest, we are de facto destroying the system, because in the case of any non-target investment there is a claim for public funds. That is why it is so important to monitor the investment process. And so, among other things. The government in its previous term of office introduced a mechanism for assessing the accuracy of investments. We have expanded this process a little bit by introducing IOWISZ instruments, and the regulation itself related to the security system creates areas and says: if you are developing in this area, if this is the scope that corresponds to a certain responsibility of the hospital of your degree, you should invest. And finally, it's a matter of hospitals that don't go online. Well, ladies and gentlemen, 91% of the security system goes into the system. the value of health benefits, i.e. the vast majority of benefits provided, enter the security scheme. There is no concern about the lack of availability of benefits here. However, those who are not in this system may, of course, be subject to the competition procedure, except that this competition procedure will be more appropriate, because it will be addressed to a smaller number of entities and will include a smaller number of benefits that the public payer should purchase on behalf of the patient. The geriatrics that came here. The position of the Minister of Health in this matter is as follows: treatment of an elderly patient in a hospital should be kept to a minimum. The point is to treat an older patient in his environment, and geriatric doctors are absolutely necessary, but as consultants. They should be helping doctors in the hospital, doctors in outpatient care, finally doctors in the POZ. Yeah, they're needed, and you have to educate them, because geriatric doctors aren't enough. Therefore, geriatric centres should primarily have a scientific and educational dimension so that new geriatrics can be educated. Such centres should be developed in clinical centres. However, there will be no major change here, because geriatric centers, which are currently, can be accounted for by internal disease units. Mrs Malecka-Libera asked for geriatric support. Yeah, that's the idea. Besides, this has already been introduced because the Geriatric procedure is included in the joint basket section. I'm sure we'll keep going this way to establish the obligation to support geriatrics in basket regulations, assuming the geriatric doctor is needed in hospital operations. And finally, finally. This is indeed a major change, and at the same time a minor systemic adjustment, because the vast majority of relevant actors receive a financing guarantee, which will improve the efficiency of access to health services, increase the possibility of financing hospital benefits and thus become more stable and will be able to develop further. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u112	Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Thank you very much.]] The Member has already read the bill in the meantime. Half a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u113	Mr. Marshal! Minister! It is not such a problem - read these 18 pages. Plus, I've been listening to two more of your hour presentations on the committee. You in the committee of local government have very clearly outlined a further perspective. This further perspective is a new law that will abolish the National Health Fund. This is due to take place in six months and a new system should be introduced from 1 January 2018. That's what the committee said. Then the troops will be subject to the voivodship. My speech was also an expression in this context. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u114	The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Following the planned change of the basic system of hospital health insurance and the introduction of the so-called. I ask the Minister of Health to inform you about the hospitals of the voivodship that are subordinate to the voivodship authorities. What is the financial condition of these hospitals today? What is the average debt of this group of hospitals? Which one of these hospitals has the largest debt and what is it? Which one of these hospitals has the least debt? How much financial arrears are there for these hospitals because of over-executions? How much do they amount to for voivodship hospitals in individual voivodships? Please provide these commitments to hospitals from different voivodships, which have the largest debt due to over-executions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u116	I propose that the Sejm take note of the Minister of Health's information about the basic system of hospital health insurance. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 37th meeting of the Polish Sejm. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? There's another call, please. From now on, I consider the list of Members who have been made to make statements to be closed. Mr Jan Mosiński, first Member of the Law and Justice Club. Are you an MP? There it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Not long ago, we celebrated the National Day of Remembrance very proudly, the Soldiers of the Cursed. Today I would like to express my deep thanks to all those organizations and associations that in the Kalisk-Leszczyński constituency have helped to commemorate the heroes of those days. Their memory will last forever. As a reminder, in 2001 the Polish Sejm adopted a resolution in which it recognised the merits of the organizations and groups of independence, which, after the end of World War II, decided to engage in an unequal fight for Poland's sovereignty and independence, thus paying tribute to the fallen and murdered and all imprisoned and persecuted members of the organization Freedom and Independence. In 2009, the Combating Organizations, the Association of Freedom and Independence, the Union of National Armed Forces Soldiers and the World Union of National Army Soldiers, asked to establish on 1 March the day commemorating the soldiers of the anti-communist underground. The legislative initiative on the adoption of the holiday was launched in February 2010 by the President of the Republic of Poland, but Kaczyński, directing the relevant project to the Sejm. Why am I talking about this, High Izbo? Mr Mariusz Witczak, Member of the Civic Platform, said in an interview for the weekly "Kaliska Land": Bronisław Komorowski has the merit of adopting this holiday. This was done under the rule of the Civic Platform. These are facts, says Mr Civic Platform. What are the facts, I just quoted. The merit of this, above all, of the soldiers themselves, who were secretly murdered and pushed to the graves of oblivion, was the merit of the fighting organizations and finally, in the legislative process, of the dead. Prof. Dr. hab. Lech Kaczyński, President of the Brightest Republic of Poland. These are facts and I ask here, from the speakers of the Polish Sejm, that the politicians of the Civic Platform do not rewrite history, blur the facts and do not change the truth for their only and only mental comfort. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u118	Thank you very much. The statement will now be made by Mr Krzysztof Maciejewski, the Law and Justice Club. Why don't you put it in writing? [[I'll read it.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Recently, from this speaker I asked all of us to restore our memory on 1 March to those Poles who devoted themselves to fighting for a free homeland. This is the day that the Law of the Polish Sejm of 3 February 2011 was established by the National Day of Remembrance of the Cursed Soldiers, thus creating an excellent opportunity for all soldiers of the Conspiracy Army after World War II. In our memory they found a place where heroes sit, so that those soldiers who were condemned to oblivion regain their dignity in free Poland. They did not live to see the free country, therefore it is our duty to speak of them with respectful text, because they were not bandits, but defenders of free Poland. So let us speak loudly and for as long as we have been told to keep silent about them. Leeks were doomed to such oblivion. Henryk Piasecki pseudod. Firewall. Fortunately, there are organizations in our country who want to commemorate the heroic achievements of soldiers from the Conspiracy Polish Army. Thus, at the initiative of the Patriotic Society in Radomsk on 11 December 2016 in the parish church in Kodręba, Radomszcza County, a solemn Mass was held in the intention of the 71st anniversary of the death in the field of glory of the cursed soldiers: the dead. d.o.b. Henryk Piasecki and his deputy lieutenant. Sergeant. Józef Broniszewski, Borina. Lieutenant Henryk Piasecki, commander of the Conspiracy Company of the Polish Army, and Sergeant. Józef Broniszewski died on 6 December 1945 in an ambush set up by a special operating group UB, NKVD and KBW appointed by the head of the Regional Security Office in Łódź. The assassins' commando was waiting in the mill buildings in the Painted Willa. Prejudiced by an agent on the approach of officers opened fire through the door with about 20 barrels. Lieutenant O'Neill, the dam was killed at the scene. His deputy, badly wounded, died after a few hours left in the cold without help. The night sky lit up the red flares. It was the officer responsible for the execution of the firewalls and the Borinas who informed the guards in the area about the end of the action. The body of the fallen officer was kept in the cold for two days, so that news of the death of the legendary guerrilla would spread all the villages. It was only after 2 days that the parents were released with conditional permission for a quiet funeral. The dams at the cemetery in Codręba. Who was the first conspiracy officer of the Polish Army, the favorite of the commandant of Warsaw? Lieutenant Henryk Piasecki.The dam was born on 31 December 1922 in Zapolice, Radomsko district, in a poor peasant family. He was raised in patriotic traditions and deep religiousism. Thanks to a scholarship for highly capable peasant children, he was able to study in high school. Bolesław Chrobre in Piotrków Trybunalski. As a result of the war, when he had to stop schooling, he continued it in secret sets. Since 1940, he's been in the Armed Fighting Union and the AK. In 1943, he finishes a covert AK. He participates in diversionary actions at the command of the Commandant of the Podobrod Rzejowice AK por. Stanisława Sojczyński, Zbigniew, later Warsaw. On August 8, 1943, in a famous attack on Radomszczan prison, he fights in a 15-man assault group - which, according to her commander, was the best of the best - which won the prison and freed 60 prisoners. Thanks to the BBC radio, the next day she knew about this action and talked about the whole occupied Europe. From the next day he is already a soldier of the 1st squad of guerrilla Radomszcza land under the command of Lt. Zbigniew, later creator and first commander of the Conspiracy Army of the Polish Capt. Stanisława Sojczyńskiego.Warszyca. In November 1944, he is appointed an officer for special tasks. In the forest remains until the end of the war. After entering the Soviet army, he hides in Katowice. He's taking a teaching job at school and an absentee pedagogical course. Wanted by the Homeland Security, he's gonna have to give up those plans. In the spring of 1945, after making contact with Capt. He is sworn in by him as an officer of an anti-communist armed organization under the proud name of the Conspiracy Polish Army. In the summer of 1945 he finishes forming his branch, which puts at his disposal Warsaw [[♪ The bell ♪]] as the 5th company. Finally... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u120	Thank you very much, sir. You've run out of time. Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Pyzik will now make a statement. Mr President, the experience of the previous Member teaches that it is better to leave this in writing, because then it will fit in its entirety. [[But I'd rather read it if I could.]] Is it really necessary? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u121	Thank you kindly. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday was another anniversary of a certain event, the effects of which still seem to be affecting today. On 9 March 1589 a treaty was concluded between the Commonwealth of both Nations and the countries of Emperor Rudolf II Habsburg. This agreement was the result of the struggle for the throne of Poland after the death of King Stefan Batori and the battle fought a year earlier, in which the great captain John Zamoyski defeated and captured Archduke Maximilian III Habsburg near Byczyn. Despite the reignless and chaos created around the election of the new ruler, and the political betrayal of Habsburg supporters under the leadership of Zborowskie Rzeczpospolita gave a demonstration of its strength and efficiency in resisting armed interference in its internal affairs. The talks took place on the then border, in Bytom and Będzin, today it is Upper Silesia. On the Polish side they were led by Andrzej Opaliński, Jeronim Rozdrażewski, Stanisław Gostomski, Janusz Ostrogski and Jan Zamoyski. The Habsburg side was presided over by Wilhelm of Rozemberk and Bishop of Olomouc Stanislav Pavlovský. The role of mediator and mediator, interestingly, was the legate of the papal card. Ippolito Aldobrandini, later Pope Clement VIII. The contents of the treaty obliged Maximilian Habsburg to renounce the usurped title of the Polish king, for which he was given his freedom. In addition, Emperor Rudolf II renounced all agreements with Moscow against the Republic of Poland and Sweden. He also withdrew his support for the archduke's supporters, and the previously occupied Lubowla returned to Polish hands. Already in July, or 4 months later, the Polish side fulfilled its obligations, releasing Archduke Maximilian, who could freely leave our borders. In spite of this, Maximilian formally resigned from the title of ruler of the Republic only 9 years later, in 1598, and his supporters in Poland - and this is the most important issue - destroyed plans for reform of the election system and government. As a result, 100 years later, after the Swedish Floods, Poland counted 40% less when it comes to population, because it's just 40% population, up to 40% The population was murdered by Swedes. 200 years later, our neighbors were already planning to tear apart Poland. And the next 123 years of captivity only showed that in a situation where the state is strong and able to influence its policy not only internally but also externally, there may be forces which, frowning on the subject of power over Poland, can betray, unfortunately also calling on neighbours to intervene. I would like some people to learn from this very urgently today. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u122	Thank you very much. The statement will now be made by Mr Jan Kilian, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u123	Mr. Marshal! First of all, I would like to express my thanks to the people of Starogard Gdansk, the old-garde land for their organization, for their participation in organizing various events related to commemorating the celebration of the cursed soldiers. And in today's statement, I would like to refer to the situation of the Oldgard before the enchanted soldiers arrived on the ground. Before our city was occupied on 6 March 1945 by troops 2. The Belarusian Front under the command of Marshal Konstanty Rokossowski, the military situation of Germany became increasingly difficult. Three weeks before the final release of the inhabitants from German invaders, Soviet military aviation bombarded, in which many buildings, both residential and factory, were completely or seriously destroyed. The direct impact of the Soviet troops on Starogard was preceded by fights in the region of Owid and Hermanov. The Germans fought fierce resistance, which with great effort was defeated by attacking soldiers. After the fights during the night from March 5th to March 6th, the infantry and tanks broke into the city. Victor Kulikov led the attack on the city. For this reason, in Moscow, an order was given by the chief commander of the Red Joseph Stalin Army on the matter of decorating the combatants with war orders and giving armored guns on 7 March in honor of his soldiers. After the city was occupied by the Red Army at the confluence of the street. Kościuszki and ul. Sobieski in the corner building was located the military commandant of the city. The social moods were far from euphoria. There were fires in the city at several points. The general atmosphere was influenced by the numerous rapes and acts of violence that took place. The winners treated the local population, their property and infrastructure as a war prize, and the territory of Pomerania as a captured German province. The image of the city acquired as a result of the fights consisted of February bombing, as well as artillery fire and the use of tanks for fighting in the city. We should also mention the deliberate arson that took place after the Red Army captured Starogard. The pretext was to find traces of German residents living in them. Buildings of public administration, offices and institutions were also consciously destroyed. These actions have remained unpunished. Apart from vandalism, it was common to dismantle machines and equipment from local factories. As a result of the front actions there were also civilian victims among both Poles and Germans. Before the Soviet troops were launched, after the city was captured, the market was set on fire in four corners, and the population was forbidden to put out fires. All this to show contempt by a new winner towards the local population. During several post-war years, a gradual reconstruction continued - with the greatest increase in 1948 and 1950. Part of the building which was demolished to the foundations remained in this state for several decades after the war. To this day, the term "liberation" is used for this day, but for these many women who have been harmed, raped, both in the city and in the area, everything was clear: the occupier has changed. Since March 1945, local men's exports to the Soviet Union began. It is estimated that from the area of the district of Starogard it has been exported to robots in the mining of taiga or demolishing factories more than 1,000. Men. Many of them did not survive under the extreme conditions in which they were found. Those who survived returned to Poland for the next few years and lived with this trauma for the rest of their lives. After a few months soldiers who were cursed, as we call them today, appeared in the district of Starogard under the command of Major Zdzisław Szendzielorz ps. Scoundrel. The surrounding inhabitants, persecuted by the Soviets, breathed for a while. They found support in them. Not for long. The steadfast soldiers fought until their last breath. Time heals the wounds. Today we enjoy peace and freedom, which are values in themselves. Let's keep it that way forever. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u124	Thank you very much. The statement will be made by Mr Grzegorz Puda, the Law and Justice Club. Mr President, how about in writing?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Volunteer firefighters are one of the largest services in Poland. 16,000. There are more than 690 thousand voluntary firefighters in Poland. Firefighters. It is a huge capital created mainly by civic activity of the inhabitants. As much as 90% persons engaged in activities TSOs shall be members working for their units free of charge. According to the Fire Protection Act, they have the equivalent of municipalities for participating in rescue operations and trainings, but it is common practice in Poland to renounce them by firefighters and transfer them to current TSOs. Nowadays, firefighters not only put out fires but also deal with road, chemical and water rescue. At present, there is no big difference in the activities of voluntary firefighters and State Firefighters. Many CSR firefighters are also professional firefighters. However, there is a difference in the financing rules of the two institutions, resulting in many CSR branches complaining about underinvestment and outdated equipment and outdated equipment. In addition to insufficient funding, voluntary firefighters also complain about a number of laws that hinder their daily activities. One of the legal obstacles that I would like to draw your attention to in my speech is the regulation of the Minister of Health issued in 2009, signed by Minister Ewa Kopacz, which refers to the need for research to be carried out in order to approve the ability to participate in rescue and fire operations. The current rules are designed in such a way that a firefighter who is a professional public firefighter must undergo the same medical examinations twice for payment. The costs are most often borne by the TSO, which is often a significant expense per year. This is due to the provision of the regulation, which states that the volunteer is directed to research only on the basis of a referral issued by the uncle, the mayor or the president of the city, while the professional firefighter is directed at research on the basis of the direction of the commander and the State Fire Department unit. This is absurd because it is obvious that a firefighter capable of serving in the State Fire Department is also capable of voluntary service. I therefore appeal from this point of view to be interested in the problem and to amend the rules, which will eliminate such obstacles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u126	Thank you very much. The statement will be made by Krystyna Wróblewska, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 1 March we celebrate the National Day of Remembrance, the Soldiers of the Cursed. This led me to remind you of the figures of the heroes of the 4th General Association of Freedom and Independence, anti-communist soldiers and independence underground. The legislative initiative leading to a new holiday was launched in 2010. President Lech Kaczyński. The justification attached to the bill stated that the establishment of the feast was a tribute to the soldiers of the second conspiracy for their testimony of valor, a steadfast patriotic attitude and attachment to the patriotic traditions, for the blood shed in defence of the homeland. The National Day of Remembrance of Cursed Soldiers is also an expression of homage to numerous local communities whose patriotism and constant willingness of victims for the independence idea allowed the continuation of resistance for many years. In 2011, the Sejm of the Republic in homage to the cursed soldiers established on 1 March the National Day of Remembrance of the Cursed Soldiers. This date is not random. On that day in 1951, in the Mokotov prison, Communists shot the back of their head with a death sentence on seven members of the 4th Board of the General Association of Freedom and Independence: Łukasz Ciepliński, Mieczysław Kawalac, Józef Batory, Adam Lazarowicz, Franciszek Błażej, Charles Chmiel, Józef Rzepce. They were all connected to the current Podkarpackie voivodship. Mokotov prison used the most criminal methods of investigation, they were not spared any of the fancy tortures, and yet they were not broken. This is expressed in a fragment of the prison song by Karol Chmiel: "It is here today that the Polish idea and the underground army of the flower sits, which they wanted to make the world more beautiful by working on the Polish land. The most touching are the flu, letters to the family written in secret from the prison authorities. Łukasz Ciepliński wrote to his wife and son from behind the bars, saying, "In these days I am to be murdered by communists." Hang on, I'm on death row. Death doesn't scare me at all. I feel sorry for you, orphans my dearest. I know that you are always with me, with your heart, with your prayer. I feel it. I see your sore face at the trial. You know me better than anyone, which is why you must have hurt hearing these lying, provocative, and hurtful accusations. Be there, Wisiu, brave. Go on suffering with dignity, peace and faith in God's justice. It's all we have left. Your goal and task are Andrew, and I believe that you will raise him to be a man, a Pole, a Catholic, and that you will convey your spiritual values to him, and you will bind him strongly to me and the idea for which I lived. One of Łukasz Ciepliński's last flu before he died: They'll only take my life, and that's not the most important thing. I am glad that I will be murdered as a Catholic for holy faith, as a Pole for independent and happy Poland, as a man for truth and justice. I believe today more than ever that Christ's idea will prevail and Poland's independence will regain, and the disgraced human dignity will be restored. It's my faith and my great happiness. If you find my grave, you can write those words on it. Goodbye, my love. Kissing and to the heart of the torso. Bless you and the Queen of Poland. Father. The inhabitants of Podkarpacie pay homage every year to the soldiers cursed, steadfast, and in the town of Rzeszów a monument was erected, which is a symbol of that time and reminds us of people who gave their lives so that we could live in free Poland. Hello their memory! Praise the heroes! [[Applause]] [[Praise the heroes!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u128	Thank you, Member. I am now pleased to welcome to the gallery a trip from the town and municipality of Suchowola, the family community of blessed Fr. George Popieluszko. It's very nice to meet you. [[Applause]] The statement will now be made by Mr Sylvester Khrushch of the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 195 years ago, Józef Wybicki, author of the words of the Polish national anthem, died. Józef Wybicki was a Polish politician and writer. By the education of a lawyer, he started political activity at the age of 20 as a Member of the Sejm I of the Republic. A long-standing associate and friend of General Jan Henryk Dąbrowski, with whom he took part in the expedition to help the insurgents in Wielkopolska in 1794, and later cooperated in the Polish Legions in Italy, where the uprising in 1797 had a significant contribution. During his visit to the camp of the legions in Italy in 1797 he created the words of the song, which later became the Polish national anthem, "Mazurka Dąbrowskie." A participant in the Napoleonic Wars. In 1807 he contributed to the creation of the Duchy of Warsaw, one of the leading politicians. During the Polish-Austrian war in 1809 he organized the Wielkopolska defence against the enemy's troops. After the Vienna Congress he co-founded the Kingdom of Poland. Senator of the Duchy of Warsaw since 1807, Senator of the Polish Kingdom since 1915, President of the Supreme Court of the Kingdom of Poland in 1817 and 1820. He was awarded the Order of the White Eagle, the Order of St Stanislaus, the Order of the Legion of Honor. Author of recollections, many political writings and literary works, of which in the general consciousness of Poles was preserved by Masuriak Dąbrowski. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u130	Thank you very much. The last statement, Mr Piotr Misilo, is a modern club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The difficult situation of the largest national shipping company, Polish Maritime Shipping, the continuous absence of symptoms of economic recovery in the global shipping market, and the lack of appropriate actions of the management of the PŻM Group so far caused that Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, in agreement with Mr Mark Gróbiarczyk, Minister of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, introduced the commissioning board in the state enterprise. The main objective of such a decision is to stabilise the situation of the most important and largest national shipping company, maintain the character of PJM as a state enterprise, and introduce measures that will allow the ship owner to survive the deconstructive period and retain thousands of jobs. The role of Commissioner was entrusted to Mr Paul Brzezicki, who was already the chief director of Polish Maritime Shipping in 1998 and 2005. In this case, the only possible legal basis for the introduction of the commissary board into the company is Article. 65 Law of 25 September 1981 on State-owned enterprises. Art. Article 65 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 says: If the company is operating with loss, the founding body, in agreement with the minister responsible for public finances, may initiate resolution by setting up a commission board over the company. From the decision of the founding body referred to in paragraph. 1, there is no objection. The commission board shall be established on time marked. The establishment of the committee board and its revocation shall be subject to the entry in the National Court Register. The only material reason for the establishment of a commission board is therefore the existence of a loss in the company. On Friday 3 March 2017, a meeting of the West Pomeranian Parliamentary Group took place, which I am also a member, as are other Members from the region. At this meeting, Maria Skubniewska, director of the Owner's Supervision Department at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Mediterranean Shipping, said: Polish shipping as a state enterprise, as a standalone legal person, has no losses. On the other hand, the start-ups show other companies belonging to the Capital Group of PZM. In the light of Art. 65 Act on State Enterprises The fact that there is a loss in the so-called PZM Group is not a statutory requirement for the introduction of a commissioning board in the Polish Maritime Shipping, a state enterprise. This may be the basis for taking action in those companies which have a loss, but not in the state enterprise of Poland Żegluga Morska. In view of the particular importance of PZM for the economy of Szczecin and the West Pomeranian region, I have already submitted a letter to the National Court Register on the consideration of the court's decision to refuse the entry of the administrative board in the National Court Register. Dear Prime Minister, this matter needs to be investigated immediately, because if it turns out that the commission manager is illegally introduced, all decisions taken by him may soon be repealed and have disastrous consequences for the further functioning of the Polish Maritime Shipping, which in fact may cease to function in the near future after this illegal operation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u132	Thank you. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Self-governments have been given the right to manage culture on their own territory. I'll appeal to Silesia. The Marshal's Office of Silesian Voivodeship built the Silesian Museum. Only in 2017 did the same office, in addition to the standard budget, grant the facility: 3 900 000 to equip and modernise the ventilation and air conditioning system of museum warehouses, 430 094 PLN and 10 420 877 PLN for the extension of the system of burglar signalling and revitalization of baths and carpenters within the framework of the so-called. Norwegian funds. And this has been the case for several years - money is pumped into one facility. There's no ventilation in the new museum? Is it true what the media are officially silent about, and the employees say to each other that it is a boob in which water is pouring on the walls, threatening monuments? Is it true that the museums have been replaced with specialists from outside Silesia, who are paid much more than the substantive workers, because the law allows it? Looks like saying that even after we're flooded, it's gonna take some pretty real shapes. Some monuments will fall apart, others will drown. Silesia will become a cultural desert, and all this will come true under the supervision of an outstanding art conservator and art historian, lovers of Silesian autonomy. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the effect of this type of action? The rest of the museum institutions in the region are catching up. Do you hear me? This is a rustle of scattered exhibits - sculptures, paintings, all the good preserved for generations. Since the transformation day counts the number of viewers, tables, tables, events. Giving to local government officials in museum management led to the collapse of museums. The P.O. ministerial authorities didn't look into museums. The Ministry took care of those facilities which were directly subject to it. Ladies and gentlemen, in the province you can see - yet - pictures of Wyspiański, Pankiewicz, Zak or Wyczółkowski. They're about to fall apart. Nobody controls anybody, and if they do, it's a speedy and hasty control. Museums are not renovated, valuable collections are not preserved. There is a lack of constructive vision of the reconstruction of museums based on knowledge and science. In national museums is ruled by scientific staff, in the province barely a magistrate and all kinds of teachings. Poorly paid material workers either leave themselves or are removed for all kinds of specialists - these latter wages are far higher than the rest of the trained crew - far from respect for history by light years. The Marshal's Office of the Silesian Voivodeship was allocated to the entire activity - wages, repairs, etc. - e.g. Upper Silesian Museum in Bytom approx. $3,300,000. zł. If you want to count it into the care of the monuments, it amounts to approx. 3 PLN for the maintenance of the facility. Does that require a comment? At the same time, the Marshal's office receives another loan for the stadium in Chorzów. The Golden Stadium. It's a fake, plus plastic. Here we have to ask the question: Where is the carelessness of culture management going and often the lack of proportion of spending money for this purpose? I think we need to do something about this growing problem and pathology for the good of all of us.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u134	A statement by the Members on the 183rd anniversary of the birth of Józef Hauke-Bosak. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! March 19th this year. We will celebrate the 183rd anniversary of the birth of Józef Hauke-Bosak - General of Arms, as well as one of the participants of the January Uprising and the French-Prussian War. Józef Hauke-Bosak was born on 19 March 1834 in St. Petersburg. He came from a noble family of military traditions. His father, the same name, was a captain in the army of the Duchy of Warsaw and then a general of the Russian army, while his father's brother was a Napoleon general. Hauke-Bosak studied in the corps of cadets from an early age, where he could explore and improve his military interests. He also attended the Pazi Corps and graduated from the Higher Military Academy. At the age of 21, he became the chief officer of Tsar Alexander II. A few years later, he moved to the Tsar's active service. At that time, he took part in several fights in the Caucasus, where he proved his skills, thus gaining a promotion to colonel. His life changed dramatically during the patriotic manifestations that took place in 1861 and 1862 when he was only 27 years old. The observation of the demonstration shocked him to the point of resigning. In this way, Joseph Hauke-Bosak realized how difficult the location of Poles is. He felt how strong and true the Polish identity is, which made him want to identify with her with all his heart. Then he decided to join the insurgents of January so that he and the Poles could defend their dignity and sovereignty. He became commander of the Second Corps and insurgent warden in Kraków and Sandomierz voivodships. In this way he met Romuald Traugutt, a Polish general and at the same time dictator of the January Uprising, and worked with him. Hauke-Bosak himself was involved in the introduction of the decrees of patronage, which led him to gain followers in the form of peasants. His troops were destroyed during the Abbot's battle in 1864. After his defeat, he decided to emigrate to France, which he supported during the French-Prussian war. He died in the battle of Dijon on 21 January 1871 without leaving his offspring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-10-sejm-37-3.u135	Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 37th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 38th session of the Sejm, convened on 22nd, 23rd and 24th March 2017, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 13 min 39]]
