ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u1	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Public Finance together with the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry - h.m. 10.15, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 10.15, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 10.30, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10.30, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 10.30, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 10.45, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11, - Maritime and Inland Shipping - h.m. 11, - Culture and Media - hour 12, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - to the European Union in conjunction with the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, at 3 p.m. 12.45, - Administration and Home Affairs together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 13, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 13, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 13, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 13, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 13, - Public Finance - hour. 14, - Infrastructure together with the National Defence Commission - at 10 p.m. 15, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 15, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 16, - Senior policy - h.m. 16, - Rules of Procedure, parliamentary and immunity matters together with the Committee on Culture and Media - hour. 16, - Foreign Affairs - hour 16, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 4:30 p.m., - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 4:30 p.m., - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 18, - Infrastructure - hour 18. Communication on the meetings of the teams. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 11.30, - Parliamentary Group for: Energy - hour 15, - Dolnośląskie Parliamentary Team together with the Krkonoše-Jizera Parliamentary Team - at 3 p.m. 15, - Parliamentary Friends' Team of the Royal City of Sandomierz - hour. 17, - Parliamentary Women's Group - at 10 p.m. 18. Thank you. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u2	Thank you, Member. Ms Urszula Augustyn made a formal request before proceeding with point 1 of the agenda. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u3	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to address Marshal Kuchciński, but after ten minutes, he left the room. That's too bad. [[Voice from the room: What's in there?]] And I was gonna ask him as the second person in the country if he wasn't ashamed of what was going on in this room. Since 20 April, Mr Marshal has been sitting with almost 1 million parents' signatures under the request to convene a referendum on education, verified signatures, parents' signatures, who express their concern about what is going to happen. And once again, Mr. Marshal is not putting this item under discussion. Shame, just shame. So I ask Mr. Marshal Kuchciński: Isn't he ashamed of his formation, which not only promised that she would listen to the sovereign, that he would organize referendums on important matters - she doesn't do it, she lied and lies - she also believes that education of the young generation of Poles is not important? [[Where are 2 million signatures on six-year-olds?]] [[But be quiet.]] Isn't Marshal Kuchciński a shame? I really hope so. What's more... [[Where are 2 million signatures on six-year-olds?]] Don't yell, sir, because you're pathetic. What kind of shouting is that? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What's with the yelling at... [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, would you like to...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u4	Excuse me, Member. Mr. Shieldinski, I ask you to remain calm and allow... [[Me too. I'll have one too.]] I also ask Mr Nitras to remain calm. And if you guys want to discuss it, that's what you're talking about. I would like to ask you to allow Mrs Augustine to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u5	Thank you kindly, all the more so because Mr Tarczyński is taking very valuable time for me. Secondly, the Civic Platform Club has submitted a draft amendment to the Education Law Act, which we are helping you with your problems. Well, we have prepared an amendment in which we postpone your chaotic, unprepared reform for a year. The fact that she is chaotic and unprepared is contrary to the assurances made by Minister Zalewska shows life. See, all you have to do is reach out to any media and see how many parents are concerned because they don't know where their kids are going on September 1st to school. There are no textbooks. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Teachers are fired overnight and it doesn't matter whether they have a permanent contract or not. You ignore them at all, just as you ignore us and the parents who signed the referendum request. I propose once again, Mr Marshal, that the motion for a referendum be placed on the agenda and that a debate be held on it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u6	Thank you, Member. And I'd like to inform... [[We demand a referendum! We demand a referendum!]] Has Mr Dunin made a mistake in the Plenary Room with the Stadium? [[Applause]] [[We demand a referendum!]] I would like to inform you, despite Mr Dunin's shouting, that this matter was discussed today in the Bureau and the Senior Convention. Mr Marshal informed that within the next few minutes, actually a dozen minutes, the opinion would be presented to all the clubs and members of the Bureau. All indications are that this case will be held at the next session of the Sejm, so it will be... [[But the same was supposed to happen two weeks ago, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Shame.]] I ask Mr Dunin to remain calm, and if he has a problem with that, I recommend a melisa. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Thank you very much, Marshal.]] You're welcome. Mr Sławomir Nitras made a formal request. You're welcome. [[Game in the O.R.]] Whenever I am in session - always, Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u7	Mr. Marshal! I'm asking for a break, too. It also has to do with the issue of the referendum, or actually the issue of middle school, which is why... I'm asking for an adjournment so that Marshal Brudziński can inform us of how this can be done. That's because we're a success when it comes to saving junior high. I am personally happy with him because we managed to save Junior High School 16 in Szczecin, where my daughter is studying. And that was because Minister Kopeć wrote a special record in the act, which allows one junior high school to become a secondary school. That's the best proof of that. If the minister who is responsible for junior high school leaves only one in Poland, his junior high school, in order to make a special entrance in the act, this is the best proof that this whole reform is bad for the whole of Poland, and the minister creates a gate only to make a good junior high school, some in Poland even say that the best junior high school is to save. I ask for a break so that Marshal Brudziński, a close colleague of Minister Kopcia, can inform us of what other Members can do to be on this list, so that other children can also stay in middle school... [[Something's wrong with you.]] ...and not just kids from one middle school in Szczecin. On behalf of all these parents from this middle school, thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You didn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u8	Thank you very much, sir, especially for stressing that there are very good schools in Szczecin. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Junior high! Junior high!]] Junior high is also a school, Member. I am pleased that Mr Nitras' daughter also attends one of the best junior high schools. [[If you lived in Szczecin, your children could go there, too.]] Mr Nitras, I would like to inform you that the formal proposals can only concern matters on the agenda and the course of the meeting. I hope, High Izbo, that we can now move on to item 1. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Senate draft law on amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those oppressed for political reasons and some other laws (prints Nos 936 and 1557). I ask Mr Janusz Sniadek to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u9	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I do not hide that it is also with deep personal satisfaction that I am honoured today and honoured to present to the High House a report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the work of the Senate bill amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons and some other laws, print No. 936. The Sejm shall meet at its 29th meeting on 4 November in accordance with Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 etc. addressed this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family for consideration. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy at two meetings on 23 February and 24 May considered this proposal and asked the High House to approve the attached draft. From the obligation, at the request of the applicant, to inform you that three minority applications have been submitted. They were all rejected by the committee. It is also my duty to inform you that the very many representatives of opposition organisations present during the committee's work have submitted to the Platform, which has had many, many years to sort these matters out according to their expectation that today the unnecessary proposals will not prolong the procedure for this law. Once again, I move to the High House for the most urgent adoption of the attached bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u10	Thank you very much, sir. I have the great honor and pleasure to inform the High House that our deliberations are being listened to by ladies who were interned in Gołdapi, among others. together with Ewa Tomaszewska. Welcome, ladies. [[Some Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice stand up, applause]] The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Janusz Śniadek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u11	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Once again, I would like to stress with great satisfaction, because of the years we have been seeking this kind of solution, that I have the honour to present to you the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the Law on Stricted and Repressed Act of Acting Solidarity, print No. 936. The history of treatments for such a solution is very long. For years I quoted these words of the song - Raper Tadek sang it - about the heroes living in Poland in poverty and about their tormentors receiving high pensions. This situation is slowly ending. Free Poland slowly ceases to be an evil, unjust mother to its children. The Association of Dignity also wrote in its opinion addressed to our committee on the Law of May 25 that opposition activists were disappointed with it. Why? Simple statistics. Well, it's about 2.3,000. the persons entitled, at the moment having the status of a person being repressed, only a little over 300 receive this benefit. Why? Due to the extremely strict income criteria contained in that Law. I say, that is only about a tenth of the people with this status, hence the widespread dissatisfaction with that solution and the general demand that this benefit be of dignity. And so no money is able to compensate these people for the losses and costs they have incurred in their lives because of their activities, they will not return to lost time. Therefore, it is called for this benefit to be purely dignified, without income criteria. This consensus has been achieved, there is the government's agreement to it, and at the moment in the project this benefit will amount to PLN 402,70, will be exactly equal to the addition to the combatant. It is slightly lower than what was expected by the environment, while they have accepted the justification that this benefit cannot be higher than the kombatanic supplement. I will not naturally develop and justify this. What was, which was a big problem when this law was passed in such a dignity criterion, was a matter of respect for costs, because estimates of the number of eligible persons are very different: from 60 thousand, according to the authors of the Solidarity Encyclopedia, to about 30 thousand. administered by IPN and significantly lower, which define the environments concerned. In fact, in the near future, it will be clear what the actual number of eligible persons will be who will obtain this status in the Office for Combatants and Persons Repressed after verification by the IPN, but I can say with all responsibility that this right, this benefit will not burden the state budget, will not burden citizens, because in parallel, almost symmetrically as of 1 October, the debubecisation law enters into force, a law which has led us, for the first time in free Poland, to the situation that under the Seym there were protesters in defence of lost privileges. I have said many times that to me this is a testimony that we are finally starting to live in a free country, since ubecja - there has been ubecja, I apologize - has reasons for protesting. [[Applause]] Certainly these savings, which will result from the cessation of payment of unauthorised privileges, high pensions - have been brought to the average pension rate, the average benefits charged by all Poles - will fully cover the costs resulting from this benefit paid to veterans. Finally, I would like to inform you that a very symbolic date for the entry into force of the Act was adopted - 31 August this year. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Law and Justice will vote in favour of this law, which I bring to the entire High House. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u12	Thank you, sir. And Mrs Henryka Krzywonos-Strycharska, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u13	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate's draft law amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons and some other laws contains, in principle, positive provisions that correct the existing state of affairs, but also contains worrying changes that this law is about to introduce. It is positive to correct the rules already in force that anti-communist opposition activists from the vending machine will receive an unlimited allowance, not for a period of usually 1 year, if they fulfil many factors. They will therefore be treated autonomously, not as if they were going to apply for social allowances. Communication, health, cultural, educational and housing facilities also have a positive reception. However, it should be pointed out that the introduction of facilities will be imposed on local governments and there are no provisions to provide additional funding for these purposes. According to the Act, the legitimacy and badge of the opposition activist will be granted ex officio after granting the status of opposition activist. This provision will eliminate unnecessary bureaucracy because opposition activists will not have to submit a separate proposal. It is only a pity that the Senate rejected with the votes of the Senators the offer of half of the benefit after the death of the person entitled to the spouses, who often incurred the costs of the opposition activity of the husband or wife. However, the provisions concerning the election of the Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons are worrying. The Head shall be appointed, in accordance with the proposed provisions, by the President of the Council of Ministers at the request of the Minister responsible for social security. Thus, the open competition selection is discontinued. The location of voivodship consultative councils on opposition activists and repressed persons is also doubtful. These councils are to act, in accordance with the proposed regulations, by the voivodships and not, as so far, by the management boards of the voivodships. The above-mentioned solutions raise doubts as to whether the chief and council working at the voivodships will be 100% Apolitical and fair in their actions. In conclusion, the proposed law is heading in the right direction in terms of solutions to help opposition activists in the field of aid and finance. However, there is great doubt as to whether all opposition activists will be treated equally, regardless of the political views currently presented, and whether it will not be so that the opponent will only be the one who shares the views of the current rulers. However, I hope that we will finally respect the people through whom we live today in a free country, which is part of the European Union and NATO, and without further discussion we will adopt this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u14	Thank you very much, Member. And please take the floor of Mr Józef Brynkus.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u15	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the draft law amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists in print no. 936. Ladies and gentlemen, communism destroyed Polish society materially, physically and mentally, so only some had the courage to openly oppose it. Prisons, expulsions and schools, forced military service, torture during interrogations, and brutal beatings, even ending in death, met them. And yet the opposition's actions, often lasting many years, led to the collapse of communist power. It would seem, then, that those who have taken credit in the fight against the criminal system in free Poland will be appreciated. Sadly, it was only over a quarter of a century after we regained our freedom that we remembered those to whom we owe our freedom. We have recalled in a far insufficient way, as evidenced by the flawed, imperfect and already at the time of the adoption of the criticism of the 2015 Act. It offers alms to those to whom we owe our freedom by imposing the need to apply for it. Meanwhile, communist abusers and cameramen still get high apanasia. These errors should be corrected as soon as possible. We have therefore called in recent years for compensation for the harm suffered by anti-communist opposition activists. I myself requested this in my first interpellation to the Polish government, demanding the reaction of the authorities of the Polish state to the difficult situation of life and material people deserved for Polish freedom. With regard to the proposed amendments, I would like to draw the attention of the High House to the following elements. The extension of the anti-communist period defined in the Act of 4 June 1989 until 31 July 1990 is fully justified. It was then that the Security Service was formally wound up until this point leading to permanent action against opponents - and today its former officers raise their heads hard. A spectacular example of criminal action against opponents is murder on Fr. Sylvester of Zichu, which took place after the elections on 4 June 1989. The granting of permanent witnessing to every opposition activist is a minimal and symbolic gesture of assistance and compensation for the harm he has suffered. This will eliminate the embarrassing issue of begging poor independence activists with penniless alms proposed in the current law. However, it is a pity that it is only 400 PLN. I believe that this benefit should be higher. Let me remind you that the beneficiaries of the communist system for several decades received amounts many times exceeding these symbolic 400 PLN. We cannot explain ourselves in modest ways. After all, the governing coalition constantly emphasizes the excellent state of the budget. I remind you that after Poland regained its independence in 1918, Józef Piłsudski carried out a bill in the poor and struggling with the non-election remnants of Poland under which the state gave life to former insurgents in January. Today, when Poland is in a much better economic position, the appreciation of anti-communist opposition activists should be our priority and no cost calculations should obscure this priority. One further reservation should be made, resulting from the inability of many former opponents who often struggle with bailouts. This benefit should be compulsoryly excluded from the bail-in and not included in the amount exempt from that occupation. A separate issue is the granting of special pensions to those living in difficult conditions to opposition activists and those who are being repressed. After 1989, it was not verified that such pensions were paid and only granted to people who were often associated with post-communist or circular governing teams. Undoubtedly, this form of support should be extended to those who require such assistance, in fact, deserved for Poland, which are activists of the anti-communist opposition and those who are being repressed for anti-system activities in the Polish People's Republic. Changes to the Veterans Act are also fully justified; e.g. The extension of the period of activity until 1963 seems obvious in the context of the death this year of the last soldier cursed Józef Franczak, a doll. To sum up, Kukiz15 is in favour of adopting the proposed law with the hope of immediate, true and full appreciation of anti-communist opposition activists, thanks to which we live in free Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u16	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u17	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Modern Club regarding the report of the Senate committee on the bill amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons and some other laws. First of all, I would like to thank Senator Rulewski for taking the initiative to improve the 2015 Act, because everyone in committee We saw that this law, however, did not achieve all its objectives and that in certain places it was flawed. I am very pleased that we have managed to prepare a second project, which in our view is a good solution. Of course, as Mrs Krzywonos has raised some concerns about whether the burden of helping those who are repressed will not be burdened with local governments. Here, I also wanted to address Mr Sniadek. I am surprised that the Law and Justice rejected my amendment, which was designed to ensure that all the money that would be saved as a result of a reduction in wages and pensions for former officers was transferred to this purpose. Here we see that on the one hand there is a demonstration of how generous you are... You want to charge most of the government's costs, and I don't know where the money you're going to save is going to land. My amendment was precisely for all the money to be used to help the victims of communism. It is therefore a complete lack of logic. I would also like to ask the Member not to use his words to those who served free Poland for 20 years, and for two years they served... or in senior officer schools, to say that they were former ubeks. It's just wicked that you use that phrase and throw everyone in one bag. We are in favour of stigmatizing the very negative actions of people who acted in the service, but we do not agree to treat people who served free Poland for 20 years, and only served for a few years... sometimes in units... for example in the protection of the nuclear power plant in Żarnowiec. Is that what you think they are? So you're welcome to think twice about what you're saying. We are in favour of this bill being passed. We hope that, indeed, those who have contributed to the fact that we live in a free country have been taken additional care of and have also been granted certain privileges of the veteran card. These benefits, both financial and non-financial, are owed to them as much as possible. And here we must bow down to all those who have contributed to the fact that we live in a free country. I would also like to draw attention to one thing, that we should be consistent - that since we are able to so reprimand those who have been a little hurt by fate over the years, and deserved very much Poland, it is also to emphasize their work. Their work was the election that took place on 4 June 1989. If we want to commemorate their actions with dignity, we should also not forget that on 4 June 1989 it was their work. And I would like the Law and Justice to ask for compensation for their actions, so also to appreciate what they have done and what they have led to - to free elections on 4 June 1989. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u18	Thank you. And Mr Krystian Jarubas, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u19	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the committee on the Senate draft law on amending the Act on activists of anti-communist opposition and those oppressed for political reasons and some other laws, prints no. 936 and 1557. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about a senate bill amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and people being repressed for political reasons. The assessment, ladies and gentlemen, is clear. Those who acted for free Poland, often at risk of health and life, were repressed, have the right to a decent life. This can be helped by the benefit to which all opponents are entitled without any income criteria. Unfortunately, problems arise when we go into detail. However, we do not want politics to be done again on the occasion of this law. We are concerned about the changes that concern consultative councils. In our opinion, these councils should work in the marshal of the voivodship, not in the voivodship. I remind here that the local government is elected by people, is closest to local communities, to which the opposition activists of the Polish People's Republic, which are concerned by the law, are undoubtedly among them. I don't understand why the party denomination of the PiS in the form of a voivode would have a decision-making vote here. This is even a kind of giggle of history, because it was the Polish People's Republic that sought the maximum centralization of power like today's PiS. I don't know, maybe the so-called one. misiorism sits so tight in the PiS that they want to influence the appointment of all officials of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. [[I was beginning to like you, Krystian.]] I don't know, Mr. Peter, I don't know. I know one thing: the voivodship government has full instruments to operate in this field. Unfortunately, under the coat of this important law, the PiS once again wants to restrict the powers of local governments and thus hit local democracy. We celebrate this and appeal to the rulers: do not follow the way of the Polish People's Republic, remembering also those who are affected by this Act today. PSL is used for opponents. At the same time, the PSL club... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Mr. Kaleta, listen to me to the end. ...will present appropriate proposals for battalions of the Battalions, hoping that in the future similar projects concerning combatants will gain the support of other political formations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u20	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mrs Margaret Zwierzan.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u21	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Opposite activists, I welcome you very cordially! The debate on the state's recognition of the merits of those who were fighting for Poland's independence began in 2000, but then the tone of this debate was given by the Gazeta Wyborcza, in which Adam Michnik wrote: "We are not veterans of solidarity, and we do not need any help, because our environment has settled well. I think he told the truth here, because the environment associated with the Gazeta Wyborcza is very well placed in the Third Republic of Poland. We know very well the mechanisms of this setting, so I won't talk about it. The Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons entered into force in the fourth quarter of 2015. The entire legislative process concerning the Act lasted for years and the final effect was far from preliminary intentions. However, the previous coalition and parliament did not change much their perception of those who fought the communist dictatorship. She could not agree to the proposals of the anti-communist opposition and the oppressed. The lack of sufficient reflection and research on the life situation of members and activists of the anti-communist opposition, members of their families, as well as ordinary citizens subjected to repression, including material ones, has led Parliament to adopt a solution based on an over-precise rule. This is a delicate term because the current law limits the possibility of granting benefits in principle only for a period of one year, taking into account the relevant income thresholds. At present, benefits are social assistance. The proposed bill meets the expectations of a large group of activists of the widely understood anti-communist opposition. In addition to changes in the granting of assistance to opposition activists and repressed persons, it amends and clarifies the definition of the person being repressed. It is also particularly important to abolish the social nature of aid to opposition activists and oppressed persons. The proposed amendment provides for the autonomous nature of the benefit granted, as stated in the Veteran Act. The scope and amount of benefits are probably not fully satisfactory, but are not compensation for the damage and losses suffered. They are a form of recognition of the status of those who fought for free Poland, regardless of the threat of repression. That's a plus and a huge advantage of the presented project. However, it cannot be accepted that those who obtain the status of anti-communist opposition activist or repressed person, after receiving the proposed financial supplement, do not have a minimum of income guaranteed at the level that we provide in the de-ubecisation law to their Catholics, i.e. at least PLN 2050 gross. I believe it is unacceptable that the oppressed do not have a minimum income guaranteed in the Act. I am talking about people who, after taking into account the additional benefits provided for in the Act in extreme cases, will receive only PLN 1100 if they have a pension, or PLN 1400 if they are retired. It's inhuman. It can't be that the executioners are still better off than the victims. I know there may not be a lot of people like that, but there are. I personally know former workers living in poverty for less than PLN 1000. It is precisely in the case of such people that we should increase the benefits to PLN 2100, i.e. to such an amount, that after receiving them the income of the oppressed persons should be increased to PLN 2100. Although symbolically they have exceeded the income guaranteed by ubekom. I hope that the absence of such a guarantee is merely an oversight of the formally prepared proposal, which is why I am making an amendment to the bill, which will correct the omission. I hope that the amendment will go to the committee and that the bill will be adopted without delay. From this point on behalf of myself and the Free and Solidarnia wheels, I would like to express my special appreciation for all those who have spared no effort in fighting for free Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u22	Thank you very much, Member. Let's get to the questions. Is any of the ladies and gentlemen of the House still interested in the question? Mr Borowczak has done well. There are no more volunteers. I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mrs Barbara Bartus. Time - one and a half minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u23	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are finishing today on a very important bill, a very important project, a very expected project. I would like to stress that we are at the end of this process. This law is important because it primarily restores dignity to those who were oppressed, to those who fought for free Poland. A lot has been said here today. An important aspect, which is the financial aspect, has been highlighted, and I would like to draw attention to the Minister's provisions on the right to health care. Often those who have been repressed, who have been interned, who have passed through health paths, have very big health problems today. Will this law ensure that these benefits will actually be given in the first place and at a higher level to the oppressed? This is how I perceive the expectations of those who very, very much expect this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u24	Thank you. Mr Stefan Rometki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u25	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The very right and fair solution is to grant a reduction of 51%. for travel by public means of communication. However, shouldn't this relief also include multiple, periodic and not just one-off journeys? In my view, the problem will only be to enforce the application, to respect this relief for certain private carriers providing public transport services. How does the applicant intend to force private operators to provide this service? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u26	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Buczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u27	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Representatives of Repressed Persons in the Communist System! Many years, too many years have passed before we finally adopted a law which is an expression of the admonition - maybe not yet as it should have been, but nevertheless - states for the due benefits, for the compensation of those who suffered, were renunciated to Poland's freedom. These people did not ask for it themselves, and finally the institutions of the state are asking for it. I have a question for the Minister: Will there be further steps - because this is the first step - that, first, the benefit which will be paid to the combatants, both to the oppressed and to the veterans in general, be higher? I think that the state budget will be able to afford it, because there aren't so many of these people. The estimates that were presented at the subcommittee meeting are estimates, maximum figures. I am convinced that the people who will receive this benefit will be much less. That's one thing. Secondly, I am convinced that the Polish State should not in this case decide the amount of the benefit, the amount of the amounts [[♪ The bell ♪]] intended for this purpose only taking into account financial issues. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u28	Thank you. And Mr Antoni Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u29	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! The Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons from 2015 did not fully meet the expectations of many opponents. By 22 July 2016, only 1386 persons were granted the status of such a person. The benefits were granted to 317 people and only 369 people received one-off assistance. From the 2016 budget, the provision for this purpose of 50 million until 30 June was spent less than 1.4 million, i.e. Okay. 2.75%. I ask the rapporteur and, at the same time, the former President of the NSZZ.Solidarity, how this amendment will affect those who live in very difficult living conditions today only because they clearly expressed their views, did not allow themselves to be enslaved and thus lost their jobs, were imprisoned and, at best, did not have a chance for professional promotion despite their qualifications. Is there a list of such people? What kind of government is that? It is high time the State ruled by law and justice fixed this injustice. I am grateful to the Senate for this initiative, and I believe that this time we will meet the expectations of many who, after all, owe us the freedom we enjoy today. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u30	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Wilk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u31	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment of this law on anti-communist opposition activists has long been expected by these activists and in the environment to be satisfied that the income criterion will finally be abolished. Some of them were slightly above this criterion and did not obtain this supplement, and it was often necessary for them, even for treatment. The reliefs that are introduced are important, while I have some comments. One is that he is wrong, Mr PSL, who said that the Kombatant councils should be located at the Marshal's offices. It is the authority of the state, the Office for Repressed Persons and the Voivodeships who represent the government in the field. [[Applause]] - this is the back room, which should be the meeting place for the advice that will be called. It's understandable and natural. On the other hand, there is one thing I would like to address and ask the rapporteur. Some local governments have already adopted resolutions on the fact that they completely exempt former opposition activists from their fees on the basis of their legitimacy. Others, as in Elbląg, are preparing appropriate resolutions. Shouldn't this be considered - because there are several, often a dozen, opposition activists on the scale of individual cities who would benefit from these reliefs - to completely release them [[♪ The bell ♪]] With a collective communications fee? It would be an important thing for these activists. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u32	Thank you. And Mr Antoni the Man. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ease this dispute in connection with the transfer of consultative councils, which operate in the marshals or regional governments, to the voivodeship and therefore I would like to ask you a question. The importance and importance of consultative councils as a result of these changes which are being carried out here will not be reduced because of the fact that in the paragraph. 4. 15 has not changed, there are tasks for consultative councils and, for example, for the general benefit of point 1 and point 4 will probably be irrelevant - the opinion sent to the head of proposals? The second point is also the analysis of the situation of activists: because it will be done by a machine, the benefit of 400 PLN will be widespread and the advice will no longer be done. These tasks will be only for these additional one-off payments or special pensions. That's why I think we should quiet it down because this bill is going through in a good shape. Here we must thank the President because these are budget expenditures that the governing party club has decided to do so, and it is widely praised here. But we also need to mention both the initiators of the first law on combatants, [[♪ The bell ♪]] i.e. Marshal Jan Wyrowiński and Senator Jan Rulewski, as well as the Senate, who initiated this amendment, because this amendment is going in a very good direction. I know it doesn't meet all opposition expectations. Jan Rulewski is very strongly criticized, especially in his environment in Bydgoszcz, but he seems to have made the most of his efforts and put the greatest effort into making this law in this form, of course outside the subcommittee, which has developed a very good project. Thank you very much on behalf of all the repressed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u34	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Szulowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u35	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Like my previous speakers, I must say that the objectives of the anti-communist opposition activists law and those repressed for political reasons have not been achieved, which requires correction. This is demonstrated, for example, by the fact that only 2,75% of the politically repressed persons were issued from the envelope foreseen for the payment of cash benefits to entitled persons, anti-communist opposition activists and politically repressed persons. the amounts of the reserve for this purpose. This was expected to affect thousands of people, ended up with a few hundred people. The project assumes that the cash benefit should be granted at the current amount, but without delay and regardless of the income of the entitled person. There will also be other reliefs. That's a good proposition. Personally, I hope that they will be able to use them, among others. people repressed after strikes at the beginning of martial law in Zakłady Azotowe in Puławy, which repeatedly signaled, including me, such a need. On the other hand, my question concerns the status of an anti-communist opposition activist, because such questions are also addressed. On the basis of what evidence can the opposition activist's ID and badge be obtained? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u36	Thank you. And Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u37	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Opponents! I am very pleased that in the Polish Parliament we have a draft Senate Act on amending the Act on activists of anti-communist opposition. All I can tell you is that it was very expected by you. I am aware that no money can compensate you for what you have experienced in communist times, as Mr Janusz Śniadek said beautifully. But I have a question: Will the service of dignity, because this is the nature of the witnessing, be easy to admit and include all anti-communist activists and will the next steps be taken? Because I am aware that this does not fully compensate for what you have done for free Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u38	Thank you very much. And Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u39	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 28 years had to be waited for a law that, in a modest, let's face it, in a very modest way tries to make amends to those who, in difficult times, have shown courage and civic responsibility for the state and nation. And here is a question for the rapporteur, or maybe it is a question for all of us or for many of us. Why did it take 28 years to work on the necessary, though very modest, compensation for those to whom we all owe so much, and whose vast majority have already gone to a better world? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u40	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Nitras, I would like to ask you a question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u41	Despite the small remarks about which, in a moment's time, it is necessary to make clear from this speaker that no gold from public money, i.e. our common money, spent to make amends to those repressed during the communist period is lost and is a zloty spent well by our society. This is what should be praised, this range of aid is increasing. And now what you can't do. First of all, you must not, and no one has ever done so, to use a certain legend, a certain achievement for the current policy. You can't say the truth from this speaker. It must not be said that this is the first time that this is the first law, as before you, gentlemen of the PiS, there was nothing in Poland, because it is simply not true, you are simply lying and using people being repressed to lie from the Parliamentary Speaker. I can't imagine anything more disgraceful. That's one thing. Secondly, you must not lie by forgetting the authors of this bill. This was mentioned in front of me by Mr Mendło. You say it as if it were your bill, and you took the project of Senator Rulewski, who was still working on it in the previous term and passed the bill, now he has improved the bill, and the only contribution you make is a bad contribution, that is to say, that you restrict the role of advice and take the powers of the Sejm, give to the voivode. This is the only piece of work you've done and the only contribution you've made. [[We're gonna settle this!]] And last but not least, I think it's the most important thing. We'd like to feel that you won't. [[♪ The bell ♪]] treat this instrumentally. When you give full competence to a man whose substantive contribution to free Poland is that he is the creator of the Smolensk monthlys on which he lies, lies and only lies, we fear that you will actually use it, this instrument, to divide people from the anti-communist opposition into those who share your views today, and those who do not share your views.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u42	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u43	If you do, history will judge you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u44	Please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Porwich, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u45	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I will not talk about the appropriateness of improving the provisions of the 2015 Act, because it is obvious. The direction of change goes in the right direction, of course, but in my opinion it is not good enough, so let's not get caught up in ourselves. As of June 5th this year. The anti-communist opposition activist had only 2683 people. In the whole of 2016, only 3259 thousand were allocated to the payment of the cash benefit and the cash aid. zł. This isn't some kind of horrendous amount, you'll admit. Even if the availability of these benefits increases, it will not be really big money. In this connection, I ask the question: Why do we accept with these changes, i.e. the transfer of only PLN 400, in fact the situation that Mr Zwierzan was saying that anti-communist opposition activists will often, and even often, receive less benefits than security officers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u46	Thank you. And Mr Jerzy Borowczak, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u47	Thank you, Marshal. I want to thank Janusz Sniadek for taking this initiative. We worked on such a bill in the previous term with Sławek Piechota, with Janek Wyrowiński and we counted on the budget, we were counting on how far we could go with this help for the oppressed. Of course, we meant those who could not cope in the new Poland, who live in terrible conditions, but we also talked about those who... Poland did not forget about us, because only by 2008 it paid PLN 1.5 billion for damages. Today there are about 3 billion of these benefits, which our colleagues have received, so to speak, received. But this bill, which we talked about, is for those people who don't have lawyers, they don't have, so to speak, knowledge where they can go and get that kind of help. I think the Minister has the knowledge that money is being spent on our colleagues who have suffered health damage during the fight against communism. Once again, I would like to thank you for this bill, because I think it is very necessary, because today many of our colleagues are in a very, very bad situation and this law will certainly help them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u48	Thank you very much, sir. And please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Minister Marcin Zielenecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you for your constructive cooperation, for your participation in the work on today's Senate bill on amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those who are being repressed. I would like to thank the Senate for bringing forward an appropriate legislative initiative. I would also like to say on this occasion that this project, which came out of the Senate, could be said to have been substantially modified. It must be borne in mind that in the original version, which was notified by Senator Rulewski, this project contained income criteria, increased but profit criteria. I would also like to thank and properly congratulate the rapporteur, Janusz Śniadek, for the fact that this project, as it is under discussion today, required a lot of efficiency. It is a project, one can say, compromise, taking into account different types of values and directions. I would like to say that the most important merit is that we have managed to develop solutions that have eliminated this income criterion. This was a solution that was called for and strongly emphasised during the work in committee, the subcommittee by the environments representing people who were in the past activists of the anti-communist opposition or those who were repressed. I would also like to thank all parliamentary clubs for their very clear support for this project. As regards the question raised in the course of the discussion, the first question concerned changes in the use of health services by persons who will obtain the status of anti-communist opposition activist or repressed person. Indeed, this project contains changes in this area, i.e. changes of two kinds. First of all, it is about granting the right to benefit from public-funded health benefits as a priority, first of all. This is a solution that works, works for veterans, and this solution is also proposed here. Secondly, such a solution is quite important to create the possibility for persons to benefit from specialized services, without having to receive primary healthcare from a doctor. On further issues, several questions concerned the right to free and reduced travel by public transport. It can be said that the solution found in the project assumes that local governments will still be able to make independent, sovereign decisions on the introduction of free or reduced journeys by means of local communication. Many local governments have adopted such resolutions. I would like to thank the local governments, city presidents, uncles and mayors for this kind of support. Several questions related to possible further steps. It has been pointed out that we are actually talking about the first step, but it is worth considering further changes in this area. So what I want to say is that the fundamental or fundamental objective that we want to achieve by implementing this law is the possibility of counting, in short, those who meet the conditions for becoming an anti-communist opposition activist or a repressed person. Today's solutions did not actually encourage us to apply for the right status. And these figures, which appeared here during the discussion, are about 2500 people who have obtained such status so far, show that these solutions, which have so far been in force, firstly, are not satisfactory, and secondly, it is not, can be said, in this type of solutions, even a closer estimate of the number of people who meet the conditions for obtaining such status can be said. So we're hoping that this subtraction, the elimination of the income criterion with the right to benefit, will simply increase the interest of this benefit environment, while at the same time allowing, in a nutshell, to determine the number of people. Mr President pointed out that the estimates were very different - from 30 to 60 thousand. persons. I think that such further steps will be possible when this condition is met. There have been questions about the formal side, what will be the procedure for applying for the status of anti-communist opposition activist. In general, it can be said that the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure, including the provisions on evidence used in these proceedings, will apply in this respect. The position of President of the Institute of National Remembrance, which will issue opinions under this procedure, will be very important evidence. On the other hand, it will be a condition for such status to be granted by the President of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. I think these are the answers to most of the questions that have been asked in the discussion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u50	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like the floor of the rapporteur for the committee of Janusz Sniadek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u51	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I'm just gonna take a short look at these most important things. I'd like to make it sound really strong again. I have already mentioned this amount of benefit - PLN 402,70 at the moment. This is exactly the height, the dimension of the mattress supplement. I don't think I need to further justify that if a different amount were granted here for those who are being repressed, it would be socially difficult to defend, it is about social perception. And I will admit that I was very much built up to accept this argument and to acknowledge these rights by the environment of those who are being repressed, and not to raise this issue again in the course of the discussion on the recognition of these rights. As far as the doubts that I share about the difficult material situation of many people with this status are concerned, I am also in a hurry to explain, and these were our talks, the agreement with the head of the Veterans' Office, that there are both measures and some possibilities in terms of emergency or longer aid for those who have the status to assist by the Veterans' Office, but this will already be individual aid, precisely targeted, responding to these difficult cases, several times today signalled from the speaker. That's what I wanted to emphasize. And in general, here I will repeat after the Minister, this law, with great uncertainty about estimates, was difficult and only after a certain monitoring period, perhaps after a year and a half, will we return to it, with greater awareness of the costs, we will take further action, if possible, to meet these expectations. Let me also refer to one thing, one statement - here the author of these words has already come out - when I was accused that using the concept of former bubeks, I am failing some environment. Well, I would like to stress that both in this dehubian act and in the law that is currently being discussed, the IPN established a category of people, environments. And I would like to say that for me, the argument or claim that people who in the second half of the 1980s, in the end period of the Polish People's Republic, decided on their professional future in connection with the work in these institutions, can be regarded as morally correct persons, raises great doubts and define them as former officers, will surely give them the truth, nothing fails them, or if it fails, only to the extent that it arouses association with the past. At that time they decided for cyclical reasons to enter the system, to exercise the privileges, privileges and privileges of those services. And today, references to this cannot in any way be perceived as malicious or as political taking away from them, I don't know, a good name. These were facts, they were their life choices, just like the life choices of many of us, many veterans were, risking their normal functioning, bearing victims, fighting for free Poland. They decided then to establish the Polish People's Republic. I have a right to speak of this, and I have an obligation to emphasise the achievements of this environment, to which today we want to pay tribute to this service of dignity. Once again, I stress: we have decided to provide dignity, symbolical, recognition, leaning our heads through free Poland. Question Ms Hrynkiewicz: Why wait 28 years? I ask myself the same question, why it took so many years for free Poland to start implementing the program, the ideals of August, modernized. It took another revolution on the 35th anniversary, in 2015 at the polls, only this revolution so many years later made it possible to implement this programme. [[Applause]] And with some delay, we are giving a dignified witness to the oppressed and the persecuted, which I am very happy about. Once again, in front of the ladies on the balcony, [[Applause]] I am pleased that we will adopt this law, that it will enter into force on 31 August this year. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u52	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the National Judicial Council and certain other laws (prints Nos 1423 and 1555). I ask Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government bill amending the Act on the National Judicial Council and some other laws, print No 1423. At its 39th meeting on 7 April 2017, the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after considering this draft law at its meetings on 9 and 23 May 2017, requests the Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. It is worth noting that the committee of justice worked on this project for quite a long time, because on 9 May almost 9 hours, on 23 May - more than 7 hours. During the committee's work there was an unfettered discussion, all those who wanted to speak and speak as many times as they thought appropriate. All stakeholders, in particular judicial associations, representatives of different legal backgrounds, the Helsinki Foundation and other organisations that have notified the accession, participated in the meeting. All of these organisations, all of them, participated in the meeting. He was also, as I recall, a representative of the Ombudsman. A number of minority proposals were submitted during the discussion. As I said, the committee is asking the Sejm to accept the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u54	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Once again, I ask the floor of Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz, this time on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law on the amendment of the Act on the National Judicial Council and some other laws really arouses great political emotions, arouses emotions in the judicial environments, in the legal environments. This is completely understandable because these environments are interested in maintaining the existing situation as regards the judiciary. In particular, it is worth noting that the National Judicial Council is not a judicial authority. It's worth noting for starters. In accordance with the Article. The 175th Constitution of Justice in the Republic of Poland is governed by the Supreme Court, common courts, administrative courts and military courts. Therefore, it is clear from this provision that the National Judicial Council is not a judicial authority. It is also important to stress that it is the ordinary legislator who has been empowered by the Constitution to define the system, scope and mode of work of the National Courts Council, as well as the way in which its members are selected. This is expressly provided for in Article. 187 constitutions. This is indeed a far-reaching constitutional right. I don't think I've come across another place of the constitution to allow the constitution to define the body of the National Judicial Council. Here we are dealing with this authority to determine the system. Using this mandate, the project introduces a new system of the National Judicial Council, creating a first assembly and a second assembly. Why does that serve? It must be said that under the Constitution, the National Judicial Council has very important competences. She is the only authority that can apply to the President for a judge's nomination at all levels of the judiciary. It's a far-reaching authority, no other authority has such powers. At the same time, the majority - one can even say that a very large majority - have judges in the National Courts Council. On 25 members of the National Judicial Board, 15 of them are judges plus the first President of the Supreme Court and the President of the Supreme Administrative Court. So, if we look at this, there are 17 judges on the 25 members of the National Judicial Council. The remaining members are 4 Members, 2 Senators, Minister for Justice. It follows that this remaining group of members is in a definite minority, their voice simply does not matter and does not matter at all. The judges have the power to vote every resolution on the National Judicial Council. I don't think that's what the constitution provided for. The idea was that, in fact, a consensus should be drawn up within the National Council of Courts, and some agreement should be drawn up. Hence representatives of various institutions. This is not the case, however, because since it has been realized that the judges have the majority, they impose a tone on the work. So in a simple way, it can be said that in Poland, the judges decide who will become a judge. Thus nowhere in Europe in the cases I know is. In particular, it is worth recalling that in some European countries, there is no National Judicial Council and no one there says that democracy is at risk for this. No one's saying that the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges are at stake. This is not enough, in some countries, in particular Austria, [[♪ The bell ♪]] in Germany, the Federal Minister of Justice, in the Netherlands, the Minister of Justice, has applied for the appointment of a judge, and there no one raises the threshold that the legislative authority and executive authority are interfering with the justice system. In Poland, great powers of the judicial community and a continuous charge of interference by the legislative authority and the executive authority. It is only worth recalling in password that according to the article. The 4th constitution is a nation's sovereign power. If the nation can fulfil this function through its representatives with regard to the first two authorities, then there is no mechanism with regard to the third power, to the justice system. There is no instrument so far that the nation can exercise its sovereignty. This situation needs to be changed and this project changes this situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u56	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u57	It also restores power to the superior nation over the justice system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u58	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Robert Kropiwnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Recently, on 4 June, we celebrated the day of Polish freedom, the anniversary of the end of communism in Poland, and today, 7 June, and tomorrow, 8 June, are the black days of the Polish judiciary, these are the days when you destroy the Polish judiciary, these are the days when you want to politicize the Polish judiciary, you want to subdue the judiciary to politicians. Even in the Polish People's Republic, even the rulers of the Polish People's Republic did not have the power you wish to give yourselves. This is reprehensible. You can't step on a constitution like you do. You're destroying the independence of the National Judicial Council. You are tearing out the heart of the independence of the Polish judiciary. You're destroying an organ that, by virtue of the Constitution, is supposed to protect the independence and independence of the judge. And you're stepping on it. You're trampling on the constitution that the people adopted in the referendum. Our predecessors in this House have agreed at the National Assembly that the judicial authority is a separate authority, that it must be clearly separated from the legislative authority and the executive authority. You're ruining it. You're saying the nation is ruling. It shall be carried out in accordance with Article. Four, but the Seym is not a nation. The Sejm is a representative of the nation, but to carry out legislative functions, not to change the constitution. This law really changes the Constitution. This is unacceptable. The Sejm is not a superior authority - you are mistaken. What else is a nation that exercises sovereignty, and what else is the Sejm. The Seym is not a superior authority, and you must make it clear to yourselves. The Seym can't do everything. The Constitution clearly speaks of the three divisions of power. Power is and must be divided so that the rights and freedoms of the Constitution can be enforced. If the judicial authority is not an independent authority, there will be no instruments for enforcing the rights and freedoms we have guaranteed in the Constitution, for which the people clearly wanted them to be effectively enforced to be effectively respected by the legislative authority and the executive authority. You're throwing all this away because you want to influence the judiciary. This project changes the constitution in several respects, primarily shortens the term of the constitutional body. If you shorten the constitutional term of office once, you can imagine that the President's term of office will be shortened. Why not? It is also written that the term of office of the President lasts 5 years and that the term of office of the National Judicial Council lasts 4 years, elected members, i.e. it is an individual term of office. And you, once, want to make it a joint term, two, you want to shorten it against the constitution. The Constitution clearly states that the Sejm elects four Members to the National Judicial Council, the Sejm does not elect 19 members. If the Constitutional legislature so wanted, he would clearly write this: The Sejm elects four Members and 15 Judges, and it is written that it elects four Members, i.e. judges choose other bodies, in understanding. This was the tradition already in 1995, 1996, 1997 that judges were elected, after all, the National Court Council was founded much earlier than the Constitution. And this tradition was accepted by Parliament, by the parliamentary assembly and by the people in a referendum. You turn it over because you want to politicize the judiciary, you want to have your own judges, you want to have your own courts presidents, you want to influence the courts' directors, and you want to influence those who present the judges' candidacy. This is unacceptable. You think the judges are making bad decisions today, and you think that when you put your Misiewiczs, their candidates, into the National Council of Courts, they will obey you. It's a constitutional demolishment. This must not be allowed to destroy Polish democracy and the Polish judiciary, because the achievements of the independent Polish judiciary are valued by Poles and valued in the European world. And you think that if you have low support as a politician as a legislative authority, you have to destroy the judicial authority, which has much higher support. This is a harmful project and that is why we are applying for its rejection in its entirety. And if the motion for rejection does not pass, then we make, we will make amendments, which maybe at least in part [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're gonna save this unconstitutional project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u60	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Jachnik.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u61	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In contrast to Mr Kropiwnicki, it must be stated that changes to the National Council of Courts are necessary, the question is only how they are carried out. I do not agree with Mr Piotrowicz's position that the project was conducted in such a way as to allow free work in committee. Well, anyone could talk, but in advance it was known what the finale would be. It is impossible, ladies and gentlemen, for me to say this before, as serious acts in committees as they are being carried out, so that we have amendments to the amendments, amendments to the amendments, and that no one knows what they are voting for and how they are voting for. I will then say this: on the project concerning the National Judicial Council, there is still no social factor involved. I still have a question for you and I ask every bill, and I will also ask in the act about the system of common courts, what is the public's participation in the administration of justice. Well, a little illusory, by choosing a new council, including politicians. I also draw attention to the fact that this is not acceptable at the moment in the light of the Constitution that the OSCE indicated that there should be a social body in the National Judicial Council - a body that is not there, was not and, as you can see, will not be. And once again I appeal to Mr Piotowicz, because we are too serious a bill for the mother's law, the basic law that we are amending, to be thrown on the wall by means of a projector so that Members know what we are talking about, because no one is able to follow the 200-page law, and yet amendments to the amendments and subsequent amendments. Mr Sanocki, you were well aware of the proposal made by Mr Sanocki, and you were... You put him in a funny situation: watch the iPad. Such procession in the Seym is unacceptable, that's why such acts of monsters come out of the Seym. I do not know how you have for so many years, especially those Members who have been Members for more years, accept such a system of work. Minister! Well, I'd like to change the National Judicial Council bill, and our club, too, but not in a way that would create a party law. It's indecent even to have the Attorney General in charge, practically, and the judges, and the National Judicial Council, and the bailiffs. These are things that bite. As far as bailiffs are concerned, I'm still able to digest it, but as far as judges are concerned, judicial independence... The judge who falls under the authority of the minister, but at the same time the Attorney General - it bites, it bites completely with independence. At the same time, we know very well that this independence of the judge does not really exist, in fact it is simply at the moment that the ruling party reflects the justice system from the hands of another party. That's actually what it looks like. The Kukiz Club15 will make two amendments to the proposed law in this situation. It is about the composition of the National Judicial Council being elected by the Sejm, but by a majority of 3/5 or 2/3 of the votes. On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I would like to make these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u62	Thank you very much, sir. And please take the floor of Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I agree with Jarosław Kaczyński, with one of his statements in 1989. It was in 1989 that, during the round table and its teams, a clear demand was made to depart from the model of uniformity of the state authority, a model which today again introduces a law on the stubbornness of the National Judicial Council. It was clear to the opposition that the threefold division of power is the basis of every democracy. Dr. Jarosław Kaczyński talked about the principle of unity of state authority, and thus also about submission of the judiciary to the government and party, during the meeting of one of the subtables he said: It was a principle, however, very strongly connected with this, hopefully, already going era. This was the principle of the system existing in Poland in the last 40 years. It was just part of Stalin's theory of law and state, from which we should leave in all areas. High Izbo! The Act on Stubbornness of the KRS introduces dictatorial standards of unity of state authority, which Mr Jarosław Kaczyński so rightly in 1989 he criticized. The impulse to create an independent National Judicial Council was given by democratic opposition in 1989, not by the communist regime. The democratic opposition has made it clear that the National Judicial Council should include judges elected by the judicial community. This was the guarantee that the independence of the judiciary would be restored within the framework of the democratic threefold division of the authorities. The bill proposed by PiS ruins this independence and will not help the arguments that communist judges are still working in courts because it has been almost 30 years. The overwhelming majority of judges who were professionally active in 1989 have been retired for a long time. The current courts are the courts of free and democratic Poland, and the law on KRS are storms. High Izbo! The amendment tabled by the government allowing candidates to be submitted to the National Courts of Justice, while maintaining the possibility for politicians to submit final candidates, i.e. by a group of 50 Members or the Sejm Bureau, is like powdering reality. It won't do any good. This amendment does not bring anything, because politicians will continue to elect judges in the end, and they will still be able to make this choice only from among the persons they designate. The appointment of a judge will continue to be subject to political assessments in the Sejm and not to a substantive evaluation by other judges. The judge will still have to seek political votes. You're creating a system that assumes the jurisdiction of the judges of the parliamentary majority, the ruling party, the PiS. High Izbo! It is also worth noting that, following the amendments of candidates for candidates to the National Council of Courts, they will be able to report associations of prosecutors and groups of at least 20 prosecutors. So what if the judges, the lawyers, the lawyers, the candidates for the candidates? In fact, only those who have been reported by prosecutors who act in accordance with Minister Ziobra's orders will be considered. Then these candidates will be picked up by the Bureau, where PiS dominates, or 50 members of the PIS and will be elected by a simple majority to the KRS. At each stage of this process, the PiS will keep his hand in the composition of the KRS. High Izbo! As a result of the Act on the National Judicial Council, no court will act more efficiently. The only effect of this law will be to change the judicial chain into a party dependency chain. Therefore, on behalf of the Poselski Club Modern motion to reject this law at second reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u64	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Pasyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Gentlemen of Ministers! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party to present our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on the National Council of Courts and some other laws. To begin with, I would like to disagree with the words that Mr Peterowicz said here a few minutes ago, which, using such a shortcut of thought, said something like that, that the National Judicial Council should have the primary supervision of sovereigns. Only, sir, if we go from this general course of your thinking to simple math and make a simple calculation: 40% , forty-seven percent of Poles went to the elections, thirty-seven of them voted for your political environment, and this sovereign is about a dozen percent of citizens. And now the question is: Do you pay back a dozen percent - today, in this arithmetic - of citizens' practically more influence on the National Council of Courts, more broadly, on the Polish judiciary? This is the way of thinking, which seems to lead completely astray, and it is not true that this statement was made by you. It is true that the Polish judiciary, including the National Judicial Council, needs to be changed. We all feel that there is such a social expectation, articulated by authorities, by social organizations, and also, I think, by a part of the environment. And the question is, can we really not afford a better project for these changes? I think that the project that you rejected at first reading - the parliamentary project prepared by the largest association of judges, which is the association of Justitia - gives a positive answer to this question. It is possible to work on a better project, which in a non-fiction, artificial way, but true to a greater extent would affect sovereigns, Poles and Poles, the judiciary, the functioning of the judiciary and - what is most important in this case, what is also worth emphasising in order to improve communication with Poles - the National Judicial Council, the body, the constitutional body, which has a fundamental influence on who will be the judge determining the dispute, if such a need arises from Poles and Poles. This project has shown that it is possible. It's too bad. It's too bad. It's too bad. Today, it must be stated that you did not benefit from this proposal, coming from the very community of judges, quickly dealing with a project that has shown that it is not true... Very often this thesis - listening to the Minister... He showed that it is not true that the judge's environment wants to preserve the status quo when it comes to the environment and its regulations. This parliamentary project prepared by Justitia showed nothing less, but that there is openness of the environment to work on it. It is a pity that this did not happen, because what we are talking about today is not just a KRS - a question perhaps far away for most Poles absorbed today by something completely different. This is a discussion about whether in dispute with the state, its agendas, its offices Polish and Poles will have in the future, in a month, a year, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Five years, an opportunity for an objective arbitrage, or they'll be the arbitrators you might wish for: submission and dependence. This means that the Polish People's Party does not see the possibility of supporting this project and also requests that it be rejected at second reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u66	Thank you, sir. Before I ask Mr Protasiewicz, I would like to inform the High House that we are being heard by a group of young people together with the school counselors from the Upper School Group. Young people and carers are here at the invitation of Mr Mieczysław Mizga. We greet the young people warmly. And please take the floor of Mr Jack Protasiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u67	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Way of Youth! Already since the first debate that took place in this House at the first reading submitted by the PiS Members represented by Mr Piotrowicz, a proposal to amend the Act on the National Judicial Council... [[This is a government project. Government project.]] This is a government project, sir. Anyway, by the government of law and justice. ...we have been paying attention to the many reservations that this project raises. In particular, we focused on two elements. These are the procedure for selecting members of the National Judicial Council, especially those who are to represent the judicial environment, and the issue of shortening - violent, sudden, in our opinion - the term of office of the currently elected members of the National Judicial Council. Both in that time and in today's debate we heard from Mr Peterowicz, who represents the committee in this matter, but also the Law and Justice, and thus in a sense also the authors, i.e. the government, the lame ones, so it is called - the lame ones, the twisted ones, to a large extent false ones - arguments, especially those concerning the procedure for appointing members of the National Judicial Council. Mr Piotrowicz, giving examples of some European countries, focuses on the finals, not to mention the procedure for recommending these candidates. It is best to reach out to objective sources, to institutions that investigate the rule of law, to respect human rights throughout Europe, in all Member States. This is not the European Union where the Government of Law and Justice hangs dogs and with which it has been at war for a long time. It is the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, its office for democratic institutions and human rights, which, by the way, is located in Poland, so it is very close to our debate. What does this office say? The conclusions of the opinion, which was formulated in March, not so long ago, on a draft drawn up by the government, say: As a rule, judicial authorities, such as judicial councils, are necessary to support and guarantee the independence of the judicial authority in a given country, so they should be independent and impartial. The approach adopted in the draft law, in which the implementation of the procedure for appointing members of the National Council of Courts is left primarily to the other two authorities, i.e. executive and/or legislative, increases the influence of those authorities on the judiciary and thus threatens its independence guaranteed by Article. 173 constitutions. In view of the above considerations, it should be noted that the proposed method of selection will also be incompatible with the recommendations on the independence of the courts drawn up under the auspices of the OSCE and the Council of Europe, which state that judges of the members of the judiciary should be elected by the judicial authority. What else does the OSCE office in Warsaw draw our attention to? He points out: It is also worth noting that in his latest final remarks on Poland of November 2016, the UN Human Rights Committee expressed some concerns about the draft law on the National Council of Judicial Affairs and the potential increase of government interference in the administration of justice. This is said by an objective, independent international organisation, also referring to a different opinion - the most objective, independent international organisation, the UN, the United Nations, on which the government of Law and Justice has recently been announced, has declared a great success, because we have entered this organisation as a permanent member of the Security Council. So we are dealing with a wretched argument and an independent opinion, which makes it clear: The procedure proposed and recommended by the Law and Justice raises serious reservations. Mrs Gasiuk-Pihowicz said that this is a return to the methods of the Polish People's Republic, to a time when there was no democracy in Poland. I agree with that opinion. And I'll tell you more. Given that the Polish People's Republic was not part of the democratic community of countries, it was not part of the European Community at that time, this project and these changes are bringing Poland out of Europe. Contrary to what you're saying, you're bringing Poland out of Europe. And this is what the Commissioner of Human Rights of the Council of Europe, who concludes in his opinion, says: For this reason, I strongly encourage the Polish Parliament to reject the proposed amendments. The Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe asks us to reject these amendments. We're going to the European one. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The opinion of the independent Commissioner for Human Rights is adapted and proposed to reject this project at second reading. You're welcome, Marshal. We are near the European Union of Democrats. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u68	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Janusz Sanocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u69	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The amount of demagogy that's being said here is just terrifying. This party thinking is losing Poland. It loses Poland that we evaluate phenomena not according to the reference to objective truth, to the public good, only Members here are directed by the party interest, narrow and can demagogically reverse the proverbial cat with the proverbial tail. Even such an intelligent Member as Mr Kropiwnicki had just given a steak of demagogy here that he encouraged me to speak. Of course, this bill is not unconstitutional. What is the concept of "jurisdiction"? What's this independence supposed to be from? Who is this independence from? [[From politics.]] Art. 4th Constitution, once again, is clear, Mr. Lawyer: The sovereignty of the Republic of Poland belongs to the nation. [[But not to the Sejm.]] But not to the judges. [[Game in the O.R.]] But not to the judges. Politicians are not excluded. Politicians in the Sejm, Members, are representatives of the nation, representatives of the nation, and may elect members of the National Judicial Council. There's no doubt about it. Only a partyly-formed mind can think differently. But that doesn't mean that this project is a project... Contrary to what Mr President says, which I cannot personally dislike as a member of the Justice Committee, unfortunately that is not true, we work badly in the Justice Committee. I am surprised that the Seym tolerates such a chaotic way of working for so many years. Laws as serious as the KRS Act, the law on the system of courts should be long prepared, should first be developed assumptions for these laws, discussed, voted out, and then only... And comprehensively all the laws. Once again, we're amending the law on the system of courts, the Penal Code we've amended several times, the code of conduct. No country can function like this. After all, someone has to read, understand and implement these laws. Of course, it is a law that goes in the right direction, because it limits the independence of the judicial community. Unfortunately, the judicial system in Poland is sick, produces pathologies, produces unfair judgments, and part of that is that judges choose themselves, also to the National Court Council. [[Game in the O.R.]] And that's a cotery. And that's a cotery. [[Game in the O.R.]] Give me a better project. Give me a better project, and don't criticize it the way you did it, Mr President. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I encourage you to do so. This is undoubtedly a step limiting this autonomy, the ill autonomy of the judicial community, which should be limited to the benefit of citizens. I hope that we will go further in these reforms. I don't know if the PiS colleagues will be able to do it in this term of office if they're going to do it in such a little bit of control over this sector, but we should move on -- give citizens the right to choose these judges. That is why I do not agree with the arguments that this is an unconstitutional act, but I think that we are in the wrong way over it, as we do over all these laws. This should be a broad public debate and citizens should have a voice here. Judges should be elected there in the general election. There is no constitutional obstacle to these 15 judges not being elected in the general election. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u70	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. Are there still Members willing to ask questions? If there isn't, I'm closing the list. Mr Szczerba is the first question to be asked. You're welcome. Time for the question - one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is a great shame. And this great shame is not a parliamentary project, as usual, it is a project of the Council of Ministers, under which Beata Szydło signed herself. She did it, knowing that she was breaking not only the constitution, but also international law. This is another step in the long-distance goal of getting Poland out of the European Union. It wipes out the eyes of the Council of Europe's astonishment, wipes out the eyes of the OSCE's astonishment, the European Commission, the UN's Human Rights Commission. Beata Szydło has signed a non-constitutional law that violates the principle of division of power and balance of power, the principle of independence of the courts and independence of the judges and the principle of cadence with regard to judges of members of the National Courts. High Izbo! It's another personnel bill. It is about subjugating the majority of the PiS to the choice of the majority of the members of the National Judicial Council - a body to uphold the independence of the courts and independence of judges. In this madness of action, seeking absolute power, submission of everything to Nowogrodzka and to the great headhunter, he alone, through a majority in the Sejm Bureau or 50 PiS Members, will have the right to report 15 judges. [[♪ The bell ♪]] as members of the National Judicial Council. Who's gonna report them is the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u72	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor, Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u73	20 prosecutors with a regular D.A. Święczkowski in charge? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u74	I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Marta Golbik.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, I am directing my words to Mr Peterowicz, who is not going to listen to me right now. Mr President, this bill is a threat. above all for citizens, for citizens' right to an independent, impartial and independent court. He said that the system, scope and mode of work of the KRS could be defined by the legislator, so he could introduce some assemblies, change composition, etc. But the exact composition is governed directly by the article. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1st Constitution. I must also refer to the words of the Member concerning the selection of compositions in other countries, because there are reports available and they can be read in detail how judges are appointed in other countries. Where did you get the data and information on political influences on the choice of courts in other countries? In Germany, Austria, Sweden, Denmark, Spain, judges are appointed by committees on which judges sit or are chosen from among the persons indicated, among others. by associations of judges. In any case, there is a judicial element, a legal element, and even a social element. And yes, Mr President, it should be because the choice of judges by the judicial community is a standard of democracy and a European standard and the politicisation of the judiciary [[♪ The bell ♪]] it should not be allowed in Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u76	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Furga, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Way of Youth! It's just a reminder. The KRS - I remind you - is an authority that protects the independence of judges and independence of judges as well. It consists of 25 members. Today, 15 judges are elected to the council by the members of the jury. The President of the Supreme Court, the President of the NSA, the Minister of Justice and the representative of the President of the Republic of Poland belong to him. Parliament elects four Members and two Senators to the National Judicial Council. Your project provides for the establishment of two chambers in the National Courts and the termination of the new term of office of its 15 judges 30 days after the entry into force. You want the Sejm to pick them. After the election, the term of office of the current council expires. Do you consider, Mr Piotrowicz, and do you? Do you think that's constitutional? We don't think so. Do you think giving as much power to one man as Minister Ziobro is safe for the state? We don't think so. You will destroy an institution to protect the independence of the courts. Have you considered that you are opening the so-called. Pandora's can, because we're about to be able to actually shorten the President's term of office? By handing the courts over to the politicians, and thus to yourselves, you are eliminating the three divisions of power, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And this, in my opinion, is the end of democracy in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u78	Thank you. And Mrs Margaret Navels, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u79	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The mandate of the current independent judges of the members of the KRS is to expire 30 days after the entry into force of the Act. This will happen early and for no reason, although the four-year term of office of the members of the National Judicial Council is protected by the Constitution. And don't tell me this bill is constitutional. The new judges to the National Courts are to be elected by a majority of the Members, namely Members of the Law and Justice. Where is the constitutional independence of the judiciary in the proposed changes? Has the consultation been carried out? Because I'm having second thoughts, because in the days of the PiS government, important bill designs are rarely consulted. This is becoming more and more rare. Mr Piotrowicz, Mr Piotrowicz, you're lying to me. You didn't convince me that after we changed this bill, we'd have independent courts. The judicial authority should be a separate, independent authority, not a legitimate political option. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u80	Mrs Zofia Czernow, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u81	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The bill raises widespread criticism. Yes, criticism, because, to a large extent, it violates the Constitution of the Republic of Poland on an unprecedented scale, also violates European standards. This must be discussed loudly and clearly in the Polish Parliament. The procedure for the selection of judges to the National Judicial Council is purely political. Implementation of this project means major international consequences, as it violates all the treaties and the Treaty of the European Union signed by Poland. Is the government aware of the consequences that Poland may face? For years Poles will pay compensation for decisions of the parliament. Unfortunately, that's how it's gonna be. Why does the government not respect the independence of the judiciary? I'm asking you to give me a fair answer to your questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u82	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u83	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the explanatory memorandum of the government project, the projectors point out that entrusting the Sejm with the powers of selection of judges to act as members of the National Courts of Justice aims to increase the degree of democratisation, i.e. the participation of citizens in the seat of the State body, the National Council of the Court of Justice. How would citizens participate in the cast of the National Courts? After all, the project does not contain any elements determining the contribution of the social factor. The project does not provide for a public hearing institution. The project does not provide for the possibility for a specific group of citizens to submit candidates. This project in no way increases the degree of democratisation in the cast of the National Judicial Council, but only increases the degree of PiS-ization of this body. By the way. We have heard many times from the mouth of representatives of Law and Justice, what a great loss for Poland was the death of President Lech Kaczyński. To be honest, I agree with that opinion because I know how important he was, how respectful he was of the law of sleep. Lech Kaczyński. I'm sure he's missing because President Lech Kaczyński It is precisely because of respect for the law that he would not allow his brother, the Prime Minister or you, Minister, to break the Constitution, to break the law and to trample democracy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u84	Mr Zbigniew Gryglas. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u85	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This law provides for the expiry of the current term of office of the National Judicial Council. This is not the first such provision in the draft laws you present. Let me remind you that such solutions have already been observed in the case of national media, such solutions have already been found in civil service laws. Many different types of bodies were extinguished in this way. But I am addressing you, sir, here we simply cannot apply this solution. We must not violate the provisions of the basic law in such an extreme way. Mr President, you do not need to be a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal to see this. After all, the term of office of that body is directly enshrined in Article. 187 constitutions. I ask you to consider and design records so that we do not face such a clear violation of our constitution. As long as this constitution exists, we must respect it. I understand you have the intention of changing this constitution. Once she's changed, of course we'll respect those records. Of course, if this change is done properly, in a democratic way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u86	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Elizabeth Stępień.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear Members! Why are you once again adopting a legislative proposal that is obviously incompatible with the Constitution? After all, the Constitution clearly regulates the composition and mode of action of the National Judicial Council, and the proposed amendment violates the provision of the Article. 187 constitutions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u88	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Lieder. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u89	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! What is the purpose of two conventions in the National Courts? Is it necessary to paralyze the work of the board in examining the assessment of candidates to serve as judges and assessors if necessary? Because these works can be paralyzed in a very simple way. It is sufficient that the representatives of the PiS would not attend the meeting and that the meeting would not be able to give an assessment of the candidate concerned. Nor will it be possible to use the procedure provided for in Article. Article 31b (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2, i.e. referrals to review and evaluation by the Council in full because the launch of this procedure depends on the evaluation and, in the situation under consideration, the evaluation by the first meeting would not have taken place at all. Why are you lying about trying to improve the council's work? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u90	Mr Arkadiusz Myrch.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Way of Youth! The representative of the applicants, Mr Piotrowicz, in a distinctive and typical way, selectively and instrumentally recalls the individual provisions of the Constitution in isolation from the whole, solely for his party and political use. Moreover, the Member undertook to interpret the will of the authors of the Constitution and the creators of the National Judicial Council themselves, claiming that it was not at all their intention for judges to choose the judicial environment. Let me remind you. [[I'm not a representative of the applicants.]] It is clear from the documents drawn up during the round table's work that it is written in black and white that it is the judges who are to elect their representatives. This document was signed by no one but Jarosław Kaczyński. This was the result of the experience of communist Poland. To this tradition, the state is returning to this project. You also recall the European models for the election of judges and the role of Minister of Justice in this respect. Just remind the High House and the Poles listening to us, or in any country of the European Union, the Minister of Justice is at the same time the head of all prosecutors in the country and an active politician. You also forget that in all those models you mentioned, the judge's environment has a key and greatest impact on [[♪ The bell ♪]] the selection of its representatives to the equivalent of the National Judicial Council. Don't lie to me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u92	Mrs Monica Rosa.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Any subsequent attempt on the judiciary in Poland, any further attempt to stubbornly stubbornly this judiciary is translated by its improvement, improvement of its functioning and such a greater amount of friendship for the citizen. Hence my question. Since the beginning of Minister Ziobra's reign, more than 500 judicial vacancies have not been filled. Why, then, were the appointments of the judges suspended and what is the substantive reason behind this, and was it not by chance such that these appointments were deliberately suspended, so that you would have time to rescind the Act on the National Judicial Council? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u94	Mr Michał Stasiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u95	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Based on the content of the justification of this project, as a result of the analysis you present there, we can conclude that in 32 cases you pass, gently speaking, with the truth. Due to a small amount of time, I can only refer to two cases. Namely, you claim that for more than a quarter of a century of the functioning of the National Judicial Council there were only two judges of the regional courts. I would like to ask: Is the fact of sitting in such an organ of judges of the courts of review, as you yourself have called for in the draft of your own constitution, a plus or a minus of the current solution? I also have a question: Is there a professional path for judges who, with regard to the judge of the district court, eliminates the need to sit in the district court for many, many years and practice where, as you say, experience and basic knowledge is acquired? I don't think there's a judge in the district court - and you'll agree with me - who hasn't sat in the district court before. Therefore, this argument is completely missed. The election of the members of the council was decided in practice by the judges' elites. That's not true either. The choice is very clear and to the KRS judges can actually nominate all the judges' environments: and the KRS, and the Supreme Court, and the NSA, and the WSA, and military courts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These environments can nominate their representatives anywhere. Therefore, these two examples show that this law and its justification are based on incorrect grounds. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u96	Thank you. The list of speakers has been exhausted. I therefore ask that the Undersecretary of State speak at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Martin Warchoł. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! These are the days of Polish freedom, these are the days when we restore the courts to citizens, Mr Kropiwnicki. [[Politicians, politicians.]] We're done with corporateism, we're done with judges. We're restoring democracy. We're restoring the three divisions of the authorities. [[Applause]] [[You're being stubborn.]] Let's imagine that any of the people in this room come in here and say we're an extraordinary caste. After all, on the same day he meets with the ostracism of his friends, his friends, not giving him a hand. In the meantime, we have heard from your mouth the president of one of the largest judicial associations: we are an extraordinary caste. And in gratitude for that, she received a thunderous applause. On the same day, if any of you had spoken those words here, his career would have ended. [[So when did you work in court, Minister?]] And what's the difference between these two situations? These two situations are precisely different from that of the nation, the authority of the citizens and the real shape of the article. Four constitutions. We are now fully giving this shape to the Polish judiciary. As far as standards are concerned, refer to these European standards. Mrs Małgorzata Golbik also referred to Germany. Member, that is not true. In Germany, the judge is appointed by the Minister of Justice of the Land - I am talking about the two lands I was in, in Saxony and Bavaria - without any advice. Neither the Presidency Board nor the Council for the selection of Judges shall have the right to vote in the event of the appointment of a Judge. [[And who's calling the candidates?]] He's entitled to a promotion, yes, but that opinion is non-binding. Who's calling the candidates? Candidates report to the Minister of Justice themselves. The Supreme Court, on the other hand, is called upon by the Ministers of Justice of the Land and elected by the Council of Judges, which consists of 32 persons: 16 ministers of the Land, 16 representatives of the German Parliament - the Bundestag. And these are the standards, ladies and gentlemen, these are the standards. On the other hand, the second issue, completely independent of the real situation in these countries, is how it is presented. We have heard the voice, the call to the voice of the independent Commissioner for Human Rights, in which the country... He criticizes us, shows us according to one of the messengers, what changes we should make in the KRS Act, where they violate the Polish constitution, where they violate European standards. And let's see what these standards are in the country of Mr Muiznieks, in Latvia. According to Art. 84 Constitutions of Judges are approved by the Sejm. Revocation of the judge against his will may the Sejm in the cases provided for by the law. Who reports the judges to the Sejm? They report ministers, they report executives. These are the standards. These are the standards, but this is, unfortunately, - it must be said to itself - international hypocrisy, hypocrisy that trumps these voices, because the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe refers directly to the report of the European Commission, where, on page 40, we are talking about Latvia, and the representative, the independent Commissioner for Human Rights, accuses us of breaking standards. This is the international hypocrisy. We know the standards and show them to the general public. We'll be either in the committees or at the next meetings showing them and talking about them. As regards history, Mr Myrcha and many of the previous speakers drew attention to what the round table was doing. The round table meant a compromise with the Communists. Let us not be fooled, then those words that were falling were in a special situation, it was 1989, but after 3 years of the judge's operation citizens saw that the situation was going in the wrong direction, the result of which was the citizens' draft constitution by the "Solidarity" adopted in a vote by almost 3 million citizens, where the question of the judicial system remained open. This one provision concerning the KRS indicated that the Act regulates the whole system, the mode of operation, the method of appointment of the members of the KRS. That's it, period. Even then it was realized that the way we were going was wrong. After 25 years, these fears have been confirmed. As regards further questions, namely allegations of violations of the Constitution, violations of the threefold division of power, I would like to point out that the sovereign is the voters, contrary to what we have heard from his representatives defending the status quo, not the judges, as the supporters of the current system want. The Sejm is not the superior authority, but the superior authority is not the courts. The sovereignty belongs to the nation. All authority comes from the will and power of the nation. [[Applause]] On the issue of socialising the judiciary, as Mr Jachnik pointed out, we are ready, Mr Jachnik, to change and discuss in the context of the appointment of representatives of social organisations to the National Judicial Council. We are ready for changes in the introduction of peace judges, and we fully agree with this direction. We agree that the independence and independence of the judiciary is guaranteed only by giving a real dimension to the sovereignty of the nation over all three authorities, including judicial authority. If we make a historical point, we also had May 3 in our article. 8 an indication that the courts of the earth, the courts are appointed by city and land seyms, and independence, independence of the judiciary is guaranteed by the appointment of judges and the term of office. We agree, Mr President, that these changes can be and should be made, except that it is necessary to amend the Constitution in order to socialise the National Judicial Council both by introducing representatives of social organisations and by introducing judges of peace. These changes are good and can actually be debated, but, I say, the basic law stands in our way here. We are open to these issues. We do not agree to insult Polish judges, Mr Kropiwnicki, to call them Polish Misiewicz. These are the people appointed by the current National Judicial Council. [[And there could be staff from the ministry.]] They're independents. These are the independent judges. These are people who will be irresistible from the National Judicial Council. Therefore, it is not appropriate to define them in this way. [[If you shorten your term of office, where's the inevitability?]] Either the National Judicial Council made mistakes and chose Misiewicz, or here the National Judicial Council is the only defender of Polish democracy. Make up your mind. So these are the days of Polish democracy, these are the days of Polish freedom. After a quarter of a century, we go back to democracy, we go back to Europe, to the standards that citizens have been asking for since a quarter of a century. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u98	Thank you very much, Minister. I inform the High House that Mr Adam Bodnar has asked for the floor. You're welcome, Mr. Spokesman.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u99	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, As ombudsman, I felt that the Act on the National Judicial Council was of fundamental importance from the point of view of respect for civil rights and freedoms. It is difficult to imagine the protection of rights and freedoms if we do not have the guarantee of an independent court if Article. 45 Constitutions and Art. 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights will not be sufficiently respected. At the same time, my comments, which I would like to convey - I have this impression - are also a reflection of the voice of numerous non-governmental organisations, the Chief Bar Council, the National Council of Legal Counsels, the judicial associations that voted against such a wording of the law. We must remember that the right to court is the foundation of the protection of rights and freedoms. It is difficult to imagine that without an independent court our rights and freedoms will be protected: both if the citizen is in an indictment situation, if the citizen is in a situation where the court is the guarantor, that the prosecutor will not exceed his powers to take various procedural actions in the preparatory proceedings and in a situation of dispute with the State, e.g. property disputes with the State Treasury or with companies of the State Treasury, or when cases are resolved which may have consequences for the state budget. These situations when a citizen comes into contact with the apparatus of the state and when he is counting on independent judges, there is a lot and the fact that the courts are independent and the judges are free to decide such matters is the foundation of our democracy, precisely our freedom. Therefore, the Law on the National Judicial Council, as well as the Law on the system of universal courts to be held, are of fundamental importance from this point of view, because if we touch such sensitive matter as the independence of courts from other types of authorities, and especially from the executive authority, then we must be aware of the consequences of the threat to citizens. As ombudsman, I presented two opinions on the Act on the National Judicial Council. Director Wróblewski from my office was honoured to present his first opinion in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. I would like to address two of the most important points. The draft law on the National Judicial Council makes this fundamental change, I would even say that there is a breach of the thin red line, what was just established at the round table as a result of long deliberations, which was patronized by Prof. Adam Strzembosz, because the principle of appointment of the judges of the National Judicial Council is changing completely. Our system, our constitution, is based on the fact that it is the National Judicial Council that combines elements, one can say, political, consisting in representation of the Sejm and the Senate, representation of the President and representation of the judicial community by appointing either the first President of the Supreme Court, or the President of the NSA, or 15 members of judges of the National Judicial Council. And it doesn't matter who appoints those members of the National Judicial Council, it doesn't matter that this appointment comes from the judges themselves. If we look at international standards that have been expressed in various kinds of documents, among others. In the Kiev rules on judicial independence adopted by the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, it is clearly stated that most members of the judicial bodies should be appointed by the judges themselves - the word "peers" is used - i.e. by persons who are equal to those appointed. In this context, the shift in this burden of appointment to the Sejm is a change which does not meet international standards, as the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe has put forward in a very comprehensive opinion. The context of Spain is very often invoked in the Polish debate. It is said that in Spain, the parliament appoints members of the national judicial council, but at the same time it is not seen that Spain is being criticised by, for example, a body such as GRECO, a body of the Council of Europe, which is dealing with the fight against corruption. The same body that the Minister of Justice referred to when he demanded that judges make public declarations of property. It was in Greco's recommendations that it appeared. At the same time, it is not recognised that in the same Spain a majority of 3/5 of the parliament is required to elect those judges of the judicial council. Nor is it recognised that the list of candidates is forwarded to Parliament by the General Council of the Court of Justice, and this is the list that is being voted on. So, in our context, it would have to be in such a way that the candidates are first submitted, the candidates are elected by the National Judicial Council and only Parliament is voting. However, my goal is not to analyse the Spanish solutions or to analyse the solutions applied in other countries, Belgium, Croatia, France, Hungary, Italy, the Netherlands, because in the OSCE's opinion we can read this very carefully on p. 18 and p. 19. On the other hand, I protest against some kind of intellectual dishonesty. We cannot, by proposing such solutions, choose only those that fit us, forgetting what the general context is, what is the political culture in a country and what these solutions serve, how they have been developed over the years. The context and political culture are fundamental. That is why such solutions are created, not other ones, in order to protect the independence of such institutions. This intellectual dishonesty, in my opinion, is unacceptable, especially if it is done by people who are lecturers of the Faculty of Law and Administration at the University of Warsaw. Ladies and gentlemen! One of the demands of the Act is to shorten the term of office of the members of the National Judicial Council. To be honest, when I read the bill, I could not believe that the legislator was at all able to propose something like this, that changes in the functioning of constitutional bodies are envisaged, while assuming that the term of office would be shortened immediately after these changes were adopted. Here someone might ask himself a rhetorical question: Who will be next? Will the next one be the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, whose legislature will shorten the term of office, because it is also a constitutional term, or maybe the Ombudsman, whose term can be terminated by a law adopted by a parliamentary majority? This is contrary to the principles of parliamentary art, contrary to the principles of the democratic rule of law, that such actions are carried out, that the term of office is reduced by the decision of the Sejm. If any changes are made, they should be preceded by a deep reflection and should then be adopted and refer to a possible future term of office. This is the standard of the democratic state. High Izbo! I believe that the justice system needs to be changed. I see this in complaints that are addressed to the Ombudsman's office, and I know this from my many years of practice as a human rights officer. I see various types of irregularities in the functioning of the justice system. The question is whether the system solutions that are proposed are the right way. Why are we not talking about reducing the cognition of courts, the involvement of the social factor in the administration of justice, the involvement of judicial experts, how to increase the participation of alternative dispute resolution methods such as mediation, how to strengthen organisationally courts, how to equip judges with more assistants and referenda? I could multiply a variety of topics that require reflection and reflection. Instead, a change in the system is proposed, a change which undermines the guarantee of independence of judges and the independence of the judiciary. I would like to stress that the adoption of the law on the National Council of Courts and the fact that politicians will have a decisive influence on the cast of the National Council of Courts, not the judges themselves, will cause the spine of an independent judiciary to be broken in Poland. There will be a break with our political tradition, which has been established within the framework of the round table. The National Judicial Council will have an impact on who can become a judge and will consequently have an impact on the functioning of independent courts. This court will then decide on various matters that concern our rights and freedoms. Unfortunately, as an ombudsman, I fear that the absence of an independent court may have negative consequences for the protection of rights and freedoms. There were words here about the judge. The question arises as to whether citizens will feel safe in our country if in one hand there is power over the National Judicial Council, prosecutors, bailiffs, court directors and court presidents. Because if we think about all the laws that have been adopted or that may be adopted in the near future, unfortunately, they lead to such changes. I therefore call for reflection, and I believe that the Act in its present form, as I have put forward in previous opinions, should not be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u100	Thank you, Mr. Spokesman. I would ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As draftsman of the committee, the chair of this committee would like to thank all those who took part in the discussion and work on it in committee. At the same time, I would like to refer to the allegations made regarding the course of the committee's work. I guess it's rare for a committee to process this bill for so many hours. Several hours on two dates, the justice commission worked. The allegation that the text of the bill was not displayed on projectors is missed when every Member on his desk has a draft bill. It is also missed when it has this bill in paper and electronic version, after all, each Member has a work tablet, and in this tablet are drafts of all laws and opinions for these laws. So this charge can't stand... there's no justification. It seems that the text of the Constitution must also be highlighted with all force and in view of the allegations of unconstitutionality. At the previous meeting at first reading, I was referring in detail to constitutional records and it seemed to me that it would be inappropriate to repeat the same content again today. But since the discussion was again abstracted from the text of the Constitution, it seems that it is worth mentioning the text of the Constitution for the sake of the integrity that has been called for here. In particular, I would like to say that as regards Article. 187 concerning the selection of judges to the judicial board, the text of the Constitution reads as follows: The National Judicial Council consists of - that is, point 2 - 15 members chosen from among the Supreme Court judges, universal courts, administrative courts, military courts. Those chosen from among the judges. The Constitution doesn't say who's going to make that choice. But at this point, with regard to the Members and Senators, the Constitution says in the next item: the Senate chosen from among the senators chosen by the Sejm from among the Members. [[Maybe the miners will choose.]] Relax, sir. If you're in charge, maybe you'll consider it and choose it from among the miners. [[Not that they choose.]] Okay, but for now, let's stick to the constitution. [[Any organ can choose.]] But there's art. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. The 4th Constitution, which this emerging state of doubt determines who is to choose from among the judges. And lips. 4 says that the choice of members is governed by the law. With regard to Members and Senators who are members of the National Judicial Council, the Constitution simply states: it elects their Sejm and elects their Senate. So it's just a matter of regulation for 15 judges to be elected by law. And here's the constitution saying... [[So any authority can choose judges.]] ...the system of the National Judicial Council - ladies and gentlemen, this system is a far-reaching constitutional mandate - will determine the law, scope and mode of the National Judicial Council will determine the law, the way the members are elected will be determined by the law. Of course, those members whose constitution does not speak directly, and as I said, the constitution speaks directly... [[And the term of office?]] ...only members of the National Judicial Council elected by the Sejm and by the Senate, and with regard to judges leaves the matter in the mouth. 4 that the way of choosing will be determined by the law. And the bill just states that among the judges... [[Anyone can choose.]] ...the election of the members of the National Judicial Council will be made by the Sejm. Slow? Slowly. But don't get ahead of yourself, because I'm gonna take you back to my term of office. I see that this argument is either accepted or unsatisfactory, hence the attempt to move forward. As far as I'm concerned... [[So any subject can choose judges.]] Mr President, you had time to discuss and speak out... [[Don't disturb me.]] Listen to me now.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u102	Yes, sir, thank you very much for doing this for me. Mr Myrcha, you have had your time, you have been able to articulate all these doubts. Now let the rapporteur finish his speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u103	The Constitution says the bill will determine the system. And here we are in the project dealing with the new regime of the National Judicial Council. You know very well, you are aware that the project is talking about a new council system, because you were critical of this system, accusing it of being unconstitutional, that we are creating two assemblies, that it is breaking the constitution. I ask: Where does the constitution introduce such a restriction that two assemblies cannot be set up? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] It's very wide... There the constitution sounds different with regard to the Sejm and such powers the constitution does not give that the Sejm will determine the regime of the Sejm. That's not true. And as for the National Judicial Council... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: The third chamber of the Sejm cannot be created.]] ...there's a clear record that the system of this council... I'm asking you what the system would be down to if you're questioning everything. You question this constitutional basis, which explicitly states that the council system will be defined by the Sejm. [[We're not questioning her.]] The Seym defines the system of counsel and assumes that it will consist of two assemblies, the first and the second. Can you tell me where in the Constitution it is forbidden to do such a system? There's no such prohibition anywhere. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: And the third chamber of the Sejm can be created?]] As regards the term of office, it is indeed stated in the Constitution that the term of office of the elected members of the National Judicial Council lasts four years. But here we are dealing with a new quality, creating a new council system. If we are creating a new council system, we would have to deal with the situation that some members of the council will be selected according to the new sound of the project, and some members of the council... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: It is necessary to wait until the end of the term of office and then choose.]] ...is left by choice of the previous, and so we are dealing with a completely, in my opinion, unacceptable situation. That's one argument. I ask Mrs Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Mr Myrch, who spoke on this subject, to allow me to speak calmly now. [[But you're shortening your term of office.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u104	I join Mr Peterowicz's request.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u105	Please take it easy, because at the moment when you said that I was the representative of the applicants, you were saying the wrong thing because I am not the representative of the applicants... [[Aren't you from the PiS? Aren't you Law and Justice?]] ...I am the rapporteur, that is the fundamental difference, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u106	Excuse me, sir. Mr President, I do not want to reach for the rule of law, but for the last time, I would very much like to ask you to allow me to finish the rapporteur's speech calmly. If you keep interrupting, I'll use... [[Only, Marshal, I call for equality.]] You will appeal when Mr Piotrowicz is finished. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u107	At the same time, I would like to stress that there are serious doubts as to whether the current terms of office of judges in the National Judicial Council are in accordance with the Constitution. The Minister of Justice spoke to the Constitutional Tribunal with such doubts. To what do reservations arise? Well, at the beginning of the operation of the National Judicial Council, it was obvious that all judges start their term of office at one time and end at the same time, unless there are random accidents. If, for random reasons laid down in the rules, the judge could not remain in office until the end of his term of office, a supplementary election was made for the remainder of his term of office. This was the case until the National Judicial Council adopted a resolution amending these rules, stating that, in the event that the judge ceases to serve his term of office, a new judge of the National Judicial Council is elected and that his term of office will be renewed. According to the Minister of Justice, first of all, the Supreme Court had no right to adopt a resolution amending the rules. Secondly, the principle that the term of office begins at one time and ends at the same time as in the Seym was violated. For this reason, the project returns to those solutions which, for several years, have been respected and applied by the National Judicial Council. Therefore, in such a situation, the end of the term of office takes on a slightly different meaning. Comparing the end of this term, this situation, to the possibility of interrupting another term, is a complete misunderstanding, in particular when it relates to the President. Does it say anywhere in the Constitution that the functioning of the Presidential Office will be governed by a law? No, it's not anywhere. On the other hand, with regard to the National Council of Courts, there is a mandate that the system of that Council will determine the law. And this is an extraordinary situation. Besides, if the Constitutional Tribunal settles the case, after all, the legislative procedure does not end today, we will be open to all suggestions. I would also like to point out, because you use strong words: you are lying and I am very careful in using such phrases, but I would like to stress that the position of some institutions, organisations that you are referring to, is based on a false factual and legal situation. In particular, it is striking when you refer to the position of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. After all, it is worth to emphasize that this organization assumes that the National Council of Courts is an organ of the judiciary. From this he draws far-reaching conclusions that it is unacceptable to interfere with another authority in the National Council of the Courts, which is the body of the judiciary. The National Judicial Council is not an organ of the judiciary. Secondly, many institutions confuse the judicial board with the justice system, followed by harsh criticism. From this I began my speech, the National Court Council is not a body of the judiciary, first of all. Secondly, the National Judicial Council is not a judicial authority, it is clear from the Constitution. If someone is based on faulty premises, then the conclusion must be affected. Dear countries, appealing also today, I think, to the round table, perhaps it should be directed towards recourse to the constitution rather than to round-table arrangements. It was also questioned, ladies and gentlemen, and I will be... Because it appears in many voices and quite often that the Law and Justice received so many votes of support, with such turnout etc., etc., there is therefore no legal and moral right to reform the country. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a question to be asked... [[Nobody said that.]] ...whether the previous Polish rulers had such a right, or, ladies and gentlemen, increased the retirement age against the will of the nation... [[Nobody said that.]] ...against many other premises and making far-reaching, I would say, negative reforms. And that's when they said they had ID. We never questioned that those governments had no legitimacy to make changes. We've been criticizing change, not lack of I.D. It is worth emphasizing: after 1989, no political group had as strong support and authority to make changes as the Law and Justice. No group has yet received a majority after 1989 to formulate the government on its own. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the refusal of the Law and Justice to reform the country in the context of the electoral results so far cannot withstand criticism. And it's worth that this information gets to you and that you stop using this argument that Law and Justice have no right. [[We're talking about a constitutional change.]] He has the right to reform. It received the biggest public support after 1989. On the other hand, when I hear criticism today that the Law and Justice are not able to reform, from a representative of a group who hardly slips into the Sejm during each term, it really falls down. No one said that this group has no moral and legal right to reform the state. Ladies and gentlemen, every project arouses emotions, gives rise to discussions and doubts, but on the other hand, these doubts must be resolved. The nation demands reform, mostly justice reform. It has been said that we are not dealing with the cognition of courts, that we are not taking other legislative initiatives to improve the justice system. Okay. There's gonna be time for that. Of course we're aware of that. It is not possible to reform everything in a single legal act, but we are doing it gradually - from the National Council of Courts, through the system of common courts, through subsequent detailed laws determining the functioning of the judiciary. We will not depart from this reform, because if we did not do so, we would embezzle the will of the voters. We're restoring justice to the nation. Because please indicate to me whether there is a legal instrument today by which Article. 4 would not be a dead record, an instrument by which the nation exercises sovereignty over the justice system. You say that when it comes to the justice system, the superior authority will be exercised by politicians. Dear country, it is the nation, the sovereign, who exercises sovereignty directly or indirectly. This indirectly means through politicians who have been elected in general elections. If the nation is dissatisfied with reform, it will, of course, bill the next election. Government is about making decisions and taking responsibility to voters for decisions taken. You don't think power can and shouldn't be used. If someone doesn't use power or use it badly, it leads to a theoretical state. We exercise power on behalf of the nation, make important decisions on behalf of the nation and count on responsibility to the nation. Those who accuse us of stubbornness, I believe, claim that the Law and Justice will rule forever. It better be, but if it is, it's for the nation to decide. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u108	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. That's right, it's just... [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: corrected.]] ...in the mode of correction, she asks for the floor of Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz. But I listened carefully to Mr Peterowicz's speeches and did not appeal to the Member in any of his speeches. That's why... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: No, he referred to me by name and by name.]] Member, I apologize. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: You are breaking the rules.]] If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. [[Objection.]] Excuse me, was there an objection? Who objected? [[Me.]] [[Member of the Jachnik.]] Member of the Jachnik. In that case, we will settle this objection in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law on the system of common courts and certain other laws (prints Nos 1491 and 1591). I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Mr Ombudsperson! I present a report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law on the System of General Courts and certain other laws (Print No 1491). The Commission, at its meeting on 2 June 2017, considered the report of the Emergency Sub-Committee of 30 May 2017 and amended 14 amendments to the original draft. First of all, I would like to remind you of the most important changes to this bill. That's, among other things. a change concerning the authorisation of the Minister of Justice to the Secretaries and Undersecretaries of State to delegate the powers of the Minister, the appointment by the Minister of Justice of the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Courts without the opinion of the Judges' Assembly, the establishment of a procedure for the dismissal of the Presidents of the Courts in accordance with the conditions laid down in the draft, the new rules for the appointment of judges of Visitors and a new model of visits, the detailed definition of the legal matter contained in the Rules of Procedure of the Courts, the procedure for making the file available and for presenting them to the Minister of Justice, the assessment of the qualifications of candidates for the Judge, the rights and the duties of the Coordinators for Justice. International cooperation in criminal and civil matters, the transfer of a judge to another department, the introduction of new tools for external and internal supervision of the administrative activities of the courts in the form of an assessment of the annual information submitted by the Presidents of the courts at all levels and in the form of a reference to administrative irregularities, the introduction of an institution for rehabilitation leave of a judge as a period during which it will be possible to restore the full capacity of the judge to perform his duties, the departure from the existing system of evaluation of the judge's work and professional development planning, the acquisition of the right to rest by judges of women, and prosecutors of women of age corresponding to the general retirement age, i.e. 60 years, introducing the possibility of a delegation of judges, including to the Registry of the President of the Republic of Poland and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, detailing the catalogue of information in the statements of property of judges and prosecutors, as well as a delegation to the Minister of Justice concerning the issuing of a regulation on the model form for a declaration of property statement, granting the powers of the Treasury arising from copyright rights to computer programs by decision of the Minister of Justice, setting up the Justice Fund as an instrument of assistance for victims and witnesses, regulating the conditions for the application for return to the position of judge, introducing as a rule the system of the random allocation of cases to judges and the principle of equal burdening judges with cases to ensure equal and fair burden on judicial staff and guaranteeing impartiality to parties for proceedings, amending the Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund enabling the transfer of retired judges and prosecutors - women at the age of 60 and men at the age of 65 - the possibility of appeal of the current President of the courts by the Minister of Justice within 6 months of the entry into force of the Act. The Commission of Justice, as I have already stated, introduced 14 amendments at its meeting on 2 June 2017. I'd like to zoom in on the most important of them. Amendment concerning Article. 9aa on the powers of the Minister of Justice which may be entrusted to the Secretaries or Undersecretaries of State in the Ministry of Justice, with the exception of the powers to issue a decision to transfer the Judge without his consent, i.e. except for the existing Article. 75 § 2 Law on the system of common courts. Transfer of the judge to another department without his consent in the event that no other judge in that department has agreed to the transfer, then the criterion of transfer will be the traineeship of the judges. As a rule, a judge with the lowest judicial internship will be transferred. A binding opinion of the National Judicial Council as a constitutional body protecting the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges was introduced in the appeal procedure when the National Judicial Council adopted a resolution on this matter by a majority of 2/3 of its votes. The provisions of the Law on the System of General Courts have been adapted to the amending provisions of the Act of 11 May 2017 amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office in the field of judicial assessors, referenda, statutory authorisation to issue a regulation by the Minister of Justice laying down the Rules of Procedure for the Office of the Courts, modification of the model of access to the judicial profession. The next amendment was supplemented by guidelines for issuing a Regulation of the Minister of Justice on the principles of random allocation of cases. The principle was introduced that a judge entitled to retire on any given day, but with a three-month notice, should notify the President of the Court of Justice of the exercise of that right, which should have a positive effect on the organisation of the court's work. New conditions have been introduced for the appointment of an assistant prosecutor of the prosecutor's office. This applies to persons who have passed a judicial or bar exam and for at least 3 years have carried out activities related to the creation or application of law in offices serving public authorities or have a doctorate degree in legal sciences. The article has been deleted. 14 as a transitional provision and introduced as an adjustment provision in the proposed law. It concerns information contained in the statement of property of judges made before 6 January 2017 as at 31 December 2016, which will be made available in the Public Information Bulletin within 2 months of the date of entry into force of the Act. The vacathio legis of this law has also been amended. The original draft included a calendar date on 1 July 2017, currently a minimum period of 14 days for the entry into force of this law, with the exception of Article. 13, which will enter into force on 1 October 2017. I'll remind you, Art. 13 concerns the Pension Act. High Izbo! I would like to thank you very much for working in the extraordinary subcommittee, the fruit of which was these 14 amendments, and for working in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, and I request that the High House adopt this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u110	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Waldemar Buda, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u111	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft parliamentary law amending the Law on the system of common courts and certain other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! The Parliamentary bill is another step in the reform of the justice system. These are new solutions that objective the whole process from the very beginning, from the examination of cases and from the allocation of cases. They also give the Minister competence, such as the less connected appointment of the Presidents of the courts, but this has a broad justification, for example, in the fact that in our system, responsibility for the functioning of the judiciary is seen in the Minister. Without powers, it is difficult for the Minister to assume responsibility for the efficiency of justice, speed of proceedings, independence of judges. These guarantees may be provided where the Minister has the tools which authorise him to make such changes, such as personnel, which allow him to establish relations with the Presidents of the courts, with the directors who function in the courts. Detailed solutions, such as the right to delegate cases under the Law on the System of General Courts, are necessary in my opinion. Already today it is fictional to maintain a state in which we believe that we maintain the rule that any minister can act alone in the full extent of the powers he holds. Today, with the accumulation of powers in the hands of the Minister of Justice, it is undoubtedly positive that some of these matters may be delegated to the Secretaries of State. It seems to me that the introduction of this rule will not harm any value and will certainly improve the functioning of the courts. I would like to remind you that this delegation will also cover very minor matters, such as the examination of individual requests by judges, where, I think, the Minister of Justice's personal involvement in this situation is simply not necessary. Draw and assign objective cases. This is a solution that should actually work in every court. We had part of that principle introduced in criminal matters. This is absolutely necessary from this point of view that, in the event of a negative settlement of a case for a particular party, we subtract the argument that the assignment of cases was controlled, that the assignment of cases was intended that this particular judge was specifically delegated to consider a particular case. This cuts off any speculation about the assignment of cases and does not indicate that this is the source of problems, at least the party that lost the case. The next solution is to limit the portability of judges. As so far, the President of the Court has had full freedom here, so today we introduce a rule which in principle excludes this situation. Of course, as every rule, this one has its exceptions, and we are proposing that there must be a certain gateway for specific solutions, such as adapting the department's work to exceptional situations, and here these exceptional situations are also foreseen. Ladies and gentlemen! The indistinguishability of a judge to consider a particular case. As a practice, legal counsel, I must say that this solution is absolutely necessary. I know that cases last for many years and the next judge of a given case, which already lasts three years, first of all, does not serve the speed of proceedings, and secondly also affects the correctness of the decision. Even if the judge and the new court had good will and any predisposition to a swift and proper settlement of the case, they might be overlooked by circumstances that were relevant, for example, in the hearing of witnesses. Today's reflection... [[I mean, there's recordings.]] Excuse me? Reflection of the witness's hearing in the minutes alone is not sufficient [[♪ The bell ♪]] To properly assess his testimony. Ladies and gentlemen! For these and many other reasons which I do not have time to say here today, Law and Justice will of course support the parliamentary draft amending law. I would also like to add that on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to present three amendments that concern this project. The first amendment concerns the so-called. rehabilitation leave, introduces detailed solutions for the study and...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u112	Accelerate, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u113	...remuneration during rehabilitation leave. The second amendment concerns the indication of the reasons which have been taken into account in the decision of the Minister of Justice who agrees to perform the duties of judge once the retirement age has been reached. And the third solution is a solution which precludes the Minister's opposition in the event of the appointment of judges to visitors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u114	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u115	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This draft law on common courts is undoubtedly unprecedented, in a negative sense, because it significantly overturns the constitutional order based on the classic threefold division of power. The scope of violations of the Polish Constitution is so huge that the project has been widely criticised both in Poland and abroad. The most dangerous solution must certainly be the granting of new competences to the executive authority which have so far been unknown. The draft provides that it will be the Minister of Justice who will be able to appoint the Presidents of the Appeals, District and District Courts on a one-man basis without the need to obtain an opinion on the candidates from the general assembly of these courts. Thus, the competition procedures are completely eliminated and the constitutional body of the National Judicial Council is excluded from this procedure. Moreover, the Minister of Justice will also be able to dismiss those functional judges in any and unfettered manner. This will enable him to very laconic and generalise the reasons for appeal in the law itself. At this point, it is worth recalling the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal of 9 November 1993, in which it was found to be incompatible with the principles of division of power and independence of the courts of the law, which granted the Minister the right to appoint and dismiss the governors of appeals and voivodeships after consulting the non-binding opinion of the general assembly, as well as the right to appoint and dismiss vice-presidents of appeal courts, voivodeships and the President and Vice-President of the regional court, excluding any, even non-binding, participation of the judiciary. In the context of these new powers of the Minister of Justice, it should also be stressed that the transitional provisions of the draft law provide for the possibility for the Minister to dismiss all current judges until the end of the year. What's important is that this can happen without giving any reason. Law and Justice, therefore, does not even create a pretense that this law is to sanction staff cleansing in Polish courts. If we look at the functioning of the Polish prosecutor's office, which Minister Ziobro has ruled completely for more than a year, what is the scale of purgatory and politicisation there, we may have the worst fear that a similar phenomenon will also affect the Polish judiciary. The current Constitutional Tribunal can undoubtedly be a threat. The right to refer to judges of the Tribunal who do not respect the previous judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, who do not have any restraint to say that they represent the government and will defend it, let alone that the pace of work in the Court has fallen several times compared to previous years. However, any appointment and dismissal of functional judges is still not enough for Minister Ziobra. The draft sets out very widely the situations in which the Minister will be able to press the judges, as it gives him the opportunity to request the President of the Court to remedy the deficiencies observed and will also be able to reward deserved judges with rapid promotions. The President of the Court of Appeal will be able to become a judge of the district court, and the President of the District Court will be able to become a district judge. The presidents judged positively by the minister will receive a higher supplement. But that's still not enough. The Minister of Justice, which is also a novel, will indicate the doctors of the jurors, without which the judge will not be able to carry out his duties. Such tests will be mandatory. Failure to study will result in a reduction in wages or salaries and will entail disciplinary responsibility. This is unacceptable in the light of Article. 2 of the Constitution because of the lack of proportionality of the interference. The same powers shall be conferred on the President of the Republic of Poland in respect of judges of the Supreme Court. This solution is incompatible with Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 The bill also provides for full disclosure of the statement of property of judges. Not all states may know this, but judges have been obliged for years to make statements which are subject to a thorough assessment of the special and tax services. Therefore, anti-corruption measures of the states can be taken calmly. However, law and justice suggests that every citizen should have knowledge of the private assets of judges, including, of course, those who face the courts. I will remind you that they are often ruthless bandits, organized criminal groups, kidnappers, and thieves. Such procedures do not build trust in institutions. If the disclosure of the statements were so important, the Polish Parliament and the government would enjoy the highest social confidence. Research and polls show a completely different story. These changes, which form the offices under the Minister of Justice from independent courts, constitute the main foundation of this draft law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The fact that the justice system needs reform, we all know. Polish citizens, lawyers, judges and experts know this. The proposed reform of Law and Justice offers the diseased organism a deadly political virus that will destroy this organism from the inside. Therefore, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club requests that the project be rejected at second reading while making a number of amendments that could heal the project in the event of its failure to reject it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u116	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Club Kukiz'15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u117	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz 15 Club, it is my pleasure to present our opinion on the changes in prints 1491 and 1591. At first, I must say with regret that I do not really understand what Mr Myrch meant, who spoke about the Constitutional Court in the case of the Law on the System of General Courts. These are two different topics, Mr President. As far as the bill is concerned, let me put it this way: I remember Mr Wróblewski's statement at first reading, when he was very positive about the changes we proposed, that they would be discussed, that they also have a basis. And then at the justice committee meeting -- which I wasn't personally on, because I was sick, but I was watching them all the time on the computer -- this roller was waltzing everything again, just like it usually does. So it continues, practically speaking, to the point that it is seemingly radical and deep, but it is radical and deep only to one extent: how to name staff. I am not saying that there is no need for these staff to mention, yes, after considering the matter, I am able to accept the appointment as the presidents of judges from one region to another region, in order to break certain agreements. On the other hand, I cannot accept that the Presidents of higher courts should be judges of lower courts, because this is disregarding the judges themselves and a certain level. It can't, for example. A young judge of the district court who barely received a nomination and decided to be suddenly president of the appeal court, because it's just ridiculous. But I'm asking you, I still have a basic question, and there's nothing left in this case. done: What about this law on the system of universal courts will citizens, those who go to court? Because we praise the randomness of assigning cases here, but if the random choice of a judge looks like it is today in criminal matters - and it looks exactly like this way that the files are coming into the delivery log, in the case of criminal cases it is 100 cases, and you choose a judge by the letter of the alphabet - then I ask which case is the first, which is the second, which is the third, which is the fourth, because they have different signatures. In court, I was never able to find out as a representative of non-governmental organizations, which judge on a given day has the letter of the alphabet and what was the order of cases, because cases are not numbered. So if that's what's going to happen in civil matters, it's going to go on: no one knows anything, only the judges know. And that's what people need to know, ladies and gentlemen. We, the citizens, are to know whether the judge was randomly assigned or randomly assigned. Therefore, this system, which is in force in the criminal system, does not give an exam at all. You did not address our comments and did not accept them to nominate the judges for the trial period, this 5-year trial period. I repeat this, and I will say with stubbornness the maniac: What about the judges who in life, after coming to work in court, after applications, will not work out, simply fail for various reasons: health, nervousness, other predispositions, lack of logical reasoning skills, which in the education system do not always work out? So this is a mistake because we're gonna be able to preserve the layout of these. 20%/30% of judges who will only be promoted because they have a specific internship or have certain political arrangements. There is still no mention in the proposal of judges whose judgments are repealed by the European Court of Justice. Mr Wróblewski, I remind you of what you said. Just listen to what you said the other day when I picked it up. There's nothing, not a word. Nor is there any responsibility for chronicity and gross violation of the law. Tomorrow, I encourage you to discuss how the Polish court sentenced the victim to 5 years on 16 February and the criminal is victimized, and she can be taken to prison at any time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There are also no specific psychiatric studies, and once again I stress that 25% of the population is sick. Unfortunately, the situation will be that there will be no discipline in the club regarding this printing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u118	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u119	Sorry, I still wanted to file a motion to refer this to the Legislative Committee because the Justice Committee is not the right committee to proceed with this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u120	Thank you very much, sir. Before I give the floor to Marshal Barbara Dolniak, the Modern Club, I wanted to welcome the guests from the Family Garden of the Department of Relaxation from Obornik Wielkopolski, who are listening to our discussions today. We would like to welcome you very warmly. [[Applause]] Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u121	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the words of the Minister, which we have heard recently, let me quote again Mr Jarosław Kaczyński's words. Why? Therefore, I would like to say that today, the PiS is introducing a law that is directly contrary to these words. And here's a quote: The question of the appointment of the Presidents of the courts without the participation of the judiciary is one of the gates allowing the power to make individual judges dependent on the judgment. It's worth the rush to close all those gates. I agree with those words by Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, but the Members of Law and Justice do not, since they are introducing this project. And, Minister, here there is no agreement with that authority, here are the words against that authority and the methods used by that authority, the opposition to the situation in which this ruling party had a significant, decisive influence on the choice of judges. This is what Mr Jarosław Kaczyński opposed. And now we're back to before 1989? What's going on today? Today's justice system is actually the last reduction in the defence of a democratic rule of law. [[Ha, ha, ha.]] PiS wants to take over the country completely. How else are we supposed to define the actions taken since the beginning of PiS's reign? PiS has already taken over the prosecutor's office, the Constitutional Tribunal, now the National Court of Justice and, of course, the common courts. How else do you call the Minister of Justice's right to appoint and dismiss presidents, vice-presidents and in accordance with the previously passed law of the courts at his own discretion? In practice, it is one person, the Minister of Justice, who will decide everything, without justification. How else can the President be dismissed if there is a particularly low efficiency in administrative supervision or in the organisation of work in a court or in a lower court? You can hook up everything you make up your mind about. If that is not enough, the visitors will also depend on the Minister of Justice - the visitors who will judge the work of the courts and judges. According to the project, the role of the judiciary will be limited to getting acquainted with the ministerial candidacy. That's worse than before 1989, because then the Minister of Justice at least listened to the college's opinion, and now not at all. You do not propose any solutions for judicial reform, restrictions on the type of cases affecting the court, the promotion of mediation. It has been a year and a half, and there is no proposal for a regulation reducing legal fees at all, and they are among the highest in Europe compared to citizens' income. It is the court fees that prevent cases from being brought to court in many cases. In fact, the projects introduced are not in line with the constitution. You're not reforming justice, you're introducing personnel laws to subdue people. That's not what you promised in the election campaign. We do not question that you have a majority in the Sejm, we do not question that you have won the election, but as citizens we do not agree to the violation of the law. And you didn't get the right to do that by winning the election. [[Applause]] You don't consult, you don't want to talk about change. The opposition's project was based on changes developed and proposed by the Association of Iustitia. You rejected it at first reading, and it was there, among others. the question of the participation of citizens in the submission of candidates to the National Judicial Council. You rejected it at first reading. That's your way of reforming the justice system? This is the way you want to change him? By the way, the judge who takes over the case in the course of the hearing may be familiar with the course of the hearing, because today the hearing is being recorded. I ignore the fact that this is offensive to judges of almost 10,000, with almost 15 million cases being handled, if you say that when a new judge recognizes it, he may be mistaken or not familiar with it. Well, if that's how you think it works, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The justice system, forgive me, but such words, like the words of the Ministry of Justice, indicate that you do not feel the justice system at all and that you really have no way of reforming it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] And yet, your Marshal - in view of the content of this project, the Modern Club is requesting that it be rejected at second reading, and if the proposal is not accepted, we are making a number of amendments which, in our opinion, this project, although in part, can save. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u122	Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal. I invite Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u123	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club to present our position on the report of the committee on the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the system of common courts and certain other laws. In fact, it is a good thing that today we have a temporary coincidence about the draft law on the system of common courts and the previously proceded draft law amending or revolutionising the completely National Council of Courts, because these are two projects, but in fact the philosophy that led to their writing is very similar. The argument is that Poles expect changes in the justice system broadly understood, especially in the judiciary. And that is true, I say this not for the first time and not only in the parliamentary debate, but also in the discussions that we are discussing in the committee of justice, but the recipe that you are proposing that the Polish courts should heal is not a good prescription. It's like this, and I'm gonna say this not for the first time, as if the doctor recommended treatment for arm pain by her amputation. This isn't any way, Minister. It is a pity that you were so ostentatiously referring to the Congress of Polish Lawyers. In fact, there may have been too many emotions on both sides, but you could hear many good recipes - better than your prescription. Your prescription is to give away everything - judges, their appointment, supervision of courts, supervision of court presidents - minister Zbigniew Ziobra. I do not question the responsibility of the Minister, especially the political ones, in fact deserve much recognition, but these substantive ones, also the whole point, the aim which this is pursuing, are unfortunately less. I will mention here what happened during the Congress of Polish Lawyers in Katowice, because there were very many customs comments in response to real problems of the justice system. What are the problems? Excessive formalism of procedures, long waiting for a decision on a case, unclear rulings, appointment of experts and their lengthy work. However, in the whole package of government-forced laws, there are no changes that can be seen, at least in part, improve in this respect. Instead, we get projects that have a clear political meaning. There's no political outrage, High Izbo, not at all, not a step away. Let us recall that, even recently, the United Nations has pointed out that this is not the way in a civilised country which is considered to be a European cultural circle, where it is very precise and too sensitive to look at the principles of a democratic rule of law for such a thing to work. I have one interesting quote. I liked the words that during the two lawyers' congress in Katowice mentioned by me, Jacek Trela, President of the Supreme Bar Council, said: Destroying the authority of the judiciary will lead - or at least gives rise to such fear - to anarchizing public life in Poland. In fact, High Izbo, it may be when we politicize the courts. We will find that out quickly, because immediately after the first sentences are handed down, when the judge in charge of the executive authority will not give Poland or the Pole a chance to prove their rights and obligations in an impartial and objective manner before this court. There will be no chance that, especially in disputes with the state, its institutions and its agendas, they will be able to count on [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unbiased decision. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party cannot support the bill that we are proceeding in this form. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u124	Thank you very much, sir. I ask Mr Jack Protasiewicz, the Circle of the European Union of Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u125	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Gentlemen of Ministers! Mr Buda, representing the Law and Justice Club, the applicants of the bill discussed today, said during his speech that this law was another step in reforming the justice system in Poland. Given that we are discussing immediately after the discussion on the changes in the National Judicial Council, it must be said that on 7 June 2017 it is the day of implementation by the Law and Justice of two further steps on the road not to reforming the justice system, but to taking control of the Polish justice system. The way in which this control is taken over and in which it is to be carried out, unfortunately requires that it is a black day for the Polish justice system, and therefore for the fundamental fundamental rights of Polish citizens and citizens. I would like to make it clear, also referring to the voices of the previous discussion - the words of the prosecutor, Mr Piotrowicz, that the Law and Justice, PiS, had received a special mandate from the nation during the 2015 elections to make these changes - that you did not receive such a mandate. There is no reason to claim that you exercise a unique power in Poland as a result of the 2015 elections, given the scale of voting support. I want to remind you that in the last election, you've reached 37.6%. According to the specific votes cast on the Law and Justice list, 5 711 671 votes. I want to tell you that there have been elections in which the winning groups received more - not only percentagely, like the 2001 SLD or the 2011 Platform, but like the 2007 Platform... Having received 41,5% She had 6 229 773 votes. Yes, it is almost 1 million more citizens, Poles and Poles, voted for the Civic Platform in 2007 than it voted for you in 2015. The support received was respected, but the illegal regime of the Republic of Poland was not demolished, as you do today. Your advantage in this Sejm, the absolute majority, is due to an unfortunate coincidence that the left coalition lacked 0.5%. Voices to have your representation here, which would bring your score to real size. Having said this, I would like to say that in the first debate, at the first reading of the law on the system of common courts, we made some demands. They concerned primarily three issues from the proposed project. First: we questioned the right of the Minister of Justice to appoint judges, the Presidents of the courts of all instances, all courts in Poland without consulting the judiciary. You have not respected this request, you have not changed this record, which in fact, as Marshal Dolnyak said, you are restoring the state of the Polish judiciary by virtue of a law adopted in the times of the Polish People's Republic, after the war in 1985. I want to make it clear to you that this solution is challenged not only by the Constitutional Tribunal, to which we know you have no respect, but also by your experts, by Professor Banaszak, whom you have even called to the Venice Commission and whose opinion you like to invoke. Not so long ago, because five years ago, in the Sejm Review he published the following opinion: It is doubtful from the point of view of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland that the Minister of Justice may, through human rights decisions, have a significant influence on the activities of the courts, indirectly also on the case-law, calling on the presidents of persons with certain views. Remember, because you like to rely on the Solidarity, [[♪ The bell ♪]] In 1981, the right to comment on candidates for the Presidents of the Courts was one of the main demands of the Judge's Solidarity. Have respect for your own experts. Have respect for the position of the great movement. Have respect for the Constitution and for the citizens who did not give you the right to destroy the justice system in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Therefore, as these amendments have not been taken into account, I am making a request on behalf of the circle of the European Union of Democrats to reject this draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u126	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Ireneusz Gaina made a statement in writing. Please, Mr Janusz Sanocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u127	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish justice system works badly, works badly, hurts citizens, gives unfair sentences. And it is not any value raised here by the alleged independence of judges as a virtue, as a value to be defended. The highest value is the public good, the truth and sovereignty of the nation, the sovereignty of the nation over the judicial authority. Therefore, the allegations that the bill is unconstitutional are misplaced. On the other hand, this law is far from sufficient. She's barely touching this administration segment with courts. A broad debate is needed on the restoration of national control over the selection of judges, either directly or indirectly. And I am speaking here - I hope that such a debate will take place - on behalf of myself, but also on behalf of Members of the Parliament's Team for the New Constitution, in which we adopted a draft law on the system of courts introducing the selection of judges by the voivodeship judicial council. This project is included in such a special publication. Any Member who wants to get it will get it from us. I think that such a debate - I am absolutely convinced - should come to a broad public debate on the shape of justice and the shape of the judiciary. Here it is necessary to restore and repeat what I will say with stubbornness, Art. 4 constitutions: the sovereignty of the Republic of Poland is exercised by the nation either directly or by its representatives, which means that judges do not have the right to claim to choose themselves and to elect their own representatives. This is to be done by the nation either directly or by its representatives. We therefore propose, as a parliamentary support team, to consider this proposal for indirect elections by the people elected by the voivodship judicial councils, which would elect candidates subsequently presented to the National Judicial Council, which would further present this selected candidate to the President for approval. That would bring back that very principle. And that's what we need to rely on, because otherwise we're just wandering into some clouds and telling things that are incredibly subjective. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's why this bill, which comes in, regulates part of it, is certainly not unconstitutional. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u128	Thank you very much, sir. [[I'll put it here, Marshal. There you go.]] Thank you very much. 13 Members joined the questions. Does anyone else want to ask a question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Civic Platform. Question time - 1 minute. There's no envoy. Mrs Marta Golbik. There isn't either. Mrs Zofia Czernow. You're welcome. [[What's the time?]] One minute. [[Voice from the room: One minute is not enough. One and a half.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u129	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The independence of courts and the independence of judges is fundamental to guaranteeing civil liberties. Civil liberties are of great value; they are inalienable rights of citizens in a democratic state. However, the proposed bill does not meet these standards, significantly aggravates the current situation. Such a fundamental law on the system of universal courts is a parliamentary project, which is unprecedented in the process of lawmaking practice. This law requires broad public consultation, broad dialogue. However, as a parliamentary project, it is conducted without expert opinions, without consultation. What's the rush? Why is it not a government project, deeply thought out and consulted? And second question: [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why so much competence for the Minister of Justice if he is unable to implement them himself, and therefore the Act proposes that these powers be ceded to the Secretarys of State or Undersecretaries of State? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u130	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u131	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This draft law proposes that the Presidents of the Courts and Vice-Presidents of the Courts appoint the Minister of Justice without consulting the General Assembly of Judges without the opinion of the National Courts Council. I believe that this is a violation of the Constitution, which speaks of the independence of the judiciary: Courts and Courts are separate and independent from other authorities, and it does not constitute the implementation of the Article. 10, which speaks of the division and balance of the legislative, executive and judicial powers. Turning the case aside, it could be said that if the executive authority or the legislative authority decides to fill a position in a judicial authority, it may be asked whether the judicial authority should decide to fill a position, I do not know, in a government or for example. in the Seym, whether he should choose the Members. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So there is absolutely no balance, only the advantage of one power over other authorities. I would like to ask you how you feel about why you are pushing solutions that are contrary to the Constitution and which will lead to the dependence of the judiciary, the Presidents of the courts - not only the administration, but also the Presidents of the courts - on the executive authority, which will lead to the politicisation of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u132	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u133	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Question for the rapporteur. Why would the Minister of Justice have the right to express a binding opinion on a candidate for a judge of the Visitor? After all, the Minister of Justice has no knowledge of the competence, skills or experience of the judge, but only the judicial environment has such knowledge. We must say explicitly that the Minister of Justice wants to influence the assessment of the work of the judges of the jurors. Such a situation is a gross violation of the principle of the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges, because after such a negative opinion, the Minister of Justice may suggest changes, i.e. those judges which he considers not to be very corresponding to his vision, may, on the basis of such an opinion, alter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u134	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Why is it that judges who have reached 60 years of age are ordered to retire? [[Voice from the room: That's discrimination!]] Achievement of 60 years of age should involve law and not the obligation to retire. The mandatory transition to rest should involve reaching 65 years of age unless the judge wishes to continue to occupy the office and presents a medical certificate confirming the ability to continue to rule. Why does the bill give the Minister of Justice the power to decide whether a judge who has reached the age of retirement and is healthy can continue to rule? After all, in this way the Minister of Justice, contrary to the Constitution, is entitled to determine who can and who cannot occupy the office of the judge. Constitution in Article. 180 states that the judges are indispensable and that the transfer of the judge [[♪ The bell ♪]] resting may be caused by the fact that he is prevented from exercising his or her office of sickness or loss of strength. Since it appears from the medical certificate presented by the judge that the judge is healthy and can continue to occupy his office, the Minister of Justice has no right to decide whether such a judge should retire. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u136	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u137	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen! Law and Justice claims that the proposed law is designed to improve the functioning of common courts. However, the regulations quoted just now predict that some judges will retire prematurely - they will be the women mentioned or they will be judges, for whom the Minister of Justice will decide that they will not be able to rule further. Similarly, I find an amazing recipe in another part of this project. This provision allows for the posting from the courts to work at the office of the President, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Ministry of Justice. This is another departure of judges from the field of fundamentals, where they should be primarily concerned with judgment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What is the purpose of these provisions, what is the ratio of legis of such regulation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u138	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Marshal Barbara Dolniak, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u139	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, please. I have a question about art. 27 § 1 paragraph. 3. It concerns the possibility of dismissing the President and Vice-Presidents of the Court during their term of office in the case, and in paragraph 1. 3. it shall be noted that the performance of administrative supervision or the organisation of work in a court or a lower court is particularly low. I have a question about that. What indicators will determine this? What arguments have you taken into account, and what substantive elements will be included in the various grounds for appeal of the President or Vice-President mentioned in this paragraph? It's so vague that you can practically put everything in that mouth. 3. Therefore, since you have written it down, I have a question: What indicators will determine this, about low efficiency [[♪ The bell ♪]] organisation of work, and what substantive elements will be included in these descriptions in this paragraph? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u140	Thank you very much. Before asking a question, Mr Waldemar Buda, the Law and Justice Club, I wanted to welcome the students from the elementary school in Baranów, the district of Kępno, who are listening to our debate. We cordially greet you. [[Applause]] And I would like to invite you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u141	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask the Minister whether it is true that Mr Meysztowicz did not look very carefully and closely at our discussion today because he pointed out that the Minister would still have the power to block the judges of the Visitors, if any, while the Law and Justice Club had tabled an amendment in this regard. That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to ask whether it is true that Mr Myrcha, in turn, has not read the draft law and points out that the proposed law introduces the disclosure of claims of property, while in my view this only applies to statements made between 2 and 5 January so as to avoid disclosure of claims of property and what was introduced on 30 November 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u142	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u143	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'm a businessman, Minister, 35 years old. In a natural way, I have dealt with different courts, different judges, and I want to say one thing: changes are needed, they are necessary, because judges confuse independence with impunity. I've been running one trial for 15 years. The changes proposed by the States do not guarantee good law in Poland. The opinion of the Supreme Courts is devastating because it cannot be introduced as a system of random assignment of cases to judges and an equal, fair burden on their individual cases. Every judge is a specialist on different issues. It is the President of the court who must, should [[♪ The bell ♪]] to separate such cases because he knows about the predisposition of individual judges. I'd like to say what I said at the very beginning. These changes are needed because today the Presidents of the courts are so arrogant, I can say specifically, Shamotula, Poznań, that they make complaints against each other, and the money that employers, entrepreneurs spend on buying bets to get a hit, lie for years and no one bears the consequences. But that's not the way. Not this method, I would say, in such a model of calling the presidents of the court.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u144	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u145	You can't do that. This is, Minister, a bad project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u146	Thank you very much, sir. The last question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u147	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This project in the course of the year, PiS wants to cancel about 2 000 jobs. Judges. Question to the Ministry: Is it true - although it must be said that it will unfortunately be the facts - that such action, these great political cleansings prepared for this project will have a negative impact on the efficiency of the courts and will hit ordinary people? But it's not just that. Ladies and gentlemen! Pacta sunt servanda, contracts must be kept. Meanwhile, in the draft law, there is a provision introducing the possibility of expropriating IT companies from their computer programs. Such a proposal gives rise to obvious associations with the lawlessness of the Polish People's Republic and how entrepreneurs are treated by the PiS. He reports such a categorically contrary to the idea of the rule of law providing for the possibility of expropriation of companies. The Ministry must not hold entrepreneurs responsible for their errors in proceedings and contracts. And here's the question: What confidence in you [[♪ The bell ♪]] they are to have entrepreneurs, since the Polish State signs agreements with them on one principle and later, as it finds that it has badly constructed the contract, uses its power and expropriates the entrepreneurs. Ladies and gentlemen, if the Ministry wishes to have full rights to the programmes in use, which, in my view, is an idea to consider, it should simply buy these rights, not Bierut's mechanism, by law, to embezzle assets belonging to entrepreneurs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u148	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, representative of the applicants, please take the floor. [[Hey, buddy Bart, let's go!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u149	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For Poles security and justice are the most important, so we are obliged to improve the functioning of Polish courts. I am pleased that there is agreement on this at this meeting today during this debate. There is a great social expectation that such changes will be made by the Sejm of this term of office. So we owe it to the Poles and we keep this commitment. On behalf of the applicants, I would like to thank you for your work so far. I would like to thank you, first of all, because the project, after working in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, maintains solutions to improve the functioning of the courts, improves the transparency of their actions and makes judges independent from the Presidents of the courts. In my view, this offers the chance for the courts to act more quickly and more effectively, so that citizens' confidence in justice gradually increases. The changes that are retained in the draft and which I welcome are important: the drawing of cases, the principle of equal responsibilities for judges, the indistinguishability of the formation of the judge, the limitation of the power of the governors in the transfer of judges, the full and public declarations of property of judges, clear and based on the substantive grounds of the principle of promotion, the possibility for women of a general age, the universal retirement age, i.e. 60 years, the system of modern court management, the reduction of judicial bureaucracy, the rationalisation of the system of visits, the assessment of the operation of courts, the improvement of the efficiency of the use of funds collected in the context of monetary benefits from the perpetrators of the offences on the justice fund, and the introduction of institutions of the coordinators. international cooperation, European law and human rights. The last of these changes is the delegation of judges to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland. But thank you not only for the fact that in this respect the project does not deviate from the assumptions set out in our proposal, but also for all the votes in the discussion and proposals for further changes. The opinions submitted and during the discussion raised doubts about some of the institutions and regulations of the project. As a result of discussions in the subcommittee and committees, some of these doubts have been eliminated or mitigated. This discussion helped me to formulate amendments which, with the agreement of the subcommittee and committees, had already been adopted, and to suggest changes which had been tabled by the Law and Justice Club and, I hope, will be given a positive opinion at the additional committee meeting. I believe that all these amendments make the project better and give a better chance to carry out the reform. We included among others. when dismissing the Presidents of the Courts, the opinion of the National Judicial Council, which is binding in a situation where 2/3 of the members of the National Courts are in favour. In this respect, it seems that we have come to a large extent in line with the expectations formulated, among others. during discussions in this Chamber and later during the work of the committee. We gave up a binding opinion of the Minister of Justice when we appointed the Visitors. We added the need for an opinion by the General Assembly on the activities of these courts before the Presidents of these courts submit annual information on the activities of those courts. We have clarified the guidelines for the internal rules of the general courts. We've clarified the rules on the doctors of the jurors, the writing of these letters, the indications. We have also clarified issues concerning the handling of cases by delegated judges. We have created a mechanism to control the decisions of the Presidents of the Courts in holding back the allocation of further cases. We have indicated the rationale for deciding to allow the judge to continue his post once he has reached his retirement age. Finally, we have excluded the possibility of delegation of powers to the Secretary of State or the Undersecretary of State in cases of transfer of a judge in the cases referred to in Article. 75 § 2. The last thing I want to point out is that we have made the rules of appointment more flexible for the prosecutor's office and we have made the rules more precise for the transfer of judges. In other words, a significant part of the regulation that was adopted during the work of the subcommittee and the committee followed the expectation to limit the possibility of indirectly influencing the independence of judges. With an ideal solution, if we could perfectly separate what is caselaw from what is administration in courts, we would not have to consider this issue at all. However, since we do not live in the ideal world, this discussion was, I think, needed and I think that to a large extent these possibilities have been limited. I would like to comment on the statements made here by representatives of clubs and circles and to answer those questions from Members who were also addressed to me. As far as Mr Myrcha is concerned, in fact, it was a repeated statement from what Mr Myrcha said two weeks ago, and it was far beyond the subject of our work today, because it concerned... [[I didn't make a statement two weeks ago.]] ...a variety of issues relating to the Constitutional Tribunal. I also have the impression that the Member sees little of the changes, the differences between this project, which was presented two weeks ago, and the project that we have today and which, on many matters, I think, is limiting the space of the dispute. I am pleased to see that this project has some value, because he said that he is making amendments that can heal this law and not only ask for a vote against it. I appreciate the gesture. With regard to Mr Jachnik's statement on behalf of the Kukiz Club15, he sees this depth of change only in terms of personal issues. Let me disagree with that. I will repeat, but only to signal: These changes, which I think are, however, a qualitative change in relation to the current state, are the randomness of cases, the principle of consistency of composition, a level playing field for judges, but limiting these administrative activities of courts, even by limiting the scope of the visit. These are all changes that change the functioning of the justice system, have nothing to do with personal issues. The changes I mentioned earlier were accepted in the subcommittee and committee, and therefore the allegation that there was such a roller in the committee and that what was put forward in the initial project was actually repeated, I consider it inappropriate. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is no way that a judge of a regional court can become President of an appeal court. But it's just a minor correction. The honourable Member has once again raised important issues. Firstly, he pointed out that if a random assignment of cases is introduced in the Act, it cannot be so that it remains only a certain request. He pointed out, in his view, the fiction of the current mechanism for the drawing of cases in criminal matters. I consider the doubts he has raised to be important and I also wanted to ask the Minister to refer to this issue - firstly, to refer to the current situation, but also to consider this issue at the stage of the implementation of the law, because if we decide to make such a transition in order to draw lots, then we must ensure that this is not a fictional solution. To your question, I will comment on this at the right time. Mr Jachnik drew attention to several problems and regretted that they were not raised in the project. I have great respect for these proposals, but if you have not taken part in the work of the committee, you have not even given us a chance to discuss these issues. I do not believe that the issues that you have raised, Mr President - absent Member - are not important that they should not be discussed. You said that this part of the trial was important to the judges. We have a constitutional restriction on the integrity of judges here, so it would be difficult to put the judge's institution to the test, but I think that this does not preclude discussion about what should be the shape of asesura. As far as the accountability of judges for the duration is concerned, it is also a question of the Ministry of Justice to consider such a proposal, but it seems to me that in this project She couldn't be taken into account anymore because she was going beyond what this project was about. It is similar with the issue of psychiatric research for judges, such as I understand - as you expect, systemic. This is not what the project was planning, so it would be difficult to make a change in this area in the context of this change that we are currently debating. However, I repeat that I believe that these issues which you have indicated are important and should be discussed publicly. Your Marshal, Barbara Dolniak, has also begun her speech from this observation, this thesis that this is only about staff matters in courts and that these HR decisions affect court ruling. I would remind you that when it comes to administration, the supervision of the Minister of Justice does not raise doubts, but the case law should remain under particular protection of the Constitution. I don't think this project is going to change what's been in force until now. You point out that there is a lack of clarity regarding the efficiency of the action that may be the basis for the appeal of the President of the Court. This is a true but unsolvable argument, as it is also previously formulated in the law of the grounds, e.g. The one about the good of the justice system is out of focus. The Minister shall take political responsibility in interpreting this condition. The reasons are that the decision should not be arbitrary, but there is no way of knowing precisely what the good of justice is in any case or what efficiency is. We entrust a degree of evaluation to the Minister, but I would point out that there is no news in this regard. It was also the case that here the premise was careless and the decision was made by the Minister of Justice. As far as the Minister's influence on visitors is concerned, I have put forward a proposal for a change here. If the committee gives a positive opinion today, and the High House agrees, this proposal for a binding minister's opinion on the appointment of Visitors will be abandoned, so I hope that your expectations will be met in this respect. You're talking about court fees being too high. I would like to thank the Ministry of Justice for this remark, and I would also like to draw the attention of the Ministry of Justice, so that this aspect may be - perhaps already - considered in further discussions on justice. Again, as in the case of Mr Myrcha, I appreciate that you assume that at least part of these legal solutions are rational solutions and therefore you are making amendments that could partially improve this proposal. You said: even in part, but nevertheless I appreciate that you also share the view that even in your assessment at least some of these solutions can be assessed positively. With regard to Mr Paszyk's position, there is full agreement here on the diagnosis that there is a need for deep judicial reform. The Member has doubts as to whether the prescription is the best. This can be discussed. The Member did not participate in the work of the committee or the subcommittee, and I assume that he was not entirely interested in improving these changes in the law or at least pointing out the directions in which these and subsequent amendments should go. This argument is therefore a little bit literal and is not supported in the work of the committee or the subcommittee. I share the view that during the Congress of Polish Lawyers there were too many emotions. I think it would be better if there was more merriment, a calm discussion, in particular on a project that is currently being examined and not just a general one. With regard to Mr Protasiewicz's speech and voice, these were mostly general political imbalances. He also drew attention to the demands put forward by his circle. However, they have been taken into account to some extent, even in such a way that, in the event of the removal of the Presidents of the courts, we have adopted the principle that the opinion of the National Council of Courts in certain situations will be binding on the Minister. Janusz Sanocki's statement cheers us to continue our work on justice, because he said that the law is good, that the changes are good, but we need to go a step further. He called for a broad debate on the election of judges. I can see that a few years ago such a discussion did not take place at all, and now this demand is becoming more and more frequent. I do not know whether this request in such a form is possible in the current constitutional state, but it is certainly possible for us to wonder how to increase the impact of society on the exercise of justice and to concreteise this regulation, which is in the Constitution and is to a limited extent applicable in practice. I am unable to answer the questions of Furga and Golbik because they did not ask them, but I will move on to those who have appeared. Namely, why ceding duties to secretaries and undersecretaries of state - asked the question of Mrs Zofia Czernow. That's an important question. No matter how the Ministry of Justice is organised, there is no escape from some degree of division between the Minister and his deputies. This applies not only to the Ministry of Justice, but to all ministries. And I think that because the system, the justice system, is becoming more and more complicated, there is more and more responsibilities, and there must be some form. This proposal, which we have proposed, and later because of the votes that we have made during the committee, we consider it appropriate. So the rule is, you can cede these responsibilities. On the other hand, if there are situations where it would not be appropriate for legal or non-legal reasons, such situations should be excluded. That's what we did, limiting that possibility when it comes to decisions on the transfer of a judge. The question of Mr Święcicki as regards the appointment of judges by the Minister of Justice. I can return to this observation, which has repeatedly returned, that in many European countries, among others. In Germany, this is the standard. Therefore, this is not a specific, unusual, unprecedented solution in democratic countries in Europe. As far as the question by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz is concerned, the question is so outdated that Mr Buda has tabled an amendment which I had already mentioned, namely to give up this binding opinion of the Minister of Justice when the Presidents appointed the courts of the Visitors. With regard to the voice of Mrs Stępień concerning the compulsory transition to retirement of women aged 60, in the guess of men aged 65, the principle is similar or similar to that of retirement at the age of 60 or 65. It is true, and in this sense I agree with the Member, that the only clean system is one century old and there is no possibility of extending, shortening or extending this period. If you'd taken such a radical assumption, then it wouldn't really be the problem you're talking about. However, the disadvantage of this solution is that then there would be no chance that judges, after reaching this age, which is the country's general retirement age, i.e. 60 years in the case of women and 65 men, would not be able to judge these judges, and we know that at least some of these people want to judge, has competence. There's a dilemma. We also discussed this issue in the committee. The only clean solution is that there is no possibility of shortening or extending, but it is a solution with this negative consequence that I have mentioned. That's why you have to weigh it somewhere, look for a mechanism that is an objective mechanism. We tried to make this mechanism objective, e.g. By limiting the records concerning jurors' doctors, indicating that there must always be a doctor's specialization, so that there is no arbitraryness here. [[Voice from the Chamber: The Members should also be concerned.]] As far as I'm concerned... You were talking about the MPs. I think this is a discussion about how to appoint. With Sanocki, we would first have to examine and decide whether this method of appointing one and the other should be the same, then these rules could also be the same. As long as it isn't, this argument isn't the strongest. Mr Gryglas' concern that many people will leave at the age of 60 or 65. Some judges will probably go away, but this is a similar situation to what happens when it comes to retirement at the age of 60 and 65. It's hard for me to imagine solutions that wouldn't allow judges to do that if they give it to people doing other jobs. This principle of equality should apply to all. If we assume that the general retirement age for women is 60 years old, for men 65 years old, then at least this basic principle should be the same for judges. It is also interesting to hear from Mr Gryglas' second point of view about the delegation of judges to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the President's Office. Firstly, I would like to say that this solution is something that is unique. There is an important problem, felt at the level of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the President's Chancellery, that such a professional factor is lacking, and such competence is held by judges. If this mechanism is within some reasonable limits, it will be individual individuals, I think it will be for the benefit of the Ministry and the President's Office, and consequently for the benefit of the State, because people with such high qualifications are lacking. I have already answered the question of your marshal, Mrs Dolniak. As regards Mr Buda's question, I think that these answers have been given to Mr Buda. It was interesting to see Mr Ajchler speak, in particular this very strong thesis that judges confuse independence with impunity, especially in the vicinity of Szamotuł and Poznań. I am a Member of Poznań and I know that such cases happen, but I must stand up for myself and say that not all judges confuse independence with impunity. I don't agree with a member of the Civic Platform here. On the other hand, I agree that sometimes such situations occur, and in such situations we should absolutely be fundamental. He has also raised another problem, namely the arrangements for randomness and equal burdening, whether these are reasonable rules. The truth is, if we lived in an ideal world and had the President of the Court, who is the ideal entity, based on the purest motivations and having full knowledge of the world, about the judges who are ruling, and indeed if he were to point out specific matters to particular judges, knowing their predisposition, knowing matters, this mechanism would work well, but we do not live in the ideal world. Firstly, the Presidents of the courts do not have the knowledge to know exactly which judge has the competence and the nature of the individual cases. Secondly, such a proposal would go beyond the social expectation of transparency. Randomity is because, as Mr Jachnik said, there is a social feeling that there are mechanisms that are illegal and, in any case, opaque when it comes to assigning cases to specific judges, that all of this, in short, is set up. If we do not want this kind of charge, we want more confidence in the justice system, we need to objectify this mechanism and that is why we draw cases. So this expectation you are talking about, this proposal in the ideal world would be possible to implement, in the real world, in Poland in 2017 - it seems to me - would only lead to a deepening of the problem of lack of trust in justice. [[Mr President, we are striving for ideal.]] Yeah, but we have to go out... we have to take the world as it is, not as we want it to be. One last question. The last questioner, Mr Suchoń, puts the thesis that the changes will lead to 2 000. personnel changes in courts. I do not know what the scope of personal changes in courts will be, but it seems to me that it will not be as big as it will be, but where it will be, I hope, it will improve the efficiency of the courts. The last question raised by Mr Suchon, namely the question of restricting property rights, the rights of IT companies to programmes that serve courts. We can agree that, in the past, many contracts with IT companies have been concluded by the Ministry of Justice in a way that is not entirely thought out or even unsophisticated. We also know that this has happened in many Western countries. This is due to the fact that computerisation is a relatively new phenomenon and in the first years, or even decades, it was not fully realised that the consequences of the functioning of the justice system and at the same time private entities provide software for courts. Therefore, for some time in the Western countries, we have seen a tendency to see, however, that, in view of the fact that it is very sensitive data collected by courts, it is carried out under full or fuller control of public authority or even under public authority. There is a problem with all the programs for which private companies have property rights. We are not introducing solutions which - I think - would be unfair, therefore it is not fair to compare to standards from the times of real socialism, because the expropriation mechanism is a mechanism widely accepted in democracy. We do not use full expropriation, but a similar institution, namely, allowing this ministry, in reality, to have these programs, but always with due compensation and always with the possibility that a company which considers that compensation is not right may turn to the court and pursue its affairs. Once again, I would like to thank you for your constructive cooperation with ladies and gentlemen, as well as with all the experts and participants in committee and subcommittee work. Mr Jachnik was not in the part where I answered his questions, which I consider important, but I cannot repeat it, so I am referring to the recording of his speech. If you have further questions, I am at your disposal. I encourage, as I encouraged at the beginning, two weeks ago during this initial debate, to try to approach constructively the projects proposed by the Law and Justice, to improve them, to avoid an approach that resembles attempts to torpedo, because changes in the justice system are necessary. We're responsible for them, we'll be accounted for. So even if we do not fully agree, let us try to make these changes the best possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u150	Thank you very much. As corrected, Mr Ajchler. You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u151	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I've asked the marshal to speak in correction mode. I didn't say that in all courts they behave as they do in the Shamots, that you have to build a special legislative mode. There is an individual case in Szamotuła that the President of the Court simply behaves unethically and when specific remarks of a patentor or interested person appear, he sends back already in advance, says that he can go and file a complaint against him. This is an outrage. This, on the other hand, is an incidental matter and it is difficult to say that all judges do so. But I would like to say the second thing to my colleague, rapporteur. I will risk saying that every head of the work establishment, which is the President of the Court, should, it is his duty, know all his judges, their predispositions and their quality of work. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm the manager of the workplace, too, and I know that if the judge uses the element...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u152	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u153	...passion and other good things, let's call it, the side of your judge, this sentence, this resolution will be...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u154	Thank you very much, Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u155	...probably balanced and fair, fair.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u156	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u157	And that's all I wanted to say. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u158	And in the correction procedure, Mr Suchoń. You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u159	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Representative of the Applicants. The problem is that officials knew perfectly well how to value property rights for individual programmes. It doesn't come from unawareness. The problem was that the state wanted to buy the programs, and at the same time did not want to spend too much, so graphically speaking, therefore very often it gave up on the purchase of property rights and therefore later all the costs that were related to, I would say, such a service provision of support for these programs. And now it is very wrong if you are trying by law to force an entrepreneur to accept an offer on the terms that you dictate, because if in the tender procedure the State as the office that these programs wanted to acquire, [[♪ The bell ♪]] it set the conditions, then the trader could set the appropriate price. Now you're gonna put them against the wall and send them back to the courts.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u160	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u161	This is absolutely wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u162	Thank you very much, sir. And now, please, the representative of the Ministry of Justice of Minister Łukasz Piebiak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u163	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will try briefly because the applicant's representative has been very thorough in addressing all the speeches and questions that have been asked here. I would just like to draw attention to a number of key issues that appear to be unnoticed or inadequately perceived in this debate. Well, you're concentrating, and I'm talking about opposition representatives, of course, on a few parts of this law, not wanting to see one thing. Firstly, the fact that changes are necessary is expected. And here there is no dispute from the right to the left in this room. Everyone thinks change is needed. [[That's right.]] And you're not paying attention to the fact that this bill really sets up the system as it should be, that is, the justice system. Or maybe it's the first step towards getting things back on their feet. The justice system should be set up in such a way that it is focused on the question of a judge, a single judge, so that this judge can provide the right working conditions for him to carry out his mission, that is to say, the administration of justice in an independent manner within the framework of an independent court. And that's the most important thing, I dare say, the things you'll find in this project. We're restricting the portability of judges. We are introducing the conditions on which this transfer of judges depends, of course without consent, is the transfer of judges between departments. You know, all of you, I think that this kind of action could be an action that could affect this very basic thing, which is the most important thing here, on judicial independence. It is possible, by transferring or even threatening the transfer of a judge, to influence in some way the way in which he carries out his basic mission, that is to say, justice. We are finally civilizing this issue. We say that in general the transfer without consent should not be, and if necessary, we consider in the first place e.g. internship. And that's an objective factor, that's what you can't manipulate. If we have five judges who are potentially to be transferred, we know which judges are the shortest. He's the easiest, for example. change the judicial pawn. And here there's no field for polemics, it's just that. Someone's ruling less, someone's ruling longer in a given category of cases. You're not paying attention to this country. You are not paying attention to a few elements that again indicate that the role of judge as judge is appreciated in this project, not as president, not as judge of the court of appeal or district court, because the value is the judge in charge of justice. And from this comes concrete solutions, e.g. such that a minor court judge may be the President of a higher court. It's not some aberration, it's just appreciating certain managerial or managerial powers that can appear in junior judges or judges who haven't just been promoted so far, and often they're experienced 40-, 50-year-old people, for some reason they're somewhere down there at the ladder, that is, in the district court. Indeed, this law allows an experienced judge of the district court to be promoted to an appeal court. Why? Yeah, well, it's important if someone's long and good. If so, there's no reason for him to have to climb that ladder, those rungs. Especially today, no one's questioning it, getting promoted to the Supreme Court, and not to an appeal court. After all, this system is highly illogical and what is in this project puts matters in the right place. If you can promote higher, it should be possible to promote lower. After all, the court of appeal is a court lower than the Supreme Court. We're introducing a rehabilitation benefit. For many years, the judicial community has called for such innovation, for it to be introduced into the law on the system of courts. It's finally happening. We are reducing the retirement age, the retirement age for women judges to this general rule of 60 and 65 years old. Of course, it is not that we force someone to retire, as some have said, because it is a law, not an obligation. Of course, there is a question of the decision of the Minister of Justice, whether someone who has already acquired special pension rights, because he is to continue this service or not to serve in a given court. But it doesn't come from some bad reason, it's because the judge is untransferable. You can't have a judge from an under-charged court where there's no need to transfer without his permission to an over-charged court. You can't, because the Constitution forbids. Very good. But in this situation, there's no need for a judge to work if he doesn't have a job, and at the same time he's fairly secure, because resting gives him the right to 75%. the last salary. And that's all it does, nothing else. I assume that in today's situation, when all or almost all courts are overloaded, such a lack of the Minister's consent will not occur often. Random assignment of cases. Weighting things. After all, it's quite a thing, and somehow it's slipping away. This is amazing. This is a constitutional standard in many Western European countries or the whole Western world, that the case cannot be manually allocated to someone, because it raises doubts why. It's a complete standard, and we didn't have that standard. He was quite inept in the Code of Criminal Procedure, we extend this standard to all cases. We're gonna run an IT raffle. There won't be any way to manipulate a judge's arraignment, which is to instigate suspicion that a judge has been appointed for the case. This is a fundamental matter, and somehow in this debate, it escapes. And you do not want to see that it is impossible to say that the minister's competence to appoint and dismiss the Presidents of the courts is a competence that violates the Constitution or leads the Minister through the Presidents to gain an unauthorised influence on judicial case law. Why? Because you have to read this law completely, because you have to see that the minister actually gets the dominant influence on staff policy in the position: presidents or vice-presidents of the courts, but at the same time the powers of the presidents and vice-presidents of the courts are limited. These competences are limited only to matters relating to the judicial administration. Therefore, it is not reasonable to invoke the votes which were cast in 1989, referring to the Polish People's Republic, to these reprehensible practices, that through the Presidents of the courts, the Ministry could influence and sometimes influence the actions of judges in the times of the Polish People's Republic, because then these Presidents of the courts had gigantic powers. They don't have them today, and they'll have even fewer after the law comes into force. These will be competences which in no way relate to the sphere of case law. It is therefore illegal to refer to statements which have been made in a completely different legal state in support of the claim that the Minister has an influence on the case law here. In fact, in this bill, we limit unnecessary things. Planning visits and periodic evaluations - this whole bureaucracy is out. We're reducing the number of visitors and that's what it's meant to be, not to point out which visitor is good and which is bad. We're reducing the number of visitors because we're changing the mission of the visitors, because we're limiting them because we don't make them do unnecessary things, and therefore, since there are no unnecessary things, you need fewer visitors, ergo more judges can be sacrificed at 100%. court-martial work. And these are important things. So that this law, if it is read honestly and treated honestly in its entirety, defend itself. This law retains the constitutional standard. This bill ends with impossibility as regards the judicial administration. Good presidents will be able to be rewarded, bad presidents will be dismissed if they lead to, for example. The court, despite all the possibilities that have been created: financial, local, personal, will not function well. And how do we find out? For example, compare annual information, year to year, given regional court, given district court, given court of appeal and look at: dear Mr. President, dear Madam President, you have the same assets at your disposal, the most important assets: judges, referenda, assistants, buildings, etc., etc., you have the same influence or you have the same effect, and the court's results are twice as bad as in the neighborhood and are getting worse. So what does that mean? It means someone can't manage. If you can't manage, you don't stick to it, you just replace it, but it's just a matter of judicial administration, not case law. This has nothing to do with the ruling process and therefore there are no risks in this regard. I would like to thank everyone from this point on very warmly, especially the representative of the applicants, for their good cooperation and discussion, including the opposition, because a little bit of this law has been amended. It cost us a lot of time and effort, but I think the effect is good and it will serve Polish courts well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u164	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law on the System of General Courts and on certain other laws, prints Nos 1491 and 1591. As I mentioned in my first reading, this project is a long-awaited attempt to amend the law governing the general judicial system. There is nothing to hide that changes in the functioning of the justice system in Poland, and in particular in the functioning of the general court, are very necessary. In my speech today, I will address the issues that I put forward in my first speech, considering them crucial to the assessment of the project as a whole. First, the Act introduces the principle of random assignment of cases to judges and the principle of equal burden on judges in cases in order to ensure an equal and fair burden on the work of judges and to guarantee the impartiality of the parties to proceedings. That's a very good proposition. Currently, the requirement of random allocation applies only in criminal proceedings, and to a very limited extent. The other cases are assigned by the head of departments, and this is not always an assignment that ensures full transparency. Needless to say, the system allows abuse and does not build citizens' confidence in justice. The proposal was welcomed by many judges, in particular regional judges, who were often very burdened with work. The principle of random allocation of cases guarantees the parties access to the competent court. However, everything depends on the practical side of the implementation of this principle, namely the application of a special algorithm allocating the case within the ICT system. I'm asking the Minister to answer the questions. Has this algorithm been created yet? Are the relevant draft implementing acts and the draft IT programme ready to draw cases, ensuring that there is no possibility to influence the lottery draw? Secondly, the draft law adds an article. 47b, which introduces the principle of the invariability of the court. This proposal should also be assessed positively. At the moment, the unchangeable composition of the court ruling in civil proceedings is not regulated by law, and the practice in courts is subject to the orders of the Presidents of the courts or of the heads of departments who decide to assign cases to judges. As in the case of lots of cases, exceptions to this rule have also been introduced for situations such as: sickness or transfer of the judge. Thirdly, as with the issues discussed above, the committee adopted without major changes the model proposed in the draft law for the appointment of the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Courts. The proposal contained in the proposal assumes that the Minister of Justice will appoint the Presidents of the Appeals and District Courts without having to obtain an opinion on the appointments for these posts. The amendment also provides for the appointment by the Minister of Regional Courts and not, as is currently the case, by the competent President of the Court of Appeal. The proposals adopted by the committee are moving towards increasing the independence of the Presidents of the courts vis-à-vis the hierarchised judicial environment, which we believe will positively affect the functioning of the justice system in Poland. Attention, though. In our view, discussion is included in the article. 27 Paragraph 1 (1) of the appeal procedure for the Presidents of the courts, since the grounds for appeal are inconsequential, allowing discretion in the decision of the Minister to appeal. This issue needs to be clarified by setting clear criteria. Regardless of the above, we stand in the position of referring to the article. 4 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, that the optimal solution would be to elect the Presidents of the courts in general elections from among the candidates of judges who meet the conditions set out in the Act. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports the procedated bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u166	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm's offer... [[Objection.]] You're welcome. What is the objection, sir? [[Directions to the committee.]] Okay, thank you very much. We're gonna vote on this in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the National Academic Exchange Agency (print No 1550). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, Mr. Alexander Bobka, to present the justification for the project. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u167	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a bill on the National Academic Exchange Agency. I will start by saying that this law responds on the one hand to the needs, demands of the academic community, which sees an insufficient level of internationalisation of Polish science, Polish higher education. Although there are a lot of good things going on in this area in the last year, in recent years, it seems desirable to undertake some consolidation of activities in this area, consolidation of scholarship programmes, consolidation of state policy projects aiming at increasing internationalisation, because, as I said, despite the fact that a lot of very good things are happening, they are to some extent scattered. The Agency is to address this to some extent. This is, of course, not a monopoly, a centralisation, but a consolidation of actions. On the one hand, the Agency will take over certain activities or tasks that are already being carried out by existing institutions, notably by the Office for Recognition of Education and International Exchange. These are actions such as the implementation of certain government programs, the promotion of Polish language, the issue of recognition of Polish language. The Agency will also take over certain activities of the Ministry related to the recognition of diplomas, but above all this new quality and new objectives to be achieved here are related to the generation of quality programmes, addressed both to students and above all to PhD students. It's about programs related to so-called. Post-docami, which allow to a greater extent than so far trips or participation of Polish scientists in international projects, but also, what is important, we want to take into account the element of return in these programmes, so we want to prepare programmes which will encourage, allow to a greater extent than so far the continuation of the scientific career of outstanding scientists who have spent some time abroad, will enable the return and continuation of scientific careers in Poland, and we are thinking about quality programmes that will facilitate or promote cooperation between leading scientific units in Poland and abroad. The Agency, as I mentioned, will act whether its operation is planned on the one hand, primarily based on the resources available at the moment to the Office for the Recognition of International Education and Exchange, except that the Agency will have legal personality, hence the greater field and possibilities of action, will take over certain programmes and tasks from the Ministry, and will also be able to raise funds from European programmes during the first period of activity. Until the end of the perspective, by 2023, we predict that significant resources for achieving the intended objectives will be derived primarily from the Operational Programme of Knowledge, education and development. In a very fundamental way, I recommend the High House to lean on this project and to accept it kindly. I hope that this year, the Agency will start its activities and, from 2018 onwards, it will be able to achieve its objectives effectively. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u168	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Włodzimierz Bernacki, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u169	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was honored to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government draft law on the National Academic Exchange Agency with draft implementing acts, print No 1550. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As Professor Bobko said, in fact this project, this proposal made by the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, is aimed primarily at trying to bridge this huge gap between Polish science and world science after 1945. Then the most important, major universities, which remained in the territory of the Republic of Poland, i.e. the Warsaw University and the Jagiellonian University, were demoted and dismembered, while two major, significant universities, two significant university centres were located outside the territory of the Republic of Poland, in today's Ukraine or in today's Lithuania, and once the Soviet Union. We know the policy of communist governments towards Polish science: this policy was reduced to vassalism, to submission to possible projects, in quotes, scientific ones that appeared in the east of Europe. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At present, the policy pursued by the Ministry of Science and Higher Education is a policy in which scientific activity is financed primarily through a grant system. This function is performed by the National Centre for Research and Development, this function is performed by the National Centre for Science. Indeed, this third link, the National Academic Exchange Agency, was missing, which would facilitate the arrival of scholars from outside the borders of Poland, scholars with a world reputation. It is worth noting here that at present this percentage of researchers is only 2.4%. That's actually a small amount. Let us add that a large part of this profession is a profession from the countries of the former Eastern Block. This project is intended to finance the scientific process, but also the teaching process, of this stay of scholars from the world here, especially from the countries of Western Europe and the United States. The point is not only to pay for their stay, but also to pay the appropriate fee. Here, Minister, remember also in the future the rates of Polish scholars, which are not acceptable to Western European scholars. That's one aspect. The second aspect, which is very important and important, is related to facilitations or internationalization, in terms of teaching, teaching, and thus arriving in the territory of the Republic of Poland students from outside Poland. At present, this is about 3.5%. , with a European average of around 8% shows what deficits we really have here. I hope that this project, which is a project on the National Academic Exchange Agency, will greatly facilitate the possibility of studying or actually creating better conditions not only for incoming students, but also for scholars performing programs in foreign languages for students coming from the world. These are the basic functions to which the National Academic Exchange Agency will be set up; it is about the possibility of obtaining funds through projects for the implementation of these two issues. I have the honour to present the position of the club, so I would like to make it clear that the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is in favour of this project being examined in further stages. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u170	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u171	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. The draft Act on the National Agency for Academic Exchange from print No. 1550 assumes the establishment of a state institution with high powers - especially the director of this unit - while the lack of real... In any case, many tasks have not been identified. It is true that, for many years, academic communities have been calling for the creation of a model of other European institutions that would internationalise higher education, but the solutions proposed in the draft law differ far from the expectations of the environment. The Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland expressed this in its opinion on the project being consulted. What are the main concerns we would like to report as a club? First of all, the scope of the tasks is very shot, so there is a concern that these tasks and these problems can only be solved on the skin, because there is not enough time and opportunity to go deeper into them. Because if we look at the fact that, on the one hand, the provisions of the Act refer to the internationalisation of universities, the consideration, the award of scholarships and de facto grants, the recognition of diplomas, the promotion of the Polish language, the management of academic information - it is such a big gap that therefore doubts about the very unequal or insufficient resolution of these problems. Finally, I must say that this diversity of NAWA commissioned issues can simply be ignored and unsolved. Why would you say that? Well, I'm just going to point out three examples, because we don't find many questions in the bill, so at least a few examples that are disturbing. The legislator does not give a clear answer to what extent e.g. The Agency will address the issues of validation of qualifications and nostrils of diplomas obtained abroad. There are many more examples, many more doubts, in the already quoted opinion of the KRASP. There is also no answer regarding the participation of the widely defined non-academic sector, individuals such as hospitals, museums or companies, and the question is: Will scientists be able to undertake research there? There is no answer to a very important question. Another question. Speaking of native speakers, promotion of Polish language, what kind of native speaker is this supposed to be about? Are you a high school teacher or a school teacher at all? What kind of help is there? Or maybe it would be worth mentioning - but this is not in the bill - that NAWA will be interested in, also helping Polish cathedrals in the world? And finally, one more question, we do not find an answer to it, and the question is extremely important: What are the relationships - after all, they need to be defined - between NAWA and NCBR, NCN or even universities? Because it's only affected, too. However, I understand that all these questions can be answered in committee and improved by this bill, but we would expect something more perfect. Finally, the last problem is the issue of financing. The funding is to be from the funds that are allocated to the recognition office, because the entire office will be transferred, to the knowledge program, education, development, but also huge money, the lion's share of the money for college for the outstanding is to be transferred to NAWA. So what about these students? Can we improve, improve the quality of universities, improve the level of universities if we do not invest in those young people who are outstanding? I ask you to answer that question. We are very concerned about such treatment after the stepmother's distinguished students. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm almost done, Marshal. Finally, it must be said - it is said that the project does not produce financial consequences - that this is not true. Because the board is supposed to be 6-person, but there is supposed to be a huge, dozen-member board to be funded, and finally every project will be evaluated by experts, certainly not volontaristically. These measures are not calculated. So, in conclusion, naturally the project is worth tilting and, as I said, we will work and we will correct it, but in this condition passed on to the first reading it has a lot of ambiguities and still raises a lot of doubts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u172	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u173	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I present the position of the Kukiz club15 in relation to the Act on the National Academic Exchange Agency. Setting up an entity like the agency makes sense. Indeed, there is a need to increase the internationalisation of Polish science, but there are at least a few issues that need to be clarified. Polish science cannot act as an orphan, nor can it be judged only by the prism of certain indicators, e.g. publications in highly scored journals and affiliating outstanding international scientists at specific universities. There are widespread abuses in this area. Or situations that question the value of such a criterion - to publish in a highly scored magazine, you simply have to pay for it. The same is true when it comes to the so-called. quoting. Many scientists around the world have established such cooperatives and quoted each other. There are also some research fields that are preferred by international gremia, and this makes accepted indicators of evaluation of Polish science unreliable. It raises doubts about questioning and disregarding the justification for setting up a scientific cooperation agency with countries directly neighbouring Poland - Ukraine, Slovakia, Belarus, Russia and the Czech Republic. How does this apply to Poland's cooperation within the Visegrad Group? At the same time, such an approach also undermines the sense of cooperation undertaken by Polish universities in this direction, indicates their artificial character - the indicator of internationalization is necessary for the parameterization of universities. The specific solutions proposed in the Act raises doubts. In my opinion, the competences imposed on the agency fall within the competence of universities. In the light of the position of the Polish Accreditation Commission, universities are either to have or develop principles of recognition of higher education and academic degrees, and in the act they receive the competences of NAWA. Will it be another entity with such qualifications outside universities? The case is so important that the logic of the tasks imposed on the Agency in relation to the eligibility of applications for funding makes it difficult to doubt the reliability of the assessment of education status and degrees. What is so shocking about the granting of funding for applications submitted to the Agency? The fact that such proposals do not have to be subject to substantive, but to formal assessment. What will be the criterion of qualification with the same formal standards: draw or any choice by the director of the agency under the authority of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education? The next question concerns the composition of the Board of Agencies. In the project it is written that it will be composed of, among others.: representative of the Minister responsible for higher education, point 2 and the Minister responsible for science, point 3. In the Council of Ministers, we have only the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. Is this department getting ready to split up? A matter of great doubt concerns the competence of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education to appoint from among the members of the Board the Chairman of the Board and his deputy. I'll bet it's gonna be a representative of that ministry. In the draft law, the provisions concerning e.g. anti-nepotism. The relationship between people working in the agency is clearly formulated, although it is necessary to ask ourselves whether it is so wrong in Poland to understand the problem of nepotism that it needs to be formulated so unambiguously, but praise is given to Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin. It is very good to note that the director of the agency or its deputy must not be persons associated with the apparatus of repression of the People's Republic of Poland. However, this provision should also be extended to the members of the board of agencies, where there may already be tevus and esbecs. In general, this is a good direction. The law should be refined in the committee, for which the Kukiz club is in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u174	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u175	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! In times of globalisation and modern technologies enabling foreign distance cooperation and thus establishing scientific contacts are invaluable. Nowadays, it is not unusual that we are working together with a scientist from Japan or the United States. The question of the internationalisation of Polish science, the mobility of Polish scientists and cooperation between institutions should be one of the fundamentals for every person aiming at the development of Poland, therefore the creation and definition of tasks of the National Agency for Academic Exchange is a step in the right direction, but of course this project should not be treated uncritically. When reading the bill and opinions about it, you can notice elements that should be discussed extensively. The solutions related to grants and scholarships for students, PhD students and researchers are unclear, e.g. sources of funding are unclear. The situation regarding cooperation with other foundations and other entities, which also offer different forms of scholarships and grants, is also unclear. It is also difficult to say whether other institutions that are not subordinate to the Ministry of Science and Higher Education will be able to benefit from programs supervised by NAWA, the National Agency for Academic Cooperation. We are talking here about other research institutes that are not subject to ministries, cultural centres, as well as health centres. A lot of questions are raised by different backgrounds regarding the validation of qualifications, the nostrils of diplomas and the authentication of other qualifications. It is not clear how NAWA's competences would affect the competences of other actors. However, the most comments concern matters relating to the supervision of the Agency. Doubts are raised, for example. the question of selecting the Director and his dismissal. There may be doubts as to the requirements for the powers of the Director of the Agency. The question is whether only knowledge of English and a master's degree However, these are not very modest requirements. The way the President of the Council of Ministers elects a candidate is also flawed, not in an open competition. It should also require some experience, as well as experience in overseeing international cooperation institutions. However, transparency and choice on the basis of competences should be priorities for such projects. Similar doubts are raised by the composition and the way in which the Agency's board is appointed. Its composition should, to a greater extent, represent all stakeholders. We're worried that's not gonna happen. As regards the method of establishment, the composition does not appear to represent entities other than the Minister for Science and Higher Education. Another issue is the decisions on projects, grants, etc. The Act provides that publications will be subject only to the names of persons who have received funding. A good practice is to publish ranking lists. Unfortunately, this practice has been abandoned by the current ruling team. We are not sure whether they really receive the best projects or those that have been written by the right people. It is also worth considering the location of the National Agency for Academic Cooperation in a city other than Warsaw. We already have good experience with the NCN, which is based in Krakow. It's a possibility. increase prestige, also increase contact with individuals of this type by other academic centers than Warsaw. I could propose here Łódź, my home town, which is a vibrant academic centre, and on the other hand it is located very close to Warsaw. It is very well connected not only with Warsaw, but also with other academic centres and other parts of Poland. North-south highways, east-west highways do their thing. By the way. Recently, I have received such information, which, of course, I cannot fully confirm, that a small group of Poles who work in institutes and universities abroad receives more European grants, from the European Union than all scientists working in Poland. It shows one thing. It shows, firstly, how important international cooperation is and, secondly, how much we still have to do. I hope that the vocation of NAWA can also affect this situation. We could also consider how the Ministry of Science and Higher Education should be more supportive of researchers seeking European grants. And there's another line. Of course, we should... I still have such a deep feeling that both the degree of internationalisation of Polish universities, the participation of Polish scientists in scholarships, and their presence in other institutions are still very inadequate. International cooperation is, to be honest, the key to the creation of Nobel-specific projects in Poland. That is why, of course, we will be in favour of putting this project on the committee, although [[♪ The bell ♪]] We don't think it's perfect.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u176	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Krystian Jarubas, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u177	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the government draft law on the National Academic Exchange Agency, print No 1550. Ladies and gentlemen! The quality of education, financial security, but also personal, are three important features that affect the choice of higher education by a foreigner. Foreign students are also a great form of promotion of our country, especially at a time when the PiS government spoils the image of Poland in the world. Poland is not... [[Voice from the room: Get to the point.]] Easy, easy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Voice from the room: No demagogy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u178	I'm asking for peace in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u179	Poland is neither at the forefront nor at the back when it comes to the number of foreign students. We're in a numerical ranking about inside, but we have ambitions to improve this result. This is certainly due to the fact that foreign students often support university budgets by paying tuition fees for school. Data collected by the rectors of large Polish universities show that, in a few years' time, the number of foreign students in Poland could be 10%. the general public. There is no denying that the level of scholarships also influences the arrival of students from abroad in Poland. As I understand it, the declarations of the government today are binding, and these relate to the increase of scholarships by several hundred zlotys and go further. NAWA is a new agency to take foreign students to Poland, but also Polish graduates who graduated abroad. According to CSO data, today there are mainly two cities in the optics of foreign students: Warsaw and Kraków. It is worth asking what idea the creators of the agency have to expand this list and to interest students also in universities in other Polish cities. The same goes for directions. How does NAWA plan to interest students other than popular management or medicine directions? There will probably be more questions in the process of working on a government project. One thing is certain today - the newly established agency cannot become another bridge for so-called. Misiewicz, people loyal to the PiS, but not familiar with the work. There's no consent for that. Ladies and gentlemen! The Polish People's Party Club gives this project a chance, but we will watch closely in the work of the committee how the work will be done for students and universities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u180	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u181	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law on the National Academic Exchange Agency. In particular, the contested bill establishes the National Academic Exchange Agency, which will pursue the objectives of the State in relation to the internationalisation of higher education and science, with the necessary resources. As part of the implementation of its mission, the Agency will be, among others, initiated and undertaken activities supporting international academic exchanges and the process of internationalisation of Polish universities and scientific units, as well as disseminating information about the Polish system of higher education and science. That's a very good solution. The establishment of an agency will make coordination a single institution. Current efforts to internationalise Polish science are scattered, which reduced the effectiveness of promoting the scientific achievements of Polish universities. Another problem arising from the current system is the lack of adaptation of the educational offer of our universities to the needs of students living in different geographical regions and the low level of funding for scholarships, which is not competitive with the financial assistance proposed by other European countries. The system also lacks one current information base on the scholarship offer for both outgoing and incoming students. The contested law facilitates the resolution of the problems presented. The activity of Poland in the international arena in disseminating scientific achievements or allowing the free use of foreign educational services is an important task and we should implement them not for the sake of the idea itself, but remembering that strengthening the quality of education builds the strength of our country. Currently, Poland has one of the lowest countries in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development levels of internationalisation of higher education. Polish scientists are not seen in international rankings, and the number of publications created in a foreign language leaves much to be desired. Low mobility of researchers, a small number of studies conducted in English and a small share of Poles in research projects of international rank make it necessary to make rapid but above all effective changes in the internationalization of Polish science. We also need to improve the employment rate of outstanding lecturers from abroad, which is what the proposed law is supposed to allow through, among others. negotiating salaries with them. The implementation, entry into force of the bill is intended to strengthen the position of Polish science in the world and indirectly contribute to the development of innovation in Poland, because the agency is to promote the Polish higher education system, implement a system of mobility programs and promote projects supporting universities in improving the quality of their educational offer. These actions in my opinion will bring tangible results in the form of viewing Poland as a dynamic academic centre in which it is worth studying. In view of the above, the Free and Solidarni area requests that the law be further processed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u182	Thank you very much, Member. Eight Members joined the questions. Does anyone else want to ask a question? If not, I'm closing the list. As the first Mr Norbert Obrycki, Civic Platform. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u183	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As a lively reminder, it reminds me of agencies that function and I know in Germany or Austria, and there in the name of such an agency is the name of the country. Please tell me: What led the applicants to call this agency, however, national rather than e.g. Poland, what would facilitate competition and cooperation and promote such an agency abroad? And I have a question for you about that. If we are to acquire and encourage foreign students to study in Poland, how will the agency - through what agendas, or alone, or in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with our embassies - conduct acquisitions and promote abroad? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u184	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u185	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The National Academic Exchange Agency will replace the Bureau of Recognition of Education and International Exchange, which will be liquidated. We do not know exactly what the budget of the new institution will be. Will the number of employees increase compared to the staff of the office? How much money will be spent on the institution's ongoing activities, and how much will be spent on scholarships? We are still talking about estimates, and the amounts given vary from a few to more than 100 million PLN. I think that at this stage of the bill's process, the Minister should have such information by now, so I'm asking you to zoom in on it. I would also ask you to explain how the legal status of the current office is not adapted to the current reality. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u186	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u187	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Act on the National Agency for Academic Exchange is a good change, long-awaited and necessary in the internationalization of higher education. In Poland, the level of internationalisation of science and higher education is far from sufficient in both quantitative and qualitative terms. Freedom of movement of persons and the possibility of using foreign educational services are the most important in the competition for the acquisition of talented young people. I have a question for the Minister: do similar solutions exist in the European Union? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u188	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u189	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! Both in the Minister's statements and in the explanatory memorandum to this law there was a very precise diagnosis of the situation which we have at the moment in the field of science and higher education, in particular the diagnosis of the state of internationalisation and the opening of Polish universities. Therefore, these actions, which are intended to improve the situation in this area, including such an important action as the establishment of the National Academic Exchange Agency, are necessary and expected by the academic community. The problem is, as usual, one fundamental issue: the measures that we intend to allocate to these tasks, the measures that will achieve this expected effect. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: Are the measures planned [[♪ The bell ♪]] will it be sufficient for these multi-textual actions? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u190	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u191	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As far as this project is concerned, I think it is really worth leaning over, sending it to the committee, because that is the position presented by Mrs Lubnauer. We believe that all activities that can lead to a situation in which Polish universities will come out of such a collapse, because I believe that if in the world ranking the highest recorded Polish university is at the level of five hundred, that is indeed very worrying, let us agree that all actions that are aimed at raising the rank of Polish universities will absolutely be supported by us. Of course, we are also wondering how this agency will operate financially, if there are already some funds in place to launch it, because we know that later [[♪ The bell ♪]] This budget will be prepared by the Council. And the question is, is there any reserve in the ministry for the launch of this agency? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u192	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Platform. She's not here. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u193	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The purpose of the establishment of the National Academic Exchange Agency is to effectively support higher education in its internationalisation. Today, the level of internationalisation is not very good, in short, not impressive. In the 2015/2016 academic year, the internationalisation rate for science and higher education was 4% with OECD average countries above 8%. This certainly requires corrective action, the repair of long-term negligence in this area. I have a question: Will the National Academic Exchange Agency be equipped with sufficiently effective tools to achieve its goals for the development of Polish science and higher education? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u194	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u195	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question. Due to the fact that the project under investigation involves the establishment of the National Agency for Academic Exchange, but at the same time the liquidation of the Office for Recognition of Education and International Exchange, I wanted to obtain information as to whether this undoubtedly beneficial change for Polish science would be linked to an increase in funds intended to strengthen the Polish higher education system. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u196	Thank you, Member. Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u197	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The purpose of this Act on the National Academic Exchange Agency is among others. dissemination of scientific achievements and increasing international activity. This activity is to promote our science and our universities in the world. On this occasion, I wanted to ask the Minister about a certain event that took place recently. One of the Polish state universities awarded the title of doctor honoris causa to self-government. We know that these unique decorations are reserved for the most outstanding people, for people of science and culture. Is such voluntarism, such freedom... Shouldn't giving away this special award be controlled by the Ministry of Science and Higher Education? Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u198	Thank you very much. [[You should be ashamed of yourself.]] Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u199	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to ask. I drew attention to the annexes and found with satisfaction that the project was consulted with 35 entities. Good. However, have any comments been taken into account? Because, as I said in my speech, the comments of the rectors' conference were not taken into account at all. So what is the relationship between the consultation and the project that has already been submitted for first reading? The second question concerns the enormous powers of the Director and the inability to appeal against his decision. Perhaps otherwise: the proposal may be re-examined, but, attention, only from the point of view of formal correctness. Therefore: Does this not significantly limit the correctness of the assessment of these proposals? Man is only human. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Every expert, too. Therefore, this possibility of appeal is such an opportunity - especially for young researchers - that good conclusions do not go away. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u200	Thank you very much, Member. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education of Minister Aleksander Bobka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u201	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Firstly, I would like to thank you very much for this discussion, for many valuable comments and questions. I'm gonna try to answer fairly syntheticly, maybe not all at once, because some of the comments were repeated. I understand and thank you precisely for the fact that, in fact, all clubs see clearly, they see the validity of this law. Some people see shortcomings, and we thank them for that too, and we will try to correct this bill eventually, although in our opinion it is quite well, to say the least, refined. But ad rem. As far as questions and doubts are concerned, the issue of a wide range of agency activities was raised. Indeed, it is true, but it is also due to the fact that the agency takes over part of the activity which is currently being carried out both by the office of recognition of education and by the ministry, so it is kind of taking over a certain inventory. Several of these activities are actually unchanged. There were questions or doubts about the recognition of diplomas or documents. We don't change anything about that. There's no new ideas here. This system has been functioning for years and some great controversy has not aroused. We don't change this system by the way. As far as Polish speakers are concerned, at the moment in the world, so to speak, about 100 people are sent every year to teach Polish language in various academic centres abroad. The Agency shall assume the supervision of this activity. We hope for more activity in this respect, that the promotion of the Polish language will be organised with greater momentum than ever before when this obligation is passed on. On the other hand, a slightly separate issue is the appointment or operation of cathedrals or some units dealing with Polish culture, or so-called. Polish studies at universities in the world. Here the initiative belongs to the Ministry or to the universities themselves, the truth which can establish contacts, agreements with their partners, and here the agency can at most through some programs as if to allow e.g. funding doctoral scholarships or providing other such tools. Oh, and on that occasion also a more general thought, which, as if indirectly responds to several or many issues. Namely, the agency primarily provides tools, provides opportunities. The beneficiaries of dedicated programmes or programmes announced here by the agency will be both individuals, i.e. students, scientists, doctoral students... They can benefit from many different institutions, especially universities, but not only research institutes, other institutions. So there will be programmes dedicated both to individuals and, to a lesser extent, to institutions, universities and schools. In this sense, it is as if the Agency extends the possibilities which use and quality of use are on the side of scientists and on the side of scientific institutions or universities. That is what I would like to make clear, and it is also like an answer or a response to at least a few of the issues that have emerged here in the discussion. Relationships with others. Yeah, that also talks about relationships with other actors. As far as relations with NCN and NCBR are concerned, as one of the Members here pointed out, this is actually complementing a certain spectrum of state agencies that work for the academic community, for Polish scholars. The name of the agency is also associated with this. Those agencies have a national adjective in their logo. Therefore, it is proposed that this agency, similarly, should be called the National Academic Exchange Agency. On the other hand, we predict that the translation or the English-language logo will appear as if it were a national translation, not a national translation, but a Polish agency. [[How? National - Polish?]] I mean, it's possible, and that's what we're expecting to do. Another question that has been raised is not so much in the questions, but in the statements of the honourable Member, about the study for the outstanding. I wouldn't want to have any longer argument here about this concept of study for the outstanding, which we found after our predecessors. I mean, I'm sure it's a good thing that our predecessors, the Minister, have reserved or provided the Minister of Finance with a special reserve in the state budget for the implementation of this programme. As for, I would say, some major goal is to increase funds for outstanding Polish students or scientists, we are grateful for the fact that such measures have been secured, while we have a slightly different look when it comes to a specific concept. The idea was to provide funding for very young people, i.e. de facto funding the best studies abroad in the best centres with a high probability that these people might not return to Poland. We also want to use these funds to promote outstanding Polish young scientists, but - as I mentioned in my speech - a very important element in our view is also the element of return. And that, without going into more detail, would be a significant difference here. This is also one of the elements of the Agency's envisaged budget. But about this, about the budget, in a minute. Now maybe it's about the budget and status, the relationship of the education recognition office, the BUWiWM, and the agency. Firstly, the legal status of the agency as a legal person offers more opportunities for simply acting on a subjective basis, signing agreements with beneficiaries, i.e. proceding roughly in the way that it appears in the case of the NCN or the NCBR. Here I would also like to say that many good solutions, when it comes to running competitions, awarding grants... We do not come up with some extraordinary solutions, rather we predict that all of this will be conducted in the way it works in other agencies, whether it is Polish or foreign. Besides, the idea or the idea of this agency isn't an outstanding or authorial project of ours either. This is to some extent modelled on whether it refers to what has worked out and what is functioning in the world. On the other hand, as far as the budget is concerned, the BUWiWM budget was less than PLN 40 million with several different activities. This budget, I mean... These are funds which are available to the Ministry of Science and Higher Education in the budget allocation. So this is like the first contribution to the establishment of an agency, in terms of budget, but also a certain inventory, in terms of jobs, mobility, you can say, also competence and experience. It's like the initial capital. In addition, this special-purpose reserve, which was intended for studies for outstanding students, will be developed for programmes profiled, especially for young students and researchers. This comes, we anticipate, as I also mentioned in my speech, even more than 50 million a year from the Operational Programme of Knowledge, education and development. In addition, there will be a redeployment of several posts, together with tasks, from the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, as well as several programmes currently implemented by the Ministry, e.g. Mobility Plus, a good, proven programme, will be from next year, we are planning to shift it, that is the budget of around 16 million a year, to NAWA, so that the summa summarum first forecast is that the budget of the national agency next year may be around 120 million with the budget of BUWiWM of less than 40 million, so that would be a three-fold increase. I would like to draw attention to one thing. We would like to move away from thinking about the agency in terms of only the amount of money spent, that the more money was spent, the better. The Agency shall have the possibility of actively acquiring funds from Union programmes. Maybe I didn't tell you about it, that's what I missed, and that's an important thing, which is that we're also planning a progressive evaluation of the agency's activities, and so also an evaluation in the context of the question, how much money spent actually serves to achieve the goal, it's been raised many times here, raising the level of internationalization, and thus also raising the level of Polish science. Having understood these doubts, which were even expressed in Mr Kukiz's comments, the comments were somewhat sceptical as to the objectivity of the assessments of the scientific level in general, we know that such a problem exists, but I will not be developing it at the moment. Oh, maybe one more little thing, but the important thing, I'd like to address. The state of Polish science may not be dazzling, but I would definitely argue, I would ask not to use such phrases as the collapse of Polish universities. This is not happening, it is not so bad, and even in many ways we can observe significant progress in this area in the last 20, 25 years. Consultations with stakeholders - they have been conducted, they have been carried out seriously and we are also planning to continue to consult the Agency's projects or programmes with the academic community. Many of these comments have been taken into account. At the moment, it would be difficult for me to comment more specifically on what has been included, but I can assure you that I myself held many discussions with the President of the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland and with the representatives of committees, professors who are responsible for internationalization there, so these discussions and consultations were very few and there will be more. We anticipate, even now, during the founding period or the construction of agencies, to ask the university to express its opinion and demand, as already in the first period, programmes which will be prepared and announced by the agency, probably the first, we hope, at the turn of 2017 and 2018. With regard to the composition of the board of agencies, or the Scientific Council, this is the system in which we operate, that they delegate their representatives of the Ministry to this board. The fact that the Minister is so taken into account, the Minister of Science and Education, as if one in two persons, delegates two representatives, is the result of the Law on Faculties, where the departments of science and higher education are separate, even though there is one ministry, and so this is the only reason, and practically the influence of the Minister of Science will be slightly greater than that of other ministries, but this does not seem to be the most important. There are also representatives of students and PhD students, the main board, just a conference of rectors, and thus representatives of the environment have formal empowerments. As I said, it is even more important to me than to formalize our determination to ensure that the agency's activities are correlated and really respond to the needs of the environment and provide this environment with effective tools to improve the quality of its activities. There was a question here, as if not entirely related to the subject, about the question of granting a doctorate of honoris causa. Indeed, Mr President, as if to follow history, I do not know, recent years or the last 50 years, there have been examples of controversial decisions by universities in Poland. Fortunately, there weren't a lot of them, but there have been decisions with which to argue, but I think that the idea that the ministry should censor this kind of university activity to some extent would, in my opinion, be a cure worse than a possible illness or possibly a case of controversy. This is university autonomy. As in other points one could discuss, I do not know about some framework of this autonomy, but as regards the question of the doctorate of honoris causa, I think that the ministry should nevertheless stay away from it. It is with all possible risks, however, that the autonomy of universities, senates and the environment should be put on the board. Yes, sir, I can see that. I think that's it. Oh, there was still a question from the PSL Member, an interest in regional centres. I would like to stress here that, in our design, the programmes that will be dedicated by the agency can and, we hope, will also benefit regional centres. I don't know if it's mostly, but I'm sure they'll be using regional centres. So this is a tool that can also be part of sustainable development in the field of science. The question has been asked, I think, by a modern Member, about the seat of the agency. We have seriously considered the location in a different place than Warsaw, but technical considerations - namely the archival resources that are needed for these several activities, especially which are currently being done in the BUWiWM - as if they determine the place in Warsaw. It would be quite burdensome to move a large archive to another city. That's why we decided that the seat of the agency should be the capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u202	Thank you very much. [[It could have been the Reichs.]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Aleksander Bobko: I can say that last year in Rzeszow, the Prime Minister announced for the first time the idea of setting up this agency. So that the Reichs have a contribution to history, to the beginning of history. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law on the National Agency for Academic Exchange, contained in print No. 1550, to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters (Print No 1562). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Jarosław Zieliński to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u203	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Government's draft law amending the Code of Conduct on Offences in Sejm Printing No. 1562, amends the article. 98 of this law through - that is the main intention of this amendment - to enable the person punished to pay a mandate, a fine imposed by means of a criminal mandate using instruments to implement non-cash payments. The story connected with the implementation of this concept is quite long, because it dates back to the 2008-2009 years. Similar solutions were already planned and their main objective was to simplify the procedure of imposing fines on persons only temporarily residing in the territory of the Republic of Poland. That was the starting point. It was the first recipient in the original plan of this change. Police experience in this area pointed to a number of difficulties and complications related to the application of the mandate procedure, as it became increasingly common practice to use the argument used by foreigners, which was that they did not have any means of payment in Polish currency. Currently, in this form, which the government presents to the High House, including the draft law amending the Code of Conduct in cases of misconduct, the addressee of these records will be both persons temporarily residing in the territory of the Republic of Poland, on which fines are imposed, as well as persons who are permanently resident in the territory of Poland, on which mandates are imposed in a credit form. In the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, it is stated that Article. A new law would be added to the Code of Criminal Procedure. Thus, in the proposed § 3a it shall be possible to pay a fine imposed by means of a cash or credit mandate in non-cash form using a payment card or other payment instrument. The wording of the proposed rules indicates that the payment of a fine in a non-cash form will be a voluntary solution from which the fine can be used, provided that the fine-making officer has the appropriate means to authorise such settlements. The need for this condition is due to the fact that the equipment in question will be gradually put into service by the authorised services and institutions. In the proposed § 3b It has been established that the costs associated with the transfer of funds to the relevant bank account in the case of non-cash fines will be punished. In § 3c it is proposed to require an officer imposing a fine to inform the punished person of the possibility of paying a fine imposed in the form of a cash or credit mandate in a non-cash form and the costs involved. The proposed solution, as I said, is addressed to all entities entitled to impose fines... Sorry, I haven't said that yet. Now that's what I want to emphasize. This is addressed to all entities entitled to impose fines by means of criminal mandates, but this will mostly concern the police, because this formation is due to its size, scope of action, scope of powers granted and the obligations imposed reveals the highest number of offences. In 2015 alone, police officers revealed more than 8 million such acts, with more than 5.5 million cases of criminal offences being subject to a mandate procedure. I would like to stress very clearly that the solutions proposed are that a fined person in the form of a mandate will be able to pay a fine in this form, but will not have to, of course, be able to do so by his own choice if a police officer, if the police have the means to do so. These devices will be introduced in an evolutionary manner, so it will certainly not be possible anywhere immediately, but we assume that already in the first stage the police will be equipped with a number of payment terminals which will allow the use of them primarily by police patrols in traffic. It is these fines that could first be paid using a non-cash form, a payment penalty or other instruments. A policeman - I have already recalled this information - will be forced to inform the punished person of the possibility and conditions of paying the criminal mandate in this form. I would like to stress that these provisions are, on the one hand, seeking to simplify the procedures and actions relating to the payment of fines in the form of a criminal mandate, which is increasingly being applied today, i.e. in the form of non-cash trading, using a payment card or other instrument, so this solution undoubtedly responds to technological progress and social expectation, but on the other hand it will also reduce the risks associated with suspicions and corruption behaviours, and, more broadly, will certainly reduce the risk of the grey zone and pathologies in this area. In addition, it should be recalled that the proposed amendment is part of the programme under the name "From paper to digital Poland', which follows from the Resolution No 14/2016 adopted by the Council of Ministers of 16 February 2016 "Plan for responsible development'. So I think that this proposed, but also the expected social change should be accepted and accepted by all parliamentary clubs of the Polish Sejm, that is what I ask. I am convinced that it will also be well received by the public, by those who may be affected by these changes. In view of the above, in briefly presenting this amendment - it is not in itself long, it contains two articles, and the first article introduces these changes, and the second article says that the bill after adoption would enter into force 14 days after its announcement, this project itself is, I believe, sufficiently clear, meaningful and I hope it will be accepted, and I do not have the impression that it is worth describing it in more detail, the case is also known from public space, from public debate, and it has been mentioned several times - I ask the High Sejm, on behalf of the Government, to adopt a draft law amending the Code of Conduct on Offences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u204	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u205	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to present a position on the presentation of the Government, amending the Code of Conduct on Offences in Printer No. 1562. In fact, it is a very informal legislative initiative, because it concerns only one article, Article. 98, the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters, but citizens and millions of citizens may be addressed by this legal standard. According to the justification of this law, in the mandate procedure that the police conduct, in 2015 it was concluded that such offences committed by persons were more than 5.5 million. Most of the time, of course, these are traffic violations, but not only. The conditions to be met are, of course, the voluntaryity of this kind of payment of a fine in a non-cash form, and the officer should inform the person to be punished as well as the technical possibilities on the faulty side if he is the holder of a payment card or other payment instrument. An even greater obligation here is for this authority, which applies, enforces fines in the procedure of the mandate, i.e. the necessity of having a billing authorization device. The person who is to apply this procedure should also give notice to the person blamed for the fact that the costs of the transaction in a non-cash form are borne by the punished person. These rules will be applied not only by police officers, but also by other services, inspections. To some extent they are already used by the Road Transport Inspection, as well as all guards, other inspections and services. Of course, the Law and Justice Club supports this submission. It will improve the mandate procedure, increase the collection of fines in this procedure. I think that this will also contribute to the fact that this direct execution will be more effective and more reckless a few minutes after the offence has been committed, and, as the Minister has already pointed out in this regard, there is a smaller scale of corruption risks. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support this presentation by government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u206	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Dorota Rutkowska, Civic Platform. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform will present our position on the government's draft amendment to the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters. Indeed, as the Minister and the previous Member mentioned, the amendment proposed by the Government is intended to enable offenders to pay fines in a non-cash form, by means of a payment card or other payment instrument, immediately on the spot, in a police car or directly to another officer, e.g. a municipal guard, if of course this one has a payment terminal. This provision, which is to be included in the article. The 98th Code does not impose an obligation on police officers to make the terminal available, the officer must only inform them that it is possible to accept the mandate in such a form on the spot and to provide the transaction costs because the costs associated with its authorisation and transfer to the relevant bank account will be punished. Nor does the provision impose a sanctioned obligation to pay a mandate in this form. He can use it, but he doesn't have to. Today, the rules provide for three types of mandates: cash, credit and default. People living in Poland are granted credit or default mandates which must be paid to the indicated bank account. The fines paid directly to an officer shall be issued only to foreigners. It is embarrassing when a person does not have the Polish currency. A policeman imposing a ticket must simply get her to the nearest ATM. This is often very cumbersome, especially. in the case of truck drivers. Once this amendment has entered into force, everyone will be able to pay the ticket by card. In general, the proposed amendments therefore aim at simplifying and speeding up the mandate procedure. Yes, Minister, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club obviously intends to support them, especially since this simplification process was launched during the times of the Civic Platform and PSL governments. I am talking about the possibility of making a deposit against the penalty imposed by the Road Transport Inspector by means of a payment card or the changes in the Tax Order which gave the possibility to pay cards in tax offices and other tax administrations, which significantly reduces the cost of collecting fees. Of course, there are some questions that we hope will be clarified or resolved during the legislative process. Firstly, the impact assessment shows that the implementation of these rules will follow, depending on how quickly the officers will be equipped with cash-free clearing facilities. In practice, this may mean that the rule is, and the possibility of paying a mandate with a card will be fiction. This may give rise to legitimate concerns about the weakness of the functioning of another very good solution. Therefore, please explain how long it will take to equip all entities with payment terminals. Secondly, we are also interested in how much these solutions will cost and how you intend to finance them. It's called $2,000. mobile terminals for the traffic itself. Is that enough, and what about the other actors? The question is also about other payment instruments, which are generally recorded in the Act. We understand that this is an opening for the future. When you can expect to pay with e.g. A smartphone? And one more question. The draft originally extended the term of office. Minister, why did you withdraw from these regulations? Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, as we are probably all well aware, in this term of office, the standard is that the most important laws, these systems also, are introduced by parliamentary projects, quickly, without the obligation to consult with anyone, while projects that are less important - such as this one, concerning very important, but certainly not the most important changes in our country - are government projects. The question is, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Isn't it so that just where you don't expect a controversy, there's a government project, and where these controversys...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u208	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u209	...are, it's a parliamentary project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u210	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u211	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Well, Commissioner, I must congratulate you for giving such a long speech on such a serious bill. Let me put it this way: the bill is obvious. We walk with time even because today people don't always carry cash. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to one thing. I have doubts about this and it may be worth wondering in the future whether such things should be regulated legally. That's one thing. And secondly, Minister, this is an appeal, on this occasion, that we should look at the Code of Offences next, because there is a strange situation in these matters. And she's also tied to the parking tickets. On the one hand, a police officer is a prosecutor, but on the other hand, he is usually the only credible witness. Those are two contradictory things, and they shouldn't have happened and basically a citizen... It is in cases of misdemeanor - various cases: road, for example noise, dogs bark about various other things - that they start to drag on cases in courts, because people disagree, and time is wasted. So I think it's time for him to come and think about it, too. Of course, we will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u212	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modernly, I am putting forward a position on the Law amending the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters. This law introduces the possibility of paying a fine imposed by means of a criminal mandate by means of a non-cash form and the use for this purpose of a payment card or other payment instrument. This change has been long awaited. Although the justification of this law indicates that this will generally apply to criminal mandates imposed on foreigners or non-resident persons, I think that this will largely serve to facilitate the regulation of such charges by all Polish citizens, hence the Modern Posel Club will support this government submission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u214	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u215	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Polish People's Party Club, just like colleagues and a colleague who has previously spoken on behalf of the clubs will support this bill. In our view, this is a solution to meet the time requirements, simply a solution to make life easier - in quotes - to administrations imposing mandates, but also a way of regulating the flow of these charges and regulations themselves. The bill defines the group of addressees or the addressee, indicates the mechanisms that will apply, ways of resolving. There is only a question and a call to follow the thoughts and the project also actions and to mainly the police, because this will concern the police, will soon be equipped with appropriate devices to enable these specific tasks to be carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u216	Thank you very much. Mr Ireneusz Gains, Frees and Solidarni have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u217	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters, print No. 1562. The proposed law provides for an amendment of the article. 98 Code of conduct for criminal offences, which consists in adding after § 3 further editorial units in the form of from § 3a to § 3c. These provisions provide facilities for the payment of a fine imposed by means of a criminal mandate through the introduction of a non-cash form of payment by payment card or other payment instrument. Until now, the only way to pay fines was in cash, which caused serious difficulties, among others. in the case of whether, first and foremost, foreigners who committed a misdemeanor and after punishment of a criminal mandate could not pay a fine because they did not have cash in Polish currency. Often these people were prepared to pay a fine using a payment card, but so far they have not been able to do so. The proposed proposal should be considered as a minor but very good change at the same time. With technological progress, public administrations should use electronic communication tools used for years in the private sector. The possibility of paying public-law claims with a credit card, in this case fines imposed in the form of a criminal mandate, should be introduced much earlier, but as we used to say, better late than never. It also welcomes the fact that Polish citizens, on whom only a credit mandate could be imposed so far, will also be able to benefit from this possibility, which should undoubtedly have a positive impact on the collection of fines. In addition, the proposed solution will be very positive in eliminating the practice of buying favor from authorities or police officers who caught the driver who committed the offence because such practices took place. So I think this solution will also have a very positive impact on possible exclusion from behavioral practice, let's call it corrupt towards police officers by people who have committed traffic offences. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Free and Solidarni Circle supports the bill submitted and requests that it be directed to further legislative work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u218	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Time for the question - two minutes. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u219	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The payment terminals in the police cars are not a new topic, and it is a good thing that he finally went to the Sejm. Its adoption entails specific costs for the Polish Police. I'd like to ask you how much it's gonna cost, how much it's gonna cost. I also wanted to ask you about this topic and in the context of events at the Wrocław police station about the purchase of cameras to be equipped with police officers. It's about uniform cameras and cameras installed in police cars, recording the course of police operations. I ask the Minister to present in writing the current state of implementation of the programme of modernisation of the services of the Ministry of Interior and Administration. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u220	Thank you very much. I'm asking you another question. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u221	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear Young People at the Gallery! In the amendments, Mr. Marshal, there is a provision in the Code of Conduct in cases of misconduct which states that a mandate can be paid with a card, provided that the officer has a terminal. So my question is, how many officers will be equipped with these terminals? My predecessor was talking about costs, and I'd like to add further to that terminal equipment to see if it's gonna affect policemen's salaries as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u222	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Kostusz, Civic Platform, has the floor. There's no envoy. Please, Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u223	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A brief question is that, as I have already mentioned, a percentage of the justification concerns criminal mandates issued to foreigners or non-resident persons. Do you have any calculations of the amount of these fines paid by foreigners or persons who are not resident in the Republic of Poland? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u224	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Before we proceed to the Minister's reply, I would like to tell you that a group of Hungarian parliamentarians is listening to our deliberations. Welcome. [[Applause]] Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Jarosław Zieliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u225	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First, I will start by asking this question or questioning whether there is a completely incomprehensible objection to me as to why this is a government initiative. It is difficult to reconcile opposition, as you can see: as a draft law states a group of Members - wrong, the government says - wrong. So figure out what's right. [[It's about standards. It's about standards.]] Let me remind you that both Members and the Government have the right of legislative initiative, so do not take this away from us. And this is an important bill, although it is a short but very important amendment and, as you said, I am addressing the representative of the Civic Platform - it will be an important facilitation for citizens, for Polish citizens, but also for foreigners. I discussed in my first presentation the benefits that will come from this law, from this amendment. This was also highlighted in the club speeches of the honourable Members. With regard to the way in which this amendment is implemented, the way in which this amendment is implemented - because in club speeches and questions this topic has appeared - I would like to say that not only the police, but also a whole range of other actors will be entitled to use this form of payment or the adoption of mandates. This includes, for example, customs and treasury services, Border Guards, State Sanitary Inspection, Railway Guards, State Labour Inspection, Forest Guard and Forest Service, Chief Inspector of Construction Supervision, Main Office of Measures, State Hunting Guards, Environmental Protection Inspection and many other entities. They are listed in the impact assessment accompanying the draft law. The police are one of the actors, of course an important subject, because they impose a significant number of criminal mandates. I've been quoting these numbers. By the way, I will reply immediately that we do not have such data at the moment to recall them, how many mandates were applied to foreigners, people who are not registered in Poland, foreigners, and what part was involved in Polish citizens. I think that information is to some extent available, but it's probably not going to be easy either. We must ask the various services, not only the police, but for today, at this point, I am not able to present it, Mr President. Please accept it with understanding. It's not a result of any bad will, it's just that I don't have that kind of data right now. As far as the police are concerned, I would like to stress that she was mentioned in the agreement. Here I am now moving on to the planned implementation, at least in the first stage, of the technical implementation of this power, which will be enshrined in the Act when it is adopted. The agreement I would like to mention was concluded between the Treasury, the Minister for Development and Finance and the National Settlement Chamber at the beginning of 2017. Within the framework of this agreement, inter alia. The police, because not only she, will be equipped free of charge, in any case it will not have implications for the budget, at the first payment terminals. There's gonna be 2,000 of them. 2,000. That's about the number of road patrols in 24 hours. We assumed there shouldn't be less than 2,000 or 4,000 police patrols in 24 hours. Officers. This is the result of experience, it comes from practice and how this affects road safety. That's the kind of analysis we've been running. And it is in this first stage that these road patrols would be equipped with payment terminals that would allow payment cards or other instruments to be paid. Here I answer the question about these other instruments. This is an open formula, so there may be other instruments. Technologies that are developing bring new solutions, but the smartphone will be able to pay right now, i.e. a card as well as a smartphone. So that this element is foreseen, but perhaps the development of technology will bring some other solutions and you will not need to change the law, because this entry is so large that it will possibly fit other instruments as well. The police are mentioned in this agreement, but also in the voivodship offices, marshals' offices, city and commune offices, district old offices. There are certain numerical parameters that will provide the basis for these entities to be equipped with payment terminals. These terminals are the law, not the duty. Therefore, different services will be able to buy them in the evolutionary process, probably buy them, perhaps there will be some programs that will support this equipment process, just as the programme I mentioned, which results from an agreement between the Minister of Development and Finance and the National Settlement Chamber, but I repeat: it will be a longer and evolutionary process. Before individual operators decide to introduce these terminals into their equipment, assessing the possibilities, costs, also the scale of needs, it will certainly take some time. We are happy that the police will be able to use it soon and that it will be possible in the first place on Polish roads. I will not give the possible costs at the moment, because it is difficult to define this ceiling, how many terminals would be needed by the services at which they would be needed, how the individual services and institutions would decide. By making use of what the law gives, entities entitled to impose criminal mandates will take appropriate decisions, and a citizen or a foreigner informed that this is possible will be able to benefit from it. This will not be an instrument - I think about payment terminals - at once very common use, but significant progress will be made here. This is the first important step, the rest will certainly be implemented in the future, and our task at this point is to create a legal basis for this possibility of non-cash payment of penalties imposed. And that's what the bill is about. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as other questions are concerned, these opposition issues, because that's how I take it, for example, about cameras, the modernisation program, maybe not the problem, maybe I said it out loud, but that's how I felt, because that's where Wrocław appeared in the background and that's how I picked it up, all the same, then of course we will provide information about the state of implementation of the modernisation programme. Let me remind you that the modernisation programme is in its initial phase. This is a 4-year programme, which will be implemented since 2017, so it has been implemented as of this year. Although I would like to remind you that salary increases have been introduced for uniformed officers, civil servants since 1 January 2017, as well as work related to these two other segments of the programme, i.e. with investments and renovations, i.e. with a higher level of infrastructure used by the service, as well as with the purchase of necessary equipment and equipment. Of course, this will be presented, as Mrs Navel expected, in writing. Please bear in mind that we still have 3.5 years of implementation of this programme and there are certain financial resources for each year. They're limited, you have to remember that too. With regard to cameras, of course, as we have announced, we will equip officers with camera recording events, police interventions, and we must also change the law here and work on this too has already begun. Because today it's in the regulations... And I assume, knowing the opposition's attitude, that this is where we're going to discuss a little bit. But I'm asking you to discuss the matter with concern, since you're proposing these cameras yourself. Because what I'm saying means we need to change the rules from a point of view so that these cameras can be used in private intervention. You're expecting cameras, but today's legislation doesn't allow that. In public places, yes, but not in non-public places. And we need to change the rules so that it's possible that there's no screaming that we're violating any civil rights or human rights, because there's gonna be a charge like that, perhaps, coming up. If we decide on cameras, then we need to reshape the rules in this area too. And it's a matter of choice as to how it should be. It seems to me that it is worth the effort to equip the police with cameras so that there is no discussion about the course of the event. But it will only make sense if we allow police officers in certain situations and conditions to use these cameras during intervention also outside public places where the police intervene. So much for the answers to the questions that have been asked. What was expected about the information to be presented in writing, I took note of and realised the possibilities that we have today in relation to the rhythm of the time that passes. And we're gonna talk about other things during work... [[Voice from the Chamber: The mandate procedures that were originally?]] Oh, yeah, that's right. I'm just gonna finish with the thought that we're probably gonna talk about the other stuff during committee work, because there's probably gonna be committee work. Judging by what the clubs have said, the bill will be sent to the committee. As far as the other issues that were at the starting point are concerned, they will be consummated in other legislative solutions on which work is underway. So that we decided to take this step so that quickly and without any major controversy, I think this solution is already in place. On the other hand, the latter case will be consummated in another legislative amendment, of course in a government project. I no longer want to say what department it is, because it is that several resorts are working on these issues, so it will be included in a larger whole, Madam, more amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u226	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! These amendments to the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters are intended to introduce facilities for the payment of a fine imposed by means of a criminal mandate by the introduction of a non-cash form and the use of a payment card or other payment instrument for this purpose. It follows from the justification of the project that the payment of a fine imposed by means of a non-cash criminal mandate will be a voluntary solution from which the fine can be used, provided that the officer imposing the fine has the appropriate means to authorise such accounts. How long has it been planned to equip officers with payment terminals? What will be the total cost of purchasing these devices and the subsequent cost of servicing them? Will the right to pay non-cash fines apply only to penalties imposed by police officers? Will other authorities also be provided with adequate infrastructure and powers in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u228	Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, directs the Government's draft law amending the Code of Conduct for Offences in Print No. 1562 to the Extraordinary Commission for Changes in Codifications for consideration. I would like to inform you that our debate is being listened to by students from primary school no. 7 in Jaworzno, whom we warmly welcome. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on bailiffs (print No 1582). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Marcin Warchoł to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u229	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Way of Youth! The proposed law aims to restore confidence in the profession of bailiff as a public officer. That's the first target. And the second goal is to extend supervision of the bailiffs. The bailiff finally becomes a public servant, a public authority. We're restoring his rightful place. His place is in the country, not in the business. He is primarily to execute judgments on behalf of the Republic of Poland and is to apply coercive measures on behalf of the Republic of Poland. It is not from doing business, it is not from running your business and taking care of your business. He's called to the service, not to take care of his business, his business. We're clearing out the bailiffs. The execution fee will finally go to the state where it belongs and will not be the bailiff's salary. The bailiff will be paid, but for his service, his due service, his honest service, what we expect him to do. We're putting in clear statements of property. The bailiff isn't gonna be using assailants the way it's been. As far as detailed solutions are concerned, the proposed changes aim to introduce a model of small law firms, as I said earlier, in connection with the liquidation of these bailiff warehouses, and place emphasis on the personal execution of activities by the bailiff. The principle of personal performance of these activities is detailed in a number of solutions to this law, especially in the case of bailiffs. Asesura serves as a practical preparation for the profession, for the profession itself, not for helping the bailiff and proverbially carrying the briefcase behind the bailiff. In order to highlight the level of substantive knowledge of bailiffs, we accept the principle that the person performing this profession must be a lawyer, that is, we raise standards. The current rules have allowed bailiffs to pursue their profession by those who are not lawyers, which must be assessed negatively. We also raise the limit of the minimum age of the person appointed for this post from 26 to 28. This solution is modelled on solutions relating to the judge. At the same time, we reduce the upper limit of the age of the bailiff from 70 to 65 years, which is justified by the specificity of the work of the bailiff. It often requires physical immunity, physical condition, mental immunity, and therefore this decrease in age is necessary. Supervision of bailiffs is a multi-stage supervision: administrative, but also judic acid, supervisory and internal supervision of the bailiff's self-government. Solutions are proposed to increase the supervision of the Minister of Justice over the activities of bailiffs and bailiffs. At the same time, we define the precise rules of this supervision, we create an institution of supervision of the responsible President of the regional court. So, let's face it, we're moving away from the corporate model, we're restoring bailiffs to the state. The bailiffs are neither businessmen, nor court workers, nor persons who, at their own expense, conduct their own business on their own behalf. These are state officials and they are primarily responsible, both for costs and for service, and they are primarily responsible to you. In the project we introduce the principle that enforcement fees are to be charged to the state budget - as I mentioned - and the bailiff will receive a commission remuneration proportional to the amount of the fees collected. How has this worked in recent years? The execution fees in their entirety constituted the income of the bailiff running the firm. As a result, there has been a psychic situation: we have actually been dealing with the privatisation of public authority. Let us be clear that part of the public authority, part of the government has been privatized - in terms of charging, but not only. These fees should be a public tribute. They will not be able to conduct business activities of the National Chamber Council and other organs of the bailiff's self-government. At present, the local government can carry out such activities, which is critically assessed and with which we also end. The bailiffs, as I pointed out at the outset, are public officials and their activities cannot be directed towards maximizing profits. The bailiffs aren't businessmen, they're public officials. They should be in service, not in their private business. The proposed law also provides for the amendment of a number of laws, including: Code of civil procedure. We introduce police involvement in enforcement activities with the law of police intervention in the event of a finding of circumstances justifying suspicion of committing a crime, so that bailiffs have an armed arm of the state in a situation where there is a threat to their health or life. This change is also necessary to coordinate both the activities of the services - in this case the police - and the activities of the bailiffs. In order to improve the procedure, we also make a number of positive changes to the Code of Civil Procedure, which allow enforcement applications and complaints about bailiff activities on forms prepared by the Minister of Justice. The bailiff will record execution operations by means of devices that fix both the sound and the image. This also serves to introduce transparency, which also serves to introduce the principle of objectivity and transparency of these activities. At the same time, some evidence is being established in case the citizen has certain claims against the bailiff in the future. This evidence, collected in a transparent, clear and transparent manner, can be used if the bailiff, when performing his duties, exceeds his powers or fails to fulfil his duties. Finally, in the Law on the System of Universal Courts, we introduce the possibility of setting up enforcement departments in common courts, which will contribute to increasing the supervision of the Juditicians over the activities of bailiffs. These are specialized departments that will only serve this purpose. There will be judges who are prepared to perform this function. So far, we have had a situation that should also be assessed negatively: that is, the judge, in addition to performing his daily duties, had to step in at the same time into the judican supervision of the bailiffs - which distracted him from many other activities - which he did not perform on a daily basis and in which he was not specialized. In the name of the specialization of the justice system that we are betting on, we are introducing this solution. I ask the High House to adopt this positive draft law in order, as I mentioned, to restore respect for bailiffs and to introduce clear rules for supervision of bailiffs. In view of the above, please make a positive reference to this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u230	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u231	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position on the government draft law on bailiffs in print No. 1582. This project is a completely new draft law on bailiffs, repealing the previous law of 29 August 1997. The need for profound changes is due to many shortcomings and pathologies that we have dealt with regularly. We are fully aware that enforcement proceedings are, as it were, an extension, a continuation of judicial proceedings - and this is therefore a very important stage in the enforcement of the rights enshrined in court rulings. However, clear and transparent rules must apply here. First of all, it must be stressed that the bill retains the existing position of the bailiff, but it remains a public officer and is not an official included in the structure of the court. The project provides as a personal principle the execution of enforcement activities. So far, the bailiff may have used assesors in almost every way, so in many cases, when there were allegations of the correctness of his actions, the only person responsible was the asessor. Despite obtaining the economic equivalent of these activities, the bailiff often informally instructed the assessor and did not assume professional responsibility. The principle of the bailiff's personal action, in particular as regards field activities, is a guarantee of responsible action and within the limits of the law. In this respect, it is also worth pointing out that the law introduces restrictions - up to 60 days - on the replacements of the bailiff to which the court consents. Currently we are dealing with cases of substitutions lasting most of the year. Another proposed change is a region limiting the maximum area of action to the appeal district. This solution, which eliminates the uneven distribution of cases among bailiffs, reduces costly bailouts in remote areas of the country and significantly reduces the coincidence of executions. Another proposed change is to reduce the number of cases to 5 000, and in case of backlogs up to 2500. This will eliminate the so-called phenomenon. Chamber wholesalers, which by taking a very large number of cases made mistakes and errors, and the consequences of these errors and errors were not only the creditors and debtors, but often also third parties. The Act also strengthens the supervision and powers of the Minister of Justice through inter alia. a wide catalogue of grounds for suspension and cancellation of the bailiff, both mandatory and optional. The Act also introduces the disclosure of claims of property, which today is a standard among public officials. To a large extent, the Law related to civil proceedings contains the revised enforcement rules, which in most cases have been in force since 1 January 1965. This includes: Such cases, such as the repeal or suspension of immediate enforceability in a judgment by default, also concern the simplification of enforcement proceedings, enforcement applications forms, forms of complaints against the actions of the bailiff, the creation of a enforcement department in regional courts. It is all intended to improve the procedure so that judgments which are passed on behalf of the Republic of Poland are actually enforced. The Act shall enter into force on 1 January 2018, except that the provision of the Article. Point 260 (11), which concerns the preservation of bail-in operations by means of image and sound recording devices, will enter into force from 1 April 2018. The Law and Justice Club supports this presentation by the government and calls for it to be given a legislative run. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u232	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Wilk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u233	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to present my position on the government draft law on bailiffs, print No. 1582. We are talking about extensive regulation - the project itself consists of 303 articles. Because of the time constraints - we have 5 minutes - I will focus on a few aspects. The justification for the bill on bailiffs does not really specify what the overriding purpose of this law is. It refers to the attempt to organise and harmonise the current law, to create a transparent legal system for the regulation of judicial executions designed to restore confidence in the bailiff's profession and to increase supervision of bailiffs, but by examining the draft law, there is a lack of consistency between many of its rules and justifications. A reason for yourself, and a concrete solution for yourself. The draft law, in our opinion, is not sufficiently clear about the status of bailiff. Although the bailiff remains a public servant, the bailiff is a public servant, self-employed within a single law firm, and so it is, but the solution proposed by the government makes it possible to ask whether the bailiffs will actually carry out independent activities close to practicing a free profession, or whether they will be state officials remaining in the hidden employment relationship. The proposed solution to supervision of bailiffs raises doubts. It may lead to chaos and duplication of supervisory activities by individual supervisory authorities. It also appears that it is important to have the conflict of competence to appeal the bailiff and the grounds for disciplinary action against him, because according to the provisions of the draft, certain behaviours may sometimes be classified as disciplinary offences and, at other times, as grounds for appeal of the bailiff. I think that should be clarified. This project significantly limits the exercise of bail-outs by the assessors. The question is whether the introduction of such restrictions will not significantly impede the reliable preparation of the asessor to carry out his own execution tasks in the future. The project also includes the provision that execution activities carried out by the bailiff outside the law firm should be recorded by means of an image and sound recording device. Here, in turn, the question arises as to whether such a provision does not affect the right to privacy and the protection of the rights of the debtor, the creditor as well as third parties. I would also like to ask the Minister to refer to the data provided by the National Chamber Council, according to which 60% will be eliminated after the changes proposed by the Government in 2018 only. The firm, the job could lose up to $9,000. people employed in law firms, and the revenue of public finances may fall by about PLN 250 million per year. If such a scenario is realistic, and these are data, as stated by the National Chamber Council, prepared on the basis of independent analysis, it will also affect the rights of creditors, complicate their situation, reduce the availability of the firm, even in the context of the creditor's application for execution. The bailiffs run very different cases, including those concerning the execution of alimony. In conclusion, this draft law contains a number of inconsistent and incomprehensible provisions. Its adoption in the shape proposed by the government, instead of harmonisation, can create chaos and confusion in the entire judicial execution system, which in fact makes it harder for the proverbial average Kowalski to investigate his debts. I think this is the main flaw of this bill, this draft proposed by the government, prepared by the Ministry of Justice. In our view, the project is falsely convinced that it solves any problems related to the functioning of the judicial enforcement system. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u234	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u235	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present our position, Kukiz Club15, regarding the draft law on bailiffs, print No. 1582. It is impossible to talk about the draft from print No 1582 without reference to print No 1581, because both these separate drafts of laws, which will be examined consecutively, were created by a single law, dated 29 August 1997, Dz. U. z 2006 r., poz. 1138, late. zm. Well, the bailiffs bill was amended almost 40 times, including five times very wide. The extent of the bailiff's attachment changed and its capabilities changed. However, all these changes led, unfortunately, to the loosening of the bailiffs, to the so-called formation of the so-called. bailiff factories, as well as for many common bailiff crimes. In our view, the current changes are moving in the right direction. A model of small bailiffs is proposed and emphasis is placed on the personal performance of bailiffs by the bailiff. The bailiff remains a public official and cannot conduct business activities, de facto restrictions are introduced such as for judges, maybe with the exception of scientific, educational and scientific work. The proposal restores the principle that enforcement fees are to be charged to the State budget and that the bailiff will receive a commission remuneration fixed in proportion to the fees collected, depending on the result of his work. The law does not prejudge whether the bailiff is a VAT taxable person or not, at least as a result of the justification of the project. The consequence of the change is the change in the current nature of the bailiff's remuneration. Enforcement fees, fixed interest rates, will be replaced by the so-called remuneration. commission: 99% with enforcement fees not exceeding 500 000. zł and 60% with enforcement fees exceeding PLN 2 million. In this case, our doubts are raised by the fact that the Treasury is earning money from debtors, especially since the bailiffs will no longer be self-employed, but will be public officials paid by public funds. It's a bit of a construction, I'll admit honestly, it's not known what, because once he's a public officer, once he's a businessman, once he does court orders, which is, let's say, the Treasury. The draft also introduces the principle of giving the parties written instruction about their rights. Participation in police enforcement activities shall be introduced with the possibility of blocking executions when there is a breach of the law. Video recording of bailouts is being introduced. On the other hand, in the event of a manifest violation of the law, the costs of lodging a complaint against the bailiff's activities will be borne by the bailiff himself and I will give an example in my position, which I will present when discussing the next draft law. The rules of execution from movable property shall be amended by specifying precisely the directory of non-occupied movable property. The bailiff will have to be a lawyer, which hasn't happened yet. The minimum age from 26 to 28 years of age is also increased and the upper limit of the age of the bailiff is limited to 70 to 65 years of age. The possibility for the Ministry of Justice to revoke the bailiff from office shall be introduced if the law is grossly and persistently infringed. And this raises the question: What is gross and persistent violation of the law? This is usually never defined and is the reason for great discretion. The rules for the training of applicants are also being amended and it is specified that the maximum duration of the assesura will not be longer than 6 years, while so far the assessor can perform his activities indefinitely. The President of the Court of Appeal will be responsible for this, and this provision will not apply to assesors who started assesura before the entry into force of the Act. The project also sets out issues related to disciplinary responsibility. The Disciplinary Ombudsman will be appointed by the Minister of Justice from among the three candidates presented by the National Chambers Council. Kukiz,15 will support the referral of this draft law to the Legislative Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u236	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u237	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern I submit my position on the government draft law on bailiffs, print No. 1582. First of all, I would like to draw your attention - and this is addressed to Marshal Kuchciński - that we already have the second year of the 8th term of office of the Sejm and we are still surprised to throw laws, including government laws, and as is the case in this law on bailiffs, on Friday it was on the agenda of today's sitting of the Sejm. This is simply total mess, disrespect for the work of Members. But returning to the substance of the government's submission: the proposed solution is an attempt to regulate the overall system and the rules of serving as a bailiff. There is no doubt that the effectiveness of the enforcement of judgments handed down by the court has a significant impact on the assessment of the efficiency of justice. Therefore, it is important to shape the institution of the bailiff in order to ensure the effectiveness of the execution of judgments given on behalf of the Republic of Poland, which would also significantly improve the certainty of economic turnover and, on the other hand, to shape the enforcement procedure, including supervision of the activities of the bailiffs, in order to eliminate negative phenomena in the work of certain bailiffs, which were widely described by the media, although they were individual examples of infringements. Unfortunately, after an examination of the draft law, it is impossible to resist the impression that the legislator has set itself the objective not of rational reform of the system, of the rules of operation of the bailiffs, but of the attempt to liquidate most of the bailiffs, because this is the result of the amendments proposed in this Act, also in conjunction with the amendments to the next law, which will be proceded by the High House, on the costs of the bailiffs. It should also be pointed out in a number of opinions on this project that the law contains a vague definition of the legal statute of bailiffs. Some regulations indicate the status of a bailiff as a public officer who remains in a specific relationship with the State Treasury - I quote from the justification of the project - which receives commission remuneration deducted from enforcement fees which are public-law, and on the other hand, in the same act the rules indicate the abnormal working time of the bailiff, which is regulated only by the amount of tasks, the form of conducting business, i.e. the independent individual law firm, as well as the commission remuneration to be taxed on VAT. In the proposed law, contrary to what is justified by the justification that the President of the regional court is the highest and primary link of administrative supervision, such a body as hegemon is essentially the Minister of Justice. It is for the Minister of Justice that full competence is reserved, starting with the formulation of questions for the application exam, on almost practically dismissing bailiffs, and through unclear, vague concepts by which these powers are granted to the Minister of Justice in the bill. Minister! Since it has been said that the bailiff is a public officer, and this is indeed the case, it must also be said that the bailiff must be equipped with such organisational measures on behalf of the State that will allow him to carry out the tasks of a public officer. You, on the other hand, want to eat a cookie and have a cookie. You can't just do that. This law will introduce only chaos in enforcement proceedings, which could lead to a significant deterioration in the certainty of economic turnover as well as the rights of creditors. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u238	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u239	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Gentlemen of Ministers! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I would like to present our position on the government draft law on bailiffs. I would like to welcome the opinion expressed by the previous speaker, Mr Mirosław Pampuch, that once again you are putting forward a rather important project at the last proverbial moment. This isn't a good discussion. It also introduces a bad atmosphere to calmly prepare and talk about this procedated act, but it's kind of by the way. I will also agree with this because it happened earlier, that in some ways it is a practice. High Izbo! We were all appalled at one time by the loud matter of the occupation of the tractor by the bailiff at Mława. And it wasn't an isolated case. I'll also agree with that. The previous speakers said that many things that are reported to us in the parliamentary offices are related to the activity of the bailiff or to the contact between the debtor and the bailiff. And here it is undoubtedly necessary to appreciate the intentions of the justice department to try to make a specific assessment, to verify the regulations in force for the operation of bailiffs for 20 years. It is also important to reduce and eliminate these irregularities in the work of bailiffs. The scale of these irregularities actually shows the data, because if you put together 2010 of 2015, you can see a 340-percent increase in the number of cases to hold bailiffs accountable. In this context, increased control by regional courts appears reasonable in the project. This review by the Ministry of Justice is less appealing also in the context of today's law, which will increase the supervision of the Presidents of the courts. In fact, the bailiffs will be primarily supervised by the Ministry of Justice. A little bit much, gentlemen, is gonna fall on you guys as we keep going, and we're gonna be in charge of the justice department, but you're often stressing that you're gonna make it, so you're probably right and you're gonna make it. The question is only about the consequences. This project assumes that the bailiff will not be able to perform, among others. the functions of a member of the Management Board or of the Supervisory Board of the audit committee of a commercial law company. This also seems to be a step in the right direction, and it certainly is a common denominator that should connect us in the discussion. The bill assumes that the bailiff is to perform his activities personally and not through the applicants. This will ensure a higher standard of enforcement, which was entrusted to bailiffs, not to their employees. And here too, it is difficult to disagree on the idea, but it cannot be asked, ministers, as you can see, the career and improvement of future bailiffs, the apprenticeship in the light of such a serious limitation of their powers in bail companies. I think it would be worth paying attention to that in question. While praising the positive aspects, you cannot overlook the objections raised by the bailiffs themselves. As far as the economic side of the firm's operation is concerned, this should also be balanced, because not all bailiffs are people who operate outside the law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] To sum up the position that I am presenting on behalf of the Members' Club, I would like to say that we are in favour of talking about this project at committee level, and the details...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u240	Thank you, sir. Mr President, this is a beautiful ending, but I would ask you not to extend it because your time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u241	...will determine, Mr. Marshal, about support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u242	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Question time - 2 minutes. If any of you want to sign up, please, I'll close the list after the first question. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u243	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Effective execution of the bailiff is of primary importance to the creditor, as it provides him with the necessary resources, especially to sustain himself, for example. in the case of maintenance, and to conduct business activities, and to maintain the credit standing associated with that activity. I have a question for the Minister: Does the Ministry have an analysis of the impact of amending the law to creditors in terms of the effectiveness of redress? This is mainly about limiting the ability of the creditor to choose the bailiff, as well as introducing a much lower limit, i.e. to 2.5 thousand. the matters the bailiff may take in a given year. This seems to be an important barrier to the claims of entrepreneurs. At present, the creditors of the trader choose the bailiff from another part of the country because either they trust him or he shows good efficiency. The planned changes will prevent entrepreneurs from making such a choice. A far-reaching limitation for creditors also appears to be the introduction of a much lower limit on the cases that a bailiff may take in a given year. Unfortunately, the proposed new judicial debt recovery model can significantly reduce the efficiency of state claims and negatively affect entrepreneurship, particularly by aggravating the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises. As a result, it can be expected that, in order to recover debts from debtors, entrepreneurs, unable to obtain effective State aid, will be forced to turn to various recovery companies, which often operate on the border of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u244	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Polak, Law and Justice have the floor. There's no envoy. Mr Wojciech Król, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The question of the high income of bailiffs is often raised in the justification for the proposed changes. However, this applies to a limited number of large law firms, which may legally accept an unlimited number of cases from all over the country. This solution was introduced in 2007 by the Government of Law and Justice despite the opposition of the National Chamber Council and numerous warnings about the consequences of this solution. Question: "Do you think that your 2007 amendment to the bailiff's choice has made the situation of both debtors and creditors much worse than the local one?" Second question: On what basis does the Minister of Justice attribute to himself the powers that today belong to the court? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u246	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Three questions. The first refers to the issue of personal data. There's a proposal in the bill for the Minister of Justice to have full access to bail bonds, including personal data. The question is: What is the purpose of the Minister of Justice to have access to the personal data contained in the bailiff's records? And the second question related to personal data: Does the law provide that, so to speak, is it running a bit into the future, i.e. until next year, in which the European Union regulation on personal data is to enter into force? Are we going to have to update this bill soon in a few months? Another question: VAT. What's with the VAT? It is said that the bailiff is not to conduct an economic activity and VAT is appropriate for economic operators. It is said that the enforcement fee is to be the income of the state budget, for obvious reasons unwarranted, but already the commission of the bailiff, which is to be a specific employee, is to be entangled. So it's a little vague. What is the justification for creating such a complex law that is to be interpreted in many ways? Can't this be done in a clear way? I understand that a regulation or EU legislation requires us to wrestle certain activities, but do we have to blindly listen to even the dumbest ideas of the European Union? These are the three questions about two issues. Please answer me, please answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u248	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u249	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My question is: Does the Ministry of Justice intend to determine the number of cases that a bailiff can accept in a given courtroom? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u250	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u251	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am aware that some of the bailiffs have caused a lot of controversy and disapproval, but they were individual cases. I don't think that because of a few or even a dozen dishonest bailiffs we're going to lead to a total revolution, to a law that changes the whole range of responsibilities and shifts the bailiff's jurisdiction to the Minister of Justice. The question is whether it would be good to actually consider some provisions that could change this, as could have been done in the case of notary fees, for example, to establish new notarial taxes, so that it does not get too rich on the basis of such excessive rates. This could be considered by abstracting from the question in which form we are proceeding. This is where my friend from Modern City said the project was due on Friday. We're already working on it. The opposition is indeed difficult to prepare itself well to refer to this law, which has several hundred pages - for a good cause these are two laws - to show specifically the errors that are there, and we have no doubt about it. The question arises: Is there another sphere of public life that Minister Ziobro does not wish to subdue? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u252	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I would ask for such a clear answer regarding the status of a bailiff as a taxable person of VAT. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 149 you clearly state that the enforcement fee constitutes a non-tax public-law budget duty. In turn, the article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 The VAT Act makes it clear that, when dealing with authorities and public debts, we are dealing with the status of such a person as a non-payer of goods and services tax. On the other hand, you indicate in Article. 151 of this law for the creation of a tax liability by the tax collector, including the tax on goods and services. In the same law, you deny yourself in two neighbouring countries not far from the rules. Total chaos, a total mess that will definitely affect creditors' rights. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a clear answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u254	Thank you. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u255	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This project envisages that bailiffs will be deprived of the ability to carry out a number of activities commissioned by the bailiff themselves, including, for example, activities related to departure, activities outside the bailiff's office. Have you estimated how many asses will be fired in this regard because they will simply be unnecessary, as well as how much more time will the bailiff have to devote to carrying out the tasks he ordered the asessor to do? I understand that the motivation is that in more important matters, away, drastic, with a higher value of the estate, the coroner personally takes responsibility, and this is some noble intention, but on the other hand, is not the assailant also the person who should be responsible for his actions, for his actions, for his abuse, for his illegal activities? And so, like all of us, the more an assailant who works in a chamber law firm should be responsible for all of this, and this responsibility can be properly charged. What I'm saying is, do you really care how much the efficiency of the bailiffs' work will fall in terms of the number of cases they're doing, if they're going to have to replace the asses in a lot of activities right now? Has anyone counted how this will affect the work, how much time will the bailiffs now have to spend on what they have done by themselves? The second point is that the levy, which, according to this law, becomes a budget debt, a enforcement fee, and the bailiff only charges a commission of 99% to 60%. - the higher the turnover, the lower the commission. Can't you see it's some kind of very strong anti-motivation factor: if I take more cases, more I will work, then I will earn less and less. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And that's just gonna get ugly? We're trying to get the bailiffs to step up their business. Do you care about that?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u256	Thank you. Mrs Anna Elizabeth Sobecka, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u257	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Lawyers come to me asking me to resolve my doubts, which I am also doing here. So the questions are: What will state aid for young bailiffs look like? This declaration was made by the Minister of Justice at the last press conference. On what basis were enforcement fees fixed, in particular a minimum fee which is not revalorised according to the new law and is several times lower than currently? In view of the above, did the legislator assume that a number of law firms would fall when setting their fees? How is the bailiff to finance an unsuccessful enforcement procedure if, according to the proposed law, the revenues of the law firm from the charges fall on average by half? Will the State be subsidising deficit firms? If, in accordance with the position of the Minister of Finance, the bailiff is a taxable person of 23 percent VAT and the bill states that the enforcement fee is not subject to an increase of any additional charges, it should be assumed that this tax directly charges the bailiff and, above all, reduces the amount of enforcement fees. Is this, therefore, in line with the general principle that VAT remains neutral for the operator, added value and charged to the consumer or the target customer? In the event of the bailiff's resignation for economic reasons, will the State cover the costs associated with the possible liquidation of the firm and [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's gonna pay the bailiff's compensation? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u258	Thank you very much. I cordially greet teachers and students from the Economic and Gardening Schools in Tarnów, volunteers for the construction of hospices who listen to our debate. [[Applause]] Here you are, Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u259	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister, I'm directing you to your questions. Namely, I would like, as probably a crowd of my previous speakers, to find out what is de facto the status of a bailiff, what is the definition. Is this really the service function of a public official, or is it treated as a stand-alone, individual law firm whose commission will be taxed on VAT? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u260	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u261	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This is a very important bill. The bailiffs in our country have different opinions, but one thing is undeniable: this is a very important profession, they do very important activities. To my surprise there are a lot of phone calls, very many meetings are initiated by young bailiffs, starting in this profession, not affected by any such or other irregularities. They claim that they must prepare for longer than doctors. It is about 9 years of study, a number of different qualification trainings, etc. Hence, from all the meetings I had in preparation for today's meeting, one thing is that I personally, as a Member, correspond to the fact that the bailiff is an officer and enforces judgments in various cases, but there should be a very transparent system of paying bailiffs, charging for actions, and it is, as my previous speakers have shown, that I no longer want to repeat this, many contradictions. I don't want to mention and repeat here that really this important bill, this important bill was quickly and quickly shown. And they asked me very much to ask one question: Did the government of our country, regardless of the specialists of the PiS, Law and Justice, carry out and have an analysis of the consequences of this law? Because on the one hand, they're supposed to be officers, and on the other hand, they're being offered VAT. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is not an easy job, it is socially unacceptable, and therefore extreme caution should be on our part, on your part, not to fire a child with a bath. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u262	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Romankowski, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u263	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, I have a few questions, which are also dictated by meetings mainly with bailiffs who present many reservations and concerns about the bill. First question. Is the limitation of the powers of bailiffs proposed by the designer in Article. The 138 law on bailiffs will not prejudice the effectiveness and efficiency of executions, including the enforcement of alimony? Second question. Did the projector foresee the impact on the financing of the commercial activity carried out by the bailiff at the same time on the introduction of a VAT of 23% in the enforcement fee, the removal of parts of danin into the Treasury on the basis of the proposed article. 150 draft law and reduction of relative and fixed charges? Third question. Hasn't the legislator forgotten what the main purpose of the execution is, i.e. Forced implementation of enforcement titles for creditors providing legal and economic certainty? Fourth question. What if the firm doesn't have any income and the bailiff doesn't have enough money to pay the employees' wages and keep the firm running? Whether the State Treasury will participate to some extent in its maintenance, e.g. by financing employees' salaries? Fifth question. Aren't the proposed amendments dictated by media reports of bailiff infringements? And it is a collective responsibility, and it is borne by the entire professional group, which consists of 619 applicants, [[♪ The bell ♪]] 1808 bailiffs, 1544 bailiffs and over 13,000. Office staff. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u264	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Polak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u265	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The law on bailiffs, the rules in force concerning the functioning of bailiffs really require changes, because the scale of errors, irregularities that have been committed in the past, did not allow such a condition to be maintained any longer. I would like to ask the Minister whether, in connection with the proposed changes, of course, the vote of the National Chambers Council may not be so much involved in the discussion on this subject, because so many bailiffs in Poland do not have less than 2 000, but in the bailiff offices, thousands of people are already working in law firms, i.e. tens of thousands of people, civilian workers or assesors mentioned above. In view of the proposed changes, will this group of people lose their jobs? Wouldn't these smaller, just starting jobs, bailiffs just fall? Wouldn't the availability, effective enforcement in these smaller law firms be difficult for this reason? The bailiffs are probably gonna be okay. It would be good if, indeed, these changes, such as a commission, came in, but I mean those ordinary employees, assesons, who were hoping for further work, if you say so: a career in this profession. In view of the changes that have been made, unfortunately, those studies or applications that they have started... Will there not be problems with their continuation and implementation? Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u266	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Marcin Warchoł. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick How: If you don't mind, marshal, it's me.]] Okay, here you go, Minister Jak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u267	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Seym! I have written down your questions and meticulously, and I will answer them consistently. On the other hand, I would like us to start by trying to sort out all the matter and remember that the bailiff's office is an element, this is an instrument, an important instrument for the functioning of the state. And if we often express concern for creditors or concern for the future of bailiffs or those employed by bailiffs, we cannot forget that in this chain there is also the largest group, namely debtors, who have often been treated by bailiffs unceremoniously, the bailiffs have often used the lack of legal knowledge of those poor people who sometimes, as in life, may fall into trouble. But, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion... At least that's not how I see the role of the state. Then when a man has temporary problems, his wife leaves, his husband, there are problems with a disabled child, various problems happen in life, it is the task of the state to help such a man, reach out his hand, try to find a solution for this man to come out of debt, not to kill him. Sadly, our system often acted in such a way that such a man was haunted. Therefore, part of our intentions is focused on ensuring that executions in Poland are humane. Let me stress this once again, High Seym - Humanitarian. One at a time. You've noticed that we have a huge legal mess at the moment in the field of chamber executions. Since the last bail-out law, there have been over 50 amendments. Not much of a lawyer gets caught in this, let alone an ordinary man who doesn't have the money to pay a competent person to help him with all this. Hence, here we are today, the High Sejm, presenting the bill, which is the first unified project in 19 years and which collects all the existing ideas of the High Sejm, in one place collects all these problems and proposes a whole catalogue of solutions. Now, High Sejm, I would like to highlight a few of the most important areas that are organizing this bill. The first issue is the status of bailiff, which was often part of various discussions, public debates, so that you know - not only in Poland but also in Europe. There are different models of bailiff operation. One model is that the bailiff is simply a court official, the other model - that he is an entrepreneur, and the third model is a hybrid, the most popular model in Europe. And such a model has so far functioned in Poland. However, there was some stretching of the rope, i.e. The bailiffs claimed that where they are comfortable, they are public officials, and where they are comfortable, they are entrepreneurs. So on the one hand, we give the group a stamp that they can act on behalf of the Republic of Poland, break down someone's doors, take things away, take things away from someone in the assistance of a police officer, on behalf of the Republic of Poland, and on the other hand we say that they are actually entrepreneurs and this stamp does not matter at all. Therefore, it is our job to make the system clear, both for the creditor and for the debtor, and to make clear the principles of the bailiff's operation. We therefore prejudice in the Act so that there is no doubt that the bailiff is a public authority. But at the same time, for the sake of order, we also state that the bailiff government cannot conduct business. And this is the ordering of the first area, i.e. the status of the bailiff. The second important area, which is organized by this law, is so-called. professionalization of the profession. What's this all about? I do not know if my previous speaker, Minister Warchoł, mentioned to the High House that about 10% The bailiffs have no higher education. Can you imagine that? No M.A.? I'm not talking about 30% anymore. He doesn't have a law degree. This is, I understand, a discussion item, but about 10%. He doesn't have a higher education. And these are the raids from before the previous bailout bill. In addition, we have such a problem that bailiffs today use assesor very often. We'll get right to the problem. There are those bailiffs who practically don't walk away from each other, but they do everything for them. So how does this correspond to today's bill, in the 1997 bill, that the bailiff is doing business personally? Don't we see a contradiction here? Of course, I'm not saying we should rule out assesasors, but we need to find some proportions here, High Sejm. That's why we care about one thing when it comes to assesors, because there have been a lot of questions about this issue: we want new, young bailiffs, well-educated, but we just want to get rid of the situation that bailiff X sends only an asessor for 365 days a year. And then we have circuses like a tractor, right? That's why we say go ahead. And here we're still open to work on the committee, and all we care about is eliminating this pathology. Assesons should absolutely have access, learn this profession, but they can't feel... I mean, they can't become a tool or they can't completely replace in all the duties of the bailiff, which in the meantime, for example. conducts other economic activities, as permitted by the Act. You have also heard, High Sejm, about the discotheque run by one of the bailiffs. Is that how it's supposed to be? Not in my opinion. Here's another thing. As part of the professionalization of the profession in courts, special sections and departments will be created, which will be dedicated to execution, which will allow difficult enforcement cases, often involving human life, to be sent to judges specialized only in the field of execution. So there's not gonna be a situation where a judge, I don't know, a criminal who's been ruling in criminal matters all his life, will deal with execution cases, which is de facto civil cases. This is how we want to institutionally professionalise this profession. And this law also introduces this element. The next area that's organizing this bill, that's what I mentioned at the beginning on the basis of such a general clause, High Sejm. The point is, executions are supposed to be humane. And it is because such a number of complaints, the High Sejm, goes to the Ministry of Justice, but also to the media and to the state, how executions are carried out, that we say this: since the bailiff acts with the stamp of the state, on behalf of the state, often a policeman accompanies him during the execution, we are convinced that everything must be done in accordance with the law - then let us have nothing to hide. If we have the recording, and the debtor will question the bailiff's behaviour - but it may not only be the debtor, because the creditor will have e.g. Doubt it's there, there'll always be a recording. After all, this video will not be on the Internet so that everyone can see it, only in situations where there is a clear conflict between the parties, the court will have easy evidence to resolve such a conflict. On the other hand, I have no doubt that the introduction of such a rule will lead to an improvement in the quality of this service. By force, the recording will work preventively. The bailiff will try to comply with all the elements of the law, because he will know that everything is recorded and everything can be verified in court if any party has doubts. We also introduce the possibility of marking your presence for the police. I would not want such situations to occur, High Sejm, as part of the humanitarianization of this profession, for example. You pick up this example tractor in a policeman's assistant, and then the policeman says, "I saw something wrong, but I couldn't do anything because I have a duty to stand by the bailiff and do what the bailiff wants." So even if a policeman sees an obvious crime, there's nothing he can do because it's the law. That's not how the law should work in my opinion. However, a police officer should be able to at least make an entry in the protocol that he saw something wrong. And that's what this area is trying to do. We still judge within what I am saying that execution will not be possible from other objects than items of the debtor. So it's not going to be like in the famous case from Łódź, when the bailiff, if he couldn't get to the debtor, he went into a daughter who doesn't have any debts, right? No, here we decide that only things belonging to the debtor. We are also introducing a thing that may be funny to someone, but we believe that it is necessary in the context of the humanitarianization of this profession, i.e. the ability of the bailiff to send an apology, simply by formal means. In addition, we finally mention in the act household objects, which are not subject to execution. So it's not gonna be a question of whether he could have taken the heater or if he could have taken the baby's crib or if he could have taken the jar, the last food for the baby. We're also trying to sort this area out. The next thing I know, the next area that cleans up this bill is the elimination of the biggest pathology. One of the ventricular pathologies was so-called. Chamber wholesalers. High Sejm, really in this case No one's gonna convince me that if we're basically saying that the bailiff is supposed to run every move personally, and one bailiff is leading, I don't know, 10,000. cases a year, it's impossible for him to personally handle any such case. No one's gonna convince me. It just means that it's just a commercial wholesaler and we can forget about any quality of service. Besides, from our data - I hope that my colleagues reminded us of this - it appears that the most effective law firms, when it comes to the debtor and the creditor, are the small law firms, where the bailiffs are really trying and looking at every case, and they can also look for the creditor's assets, get involved, not: stamp, stamp and go. It doesn't matter that a man, a family of seven, a family of six, I have a stamp and he goes. That's not how it's supposed to work. This should not be the way any country should act. In addition, we limit the trade in debt, which is one of the great pathologies of this country. That means the bailiff will be able to charge the creditor for an unreasonable execution. Under this law, we are also talking about the liquidation of the old Commission, which has been the subject of many pathologies. I'm sure you've heard of it too, High Sejm. Therefore, in this law there will be a rule that auctions can only be carried out transparently and electronically so that every citizen can see what happens to the things that have been taken up in executions, so that it is not so that some people are planted and traded these things. Everything's supposed to be transparent. This is the Polish country. One more thing in the process of eliminating these major pathologies. In the case of reservations of the party to the assessment of movable property, we introduce an institution such as the mandatory valuation of the expert in order against this background. There were no bizarre conflicts either. You have heard that e.g. The car, which is obviously worth, I assume, 30,000, is sold at some incredibly low price. We also want to stop with this pathology, which is why we are introducing such institutions. The next area that we are ordering this law is the higher standards of evaluation of the system, i.e. the control of the whole system, hence the supervision of the responsible President of the court. So far, responsibility, High Sejm, has been blurry, because it wasn't really clear who was responsible. Today it will be clear that the President of the court in his area is responsible for several or several bailiffs who might have problems in this area. It's clear, it's clear to everyone. As part of raising the standards of evaluation of the system, there will also be the possibility of preventive control of the Minister of Justice, the obligation to control every law firm every 2 years or the obligation to participate in the audit of financial specialists so that there are no such situations - you have heard this country, the High Sejm - as in the previous year, when we had probably 3 million debts in one of the law firms. You couldn't find the money. Unfortunately, these are also elements of the pathology of this system that we want to repair. The next area that we're organizing is the entrance to stage two, i.e. to the next bill. This is very important. Namely, it is about transparent fees for both the creditor and the debtor. So far, High Sejm, it is that - I do not even want to blame the bailiffs - as you know, High Sejm, there are different rates and there are different rules for collecting so-called. enforcement fees. For example, if the bailiff takes it electronically, it's 8%. But the same thing as calling the same person to the law firm for the same thing or if he goes personally, that's 15%. . How would an ordinary man know that? And usually how does he get out? 15% Right? This is the complete pathology of this system. That's why we say it's the easiest way to make it clear to everyone at a single rate. Therefore, instead of 8% and 15% We're putting in one rate - 10%. This is clear to the creditor and the debtor. Even a person without legal education will be able to sit down on a card and count how much he really owes and discuss constructively with the bailiff. There's one thing I haven't said about humanizing this profession. I think it's very important. I think it's our big success, that it's in this bill. Namely, so far it has been, High Sejm... I'm gonna step back. It's just one thing. When a bailiff comes to a citizen for execution, it's usually a citizen, he owes, he gets shocked. Ventricular activities are not activities that are pleasant. But it was often that the bailiffs used the ignorance of the debtor, who did not know who to refer to, what his rights were, how many days he had. Therefore, we state in the bill that the bailiff will be obliged to present to the citizen a standardised form on which his rights will be recorded, and a form concerning a possible complaint against the bailiff. Even if the bailiff comes to someone with a basic education who's completely unaware of the legal situation... I'm sorry, it's often that people with basic education are more oriented than those with excellent education. But if such a person happens to be shocked, she will not know what to do, she will always get a standardised form in which the state informs the citizen about his rights. I believe that this should be the basis if we want to talk about a democratic legal state where all citizens are treated equally and know their rights. The law, High Sejm, should be simple. Just because we have hyperinflation of law in Poland through the European Union does not mean that it should be a rule. The law should be clear, clear to all parties to enforcement proceedings. That's the way it's supposed to be in this case. [[We'd be unemployed.]] And the last thing, High Sejm, in ordering the whole system and this bill, is to bow down also towards creditors, we understand that creditors are an important part of the whole procedure, that is, we promote effectiveness. We propose as a rule that the bailiff leads 2.5 thousand in the year. cases, but if any bailiff proves to be more than 35% effective, it could lead to 5,000. cases. We think it's a fair deal. So it's not a wholesaler. If some bailiff tries, works more than others, has effects - please, then he can take more cases. But we, as a state, are certain that this is not because he has a deal with some debt trader, but because he works harder than anybody else - and, please, we don't forbid him to make any more money either. And the last element, which is the subject of many questions, the High Sejm, which fell from this speaker, means the economic situation of the bailiffs and the fear that the bailiffs will fail after the adoption of this bill. [[The young ones, the young ones, the starters.]] I'll tell you about it, too, sir. But I want us to be clear and know what we're talking about. We have such an advantage that we have precise data from the Ministry of Finance on the economic situation of the bailiffs. I would like to say, High Sejm, that we are still waiting for 2016 data and in 2015 the average earnings of one bailiff - gross, but they only count 19% Line VAT, so far there has been no progressive rate - it was 45 thousand. zł. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] 45,000. zł. What I'm saying is it's twice as much as it is with the first Supreme Court President. Medium, I say. And as long as we can agree that the bailiff should generally make money, I don't know, more than the average legal counsel, because this profession is harder, I agree... [[But a bailiff or a law firm?]] But do we really want bailiffs to earn several times more than the most important judges in Poland? Is this a fair deal? This I leave to the High House... [[But for a law firm or a bailiff?]] ...the more that most of these measures, as I say, I mean maybe not most, some of these measures were certainly measures that made a debtor who wanted to get out of debt wishing to get a chance to get out of debt, had temporary work problems... Those were the funds that the bailiff got at his expense. And I think that the state should have a balanced system, and it should also give the debtor a chance to get out of debt if he really wants and wants to work hard. [[The average is a mistake.]] So here's the question about the assesaurs -- I've already answered them. Economic situation, yes. Controversy arouses geography. What I'm trying to say, High Sejm, is that this is what we're open to, and at second reading, I'm open to arguments. We've accepted it as a district rule, but I'm also open to going wider. There are arguments that talk about leaving it the way it is today. There are arguments behind the area. Let's discuss this on the committee. I'm absolutely open to a conversation here. This is not the issue that we are deciding here, let us consider this as a proposal in the bill. Another question - this question was rhetorical - why so quickly, why such a mess. This is an accusation that I completely cannot agree with because this bill, the High Sejm, has been known for over a year, its assumptions were announced more than a year ago, and on the RCL website there was almost a year. If the consultation lasts almost a year, I don't take it personally, I'm sorry, the argument that something is done quickly, in a hurry. On the contrary, I would resent that it took so long and that the consultations were held for so long. Many people who are waiting for this bill have resented us that this consultation took so long. Another question that came up from this podium - how we will help young bailiffs. Well, some say, senior bailiffs. We are accused that this bill is written under the young bailiffs. I believe that it is balanced, but I will present to the High Sejm arguments that show that it is, however, a gesture that there are many elements that could be treated as a gesture towards young bailiffs. Of course, the most important of them is that we introduce an age criterion and an education criterion, which will result in a new group of people, just young lawyers, entering this profession. But that's not what's important. Decommissioning of chamber wholesalers. Who will be the beneficiary of the liquidation of wholesalers, large firms? Of course, for those... It's not like these things are gonna go away. They'll share equally between smaller firms. And that should be the rule. The second argument is this bill, which we will be discussing in a moment, High Sejm. It's a bill that's gonna introduce this kind of thing, and I'm sorry it's called a progressive tax. For bailiffs who have fewer cases - smaller ones, and for bailiffs who... the more cases, the more taxes. Who is favored by such a system? This is in favour of these youngest bailiffs, but we also believe that they are conducive to the system. Because of this, for example, the reason I told the High Sejm, I mean, from our calculations, but also from the calculations of the National Chamber Council, it appears that the law firms leading to 2.5 thousand. Things are the most effective. It's just that. These are also the calculations of the KRK, you can ask, High Sejm, and we want them to be high quality and effectiveness. Another element is that we are lowering this racket for the National Chambers Council. Who is favored by this? It favors first and foremost... it favors young bailiffs too. There's 1% in today's bill. income and not less than PLN 400; in this law there is from 0.3%, not less than PLN 100, which is also a gesture towards these - it will certainly help them more who are just starting their business. Therefore, these are very specific examples which indicate that we do not disturb young bailiffs at all, on the contrary. After all, such a last rhetorical question, which came from Mr Kukiz here, means that this whole bill is not public. Isn't it like we're burdening some of the faults that we all know from TV, the whole professional group? And with all my determination, it's not. What does that say? This is demonstrated above all by data. Since 2010, the number of disciplinary proceedings against bailiffs has increased by 350%, i.e. not in our governments. Since 2010 - 350%. And I think we were all really aware that executions in Poland are going in the wrong direction. The system is non-transparent, the citizen does not understand any of this - neither the creditor nor the debtor, unless you are a great creditor who can afford lawyers. Our system should go towards a simple, transparent system, simple fees, as we propose a linear rate, so that execution is humane, but also so that the creditor knows where and what he can expect from the State if he pays a certain rate. Therefore, I am convinced that this project is organizing the Polish enforcement system, but we do not close to your arguments, we are ready to work during the second reading in the committee. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u268	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. Marshal of the Sejm after consulting... No, I'm sorry. In the discussion, a request was made to refer the draft to the Legislative Commission. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. I'm ordering a five-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min. 55 hours 18 min 07]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft bill on bail-out costs (Print No. 1581). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Marcin Warchoł to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u269	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Way of Youth! As Minister Patryk Jak suggested, the draft bill on the costs of bailiffs, Parliamentary printing No. 1581, is in line with the previous project we discussed. It introduces above all a fixed fee - 10% the benefits enforced. At the moment we have two levels of fees: 15% and 8%. The current model leads to irregularities that are very common in cases where 8% are due fee, higher fee is required, 15%. So we need a clear and transparent charging system, a system, as the Minister called it, linear, just a linear fee system of 10%. At the same time, however, in carrying out the judgment of the Constitutional Court P 3/14, we wanted to introduce a 3% privilege the benefits enforced. Namely, the Court found that, if the debtor had fulfilled his performance even before he was served with a notice of initiation or a call for voluntary enforcement, the bailiff would return to the creditor part of the fee paid in excess of PLN 200. Therefore, if the debtor's voluntary performance before the date of entry into force of the obligation is fulfilled, it should be rewarded and we introduce this premium of 3%. Simple, fair costs easy to count - this is the main principle of this project. This law, like the one in the previous project, has been amended more than 40 times since 1997, including five times in a comprehensive manner. She's lost her inner cohesion. As a result, cost enforcement causes many problems. A huge number of complaints against bailiffs are about costs. This project is supported by a transparent and, above all, a simple way of financing the judicial enforcement system. And the arrangements to motivate debtors to pay their debts voluntarily are, of course, on the ground that they are, of course, the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Court which I mentioned. So in the project apart from what I was talking about, the introduction of a specific rope charge in the form of 10% , it is proposed to introduce a rule whereby the level of both minimum and maximum charges and fixed charges is determined in the form of a fraction of the average remuneration, rather than as yet. At the same time, we rationalise the amount of enforcement fees, indicating that the minimum fee is PLN 100 and the maximum amount must not exceed PLN 50 000. zł. As regards the next amendment, namely the application for the execution of the money claim security and the European Account Preservation Order, we propose to maintain the principle that the creditor shall bear such a fee at the stage of the application. In the event of the execution of cash collateral, which consists in an obligation to pay a single or periodic sum of money to the eligible person, e.g. maintenance claims, the rules on fees for the execution of cash benefits will apply accordingly. This is because the execution of such a guarantee is no different from the execution procedure. In section IV of the project we standardize the exemption from the costs of the bailiffs and the institution of the reduction of the fee. The exemption may result from the exemption granted to the party from legal costs - the exemption from legal costs entails exemption from bail-in costs, hence some consequence, it is logical - or exemption from bail-in costs granted by the court or referee. We introduce a regulation according to which the State Treasury will not be obliged to pay enforcement fees. We also provide clear grounds for exemption from bail-in costs, indicating that the possibility of applying for such exemption applies only to those costs on which the bailiff's action depends. However, the exemption of the parties from the bail-in costs does not exempt them from the obligation to pay the enforcement fee for the execution of cash benefits and to reimburse the costs of enforcement proceedings to the other party where there is a legal basis for such a charge. The district court in which the bailiff operates shall pay the bailiff temporarily the sum corresponding to the amount of expenses and charges on which the bailiff's action depends. The institution of sizing - application for reduction - enforcement fee will continue to refer only to fees for the execution of cash benefits. It currently exists and the proposed provisions do not change its nature. We maintain the existing conditions for a reduction in the fee associated with the work of the bailiff and the property situation of the party required to pay the fee. We expressly provide for exemption from court fees in respect of the application for reduction of the enforcement fee, as well as complaints and complaints against the referee's rulings in these cases. Finally, in section V of the project we include amending, transitional and final provisions. They relate to the Code of Civil Procedure in the context of the regulation of the costs of enforcement proceedings and the Law on Judicial Costs in respect of the charge of the complaint against the actions of the bailiff and other court fees in enforcement proceedings. However, all proceedings shall be governed by the rules on fees levied in the event of redemption of enforcement proceedings at the creditor's request or as a result of his inactivity. The Council of Ministers adopted a draft law on 16 May this year. Following the transfer of the project to parliamentary work, no new comments were received. In view of the above, I ask the High House to accept this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u270	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position on the government proposal for a bill on bail-out costs. This project is a natural consequence of the reform of the bailiff's profession, as well as a new regulation on the costs of bailiffs. Let me remind you that there are separate regulations regarding judicial costs in civil matters and judicial costs in criminal matters. Not so long ago, because at the beginning of the 90s of the last century, the bailiff's costs were governed by a regulation of the Minister of Justice. The bailiff's expenses and fees are elements of the enforcement procedure, which in many cases decide whether or not to pursue the enforcement procedure. The project assumes a basic fee of 10% compared to today's two basic rates: 8% and 15% . Uniformity will undoubtedly simplify the procedure and statistically reduce it. It will also eliminate the selection of enforcement measures dictated by the amount of the enforcement fee. The rate of 5% should also be very positive. in the case of voluntary payment to the account and 3% in the case of payment within 14 days. This is a great incentive for voluntary fulfillment of the service. The existing provisions will apply to proceedings initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of the Act, subject to Article. 28 and 29. The Act will enter into force on 1 January 2018. Although the proposed changes should be positively assessed, in particular the reduction of the fee, the calculation requires that small firms in small towns, where there are long-distance departments, e.g. Just the civilian department or the perpetual books department, where there's one bailiff's office, or are these little bailiff's offices really gonna hold up? I know that in the discussion in the previous item, also in the statements of representatives of individual clubs and in the questions, the elements, questions which concerned precisely this law, also in the speech of Mr Patrick Jaki's Vice Minister of Justice. The amount of 45 thousand given by him. as an average of the earnings of the bailiffs, it is probably taken from those wholesalers, where there are revenues of more than PLN 5 million per year. Really, in cities in Podkarpacie, where in larger cities there are several chamber firms, there are no such earnings, the bailiffs do not earn 40,000, unless someone counts the income, but the costs of obtaining them have to be deducted from these revenues, and only then there will be income, and there is still VAT to be paid. So we're really open to discussion here. I think that at the meeting of the competent committee, we will come up with rules that will allow us to maintain those smaller or even very small bailiffs in 10 thousand cities, where there are small regional courts, where there are 4 and 5 judges, and where the bailiff, as he has 200 and 300 cases a year, considers that he had a very good year. These are not thousands or several thousand cases a year, as in large law firms in voivodship cities. Of course, the Law and Justice Club supports the proposed changes, subject to the fact that the issue of maintaining small law firms should be a priority, because it also depends on the effectiveness of the justice system in smaller towns. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u272	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u273	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the impression that we are acting a little bit on this bill under the influence of quite individual events, which were reprehensible and regrettable. They require some response and improvement of the system, but we sometimes apply such measures here, from wall to wall, i.e., I would say, disproportionate to the issues that should be solved. As for this part of the system change that is currently being discussed, I have reports here which show that these fee reductions are so significant, so drastic that many firms will simply cease to function properly. And according to current statistics, how their budget is presented, they could be on the downside. I'm going to start with a case that's already been discussed here, which is that we have 1544 law firms, and in these law firms there are more assesaurs than bailiffs. If it turns out that the work of these 1800 assessors must be done by the bailiffs themselves, it means that actually if all this work were replaced by the work of the bailiffs, then the bailiffs must do as much work as they do now as the assessors do, which is more. Even if this only applies to part of the weight of the asessors, it means that the bailiffs will do much less work. How can 1544 bailiffs do the work of 1800 assailants, since a large part of the time-consuming activities, especially those of departures, will now be transferred to bailiffs? So the productivity of the work here is going to drop very badly. The quota rates, the state says it's an advantage. The rate of quotas has this fundamental disadvantage that wages are rising - unless the PiS does not assume that wages are going to start to fall or are going to be stable across the country - and therefore the rates will have to be kept up-to-date by law. If these are statutory quota rates, unfortunately, they will need to be updated due to the fact that there will be an increase in wages - I, despite the PiS governments, assume that there will be an increase in wages. It will have to be kept up-to-date by law, and the law will have to be amended every time to raise and adapt quota rates to rising salaries. The issue of this progressive fee - in general, it raises doubts as to whether law firms can still be charged, and indeed the debtor at the end of this chain, with additional charges to the Treasury which you are introducing here, this 1% and up to 40% it grows as the turnover of the firm grows. Progressive taxation applies to profit and not to turnover. In this case, the greater the law firm, which, if it works well, may have more matters, what Minister Jak emphasized here, the more cases it will have, but at the same time it will have to pay more and more money to the Treasury, such that it will not actually be worth working well, increasing its business, because this racket reaches as high as 40%. I think that he is, first of all, unnecessary, second of all, he will be demotivating well-working firms, which in theory have the right to pursue more cases. The State wants to make money on this, on this fee, on the part that will remain in the Treasury, but in turn the financial situation of the firm will deteriorate so that there are estimates that the number of law firms may decrease by up to half, in particular the number of employees employed in law firms, assesors or administrative staff will generally decrease. So that the proceeds to the State Treasury from PIT, from contributions to pension and social funds will be lower and in total, per balance, the Treasury will lose on this too. Ladies and gentlemen, you must be aware that bailiffs are necessary. It's important to settle disputes amicably, get along with debtors, some negotiating formulas, but somewhere in the end there must be this scarecrow that if you don't pay for it, then the bailiff will come and enforce it. If we weaken this bail-out activity - I agree, civilise it, these various humanitarian steps I support, they are legitimate here, those proposed in this first law - if we make the bail-out industry even limp and there will be a lot less bailiffs, much more burdened and much less doing their job, then we will only encourage... This will be a temptation for people who want to abuse social trust, who incur debts and commitments without any intention of paying them back. In this way, we will weaken the confidence in economic activity, in various services, in various payments, in commitments. Total [[♪ The bell ♪]] it will have a very negative impact on the functioning of the economy, on confidence in the economy. So that I think that this bill just needs to be worked very carefully on the committees...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u274	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u275	...to preserve what is good and proportionate, but yet reject those actions that can lead to...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u276	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u277	...a breakdown in the functioning of an important area of economic life. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u278	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u279	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'll be honest with you, I'm a little surprised by this cry of Members over the fate of the bailiffs. Well, all the income data and indicators show that bailiffs make good money. They could be single... [[Young.]] Let's leave this age alone - those who are organized. In any case, the whole point is that so far there have been two basic rates, 8% and 15% . In general, mostly it was 8%. And if the bailiff was pulling it right, which means he was just nodding the debtor, it was 15%. . Now we're proposing a 10% rate. and I wonder if this rate is too high - whether it is still too high or whether the concept of a 10% maximum rate should be introduced. Why? Because we should go in such a way that the debtor and the creditor can get along. So, for example, he and the bailiff can determine that, for example, he's gonna pay his first installment at a time like this, and then he's gonna pay his next one at a time like this. Then the bailiff, with his permission, will charge him less money. It could be, for example. To put it this way, introduce a rate of 3% for debtors voluntarily repaying their debt within 14 days. I think this recipe will almost be dead. He'll only live for those who forgot to pay for something - they'll get it, they'll pay. There's a second rule that says if it's 14 days, if it's over 14 days, it'll be 5%. Here's the question again: What if the debtor wants to deal with the creditor? Half will be paid back, and the other half will be paid in installments, right? At this point, this will not result from the provision that he will be charged a rate of 5% Because it didn't go through the bailiff anymore, it's the other part. For example, someone owes $100,000, $50,000. He pulled the bailiff down, and in the meantime someone pays the 50,000, gets along with the creditor, that he's gonna pay him back the other part, but asks him to give him a year, and he's okay with it. And now the question is, why should the bailiff charge the 5%? of the next 50,000. Yeah, because the bailiff didn't do anything about it. If he makes any valuations or anything, there's obviously gonna be some costs, but it can't be that in any situation... It demobilizes debtors, and it's also to the detriment of creditors when it comes to getting along. Because there are often objective situations that do not allow the debtor to pay for various personal reasons, and then his situation, for example. The financials are changing. I just think... So far, ladies and gentlemen, we've had this case... I mean - and here I would like to get information from the ministry, because I would like to know - what value the bailiffs are in relation to the value of the overall amounts collected per year. Well, unfortunately, it can't be that way, it applies to entrepreneurs, and to individuals, that sending out a notice of seizure of a bank account - it just happens - it costs probably 10% at the moment. Here's another thing. What sanctions are provided for, because in my opinion sanctions are very... When bailiffs occupy several times more assets, this applies especially to entrepreneurs, which prevents them from doing business. Here I have an example - it was sent to the National Chamber Council on 16 February - with regard to the entrepreneur in Bielsko there were claims made by the entrepreneur from Ciechanów. He sued it. The value of claims is 60,000. zł, and the bailiff bought him 4 million PLN, practically including shares in companies in which he started selling. Well, what's the big deal? In situations like this, the bailiff takes care of everything that goes down. This is a multiple of this value. Of course, as far as this case is concerned, it is important to think carefully whether this is to be an appeal, because there are actually such areas where these cases are few and these courts are small, but here, I see, the ministry is in agreement that there may be discussion and reflection on this fact. I think it's gonna be real, not fake. So we'll be in favour of further work. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This project, however, we would ask that the Ministry also reflect on those points that I have questioned here. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u280	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u281	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club I present my position on the government draft bill on bail-out costs, print no. 1581. And here's a little correction for Mr Jachnik. Mr President, this is not a cry over the bad fate of the bailiffs, because these laws... The bailiff shall not carry out his duties on his own behalf and shall not collect the claim on his own account, but on behalf of the creditor. This is a concern for the effectiveness of executions, and therefore for the certainty of economic turnover, Mr President. It's just an explanation. On the other hand, I will also refer to Minister Jaki. The Minister's not here. It is dangerous to use statistics, because the Minister asked me to say that these laws, among others. are prepared as a result of an increase in the number of disciplinary proceedings among bailiffs between 2010 and 2015 by 350%. He just forgot to add that this increase is from 30 cases to 102 cases. If these 102 cases were compared to the number of cases that are being handled by bailiffs, i.e. 4,5 million, the number of disciplinary proceedings in relation to the number of cases represents 0,002%. So that the statistics are flawed, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] The statistics are flawed, so I would ask you not to mislead the High House here. On the other hand, in the current legal situation, the bail-in costs were divided into fees and expenses. It's being maintained. On the other hand, there were two rates of enforcement fees in respect of enforcement fees: basic - 15% and reduced to 8%. At the moment, these rates of enforcement fees are replaced by a fixed rate of 10% , and this should be considered a move in the right direction. This is a decisive simplification of the rules for the application of enforcement fees, with the exception of whether or not this rate of 10% it is appropriate or not, because of this - I share Mr Matusiewicz's view here - that these amounts, the average salary of the bailiffs in the amount of 47 thousand. Indeed, it is possible to refer only to wholesalers, not to all law firms in the country, because these law firms as of today or in 2016 - I quote for the National Chamber Council - is 1635, and so there has been a significant increase since 2015. It also affects average earnings. In addition, it should be noted that we still do not know whether these amounts include or do not include the tax on goods and services. I would remind you that this will be almost 20%, because this tax, according to the Supreme Court's judgment, is counted at 100, not at 100. It should also be considered appropriate to introduce preferences in case of voluntary provision by debtors. Up to 14 days it is a fee of 3% , over 14 days - of 5%. On the other hand, in the explanatory memorandum of the proposed law, I did not find any information as to why it was such a percentage, 3% and 5% , not another. There are no economic analyses here, at least I haven't met with such analyses. I hope that the Minister will try to clarify these issues during his work. I share the concern that actually small bailiffs, especially on the east wall, in less industrialized areas, or operating alone within one section, [[♪ The bell ♪]] a small court, especially a local court, because of these costs and enforcement charges will not be able to develop.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u282	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u283	But I take for a good coin the assurance of both the Minister and the Member...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u284	Mr President, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u285	...in terms of flexible working opportunities in Parliamentary committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u286	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u287	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party a position on the government draft bill on bail-out costs contained in print No. 1581. The aim of the proposed law is to introduce transparent rules for the financing of the judicial enforcement system and arrangements to motivate debtors to voluntarily repay the obligations identified by enforcement titles. The project also sets out the amount of the bail-in costs and the rules for carrying them, as well as the procedure for dealing with them. According to the project, the bail-in costs include the expenses of the bailiff in the course of the proceedings and the fees of the bailiffs. These will include enforcement fees and fees for other proceedings or other actions. Basically, the enforcement procedure and other proceedings conducted by the bailiff, e.g. for the purpose of drawing up an inventory, as well as other activities commissioned by the bailiff, which are not executional activities, e.g. service of letters. This means that the traditional allocation of costs into fees and expenses has been maintained. It is maintained that the final provision on the costs due to the bailiff is enforceable without a declaration of enforceability. However, the new solution is to indicate that no enforcement fee will be charged for the execution of bail-in costs. This will eliminate situations where the provisions on costs due are the basis for the initiation of separate enforcement proceedings, for an additional fee, before a bailiff other than the one who issued the order. It is undoubtedly, High Izbo, a good direction. I think that here - at least in most - we agree that it is not necessary to question the need to adopt a separate bill on the costs of bailiffs in order to put this matter in order, especially in view of the simultaneous preparation of a separate bill regulating the system and the rules governing the pursuit of the profession of bailiffs. It is undoubtedly appropriate to gather and organise the subject matter, including the issues that have emerged in connection with the practice of the last 20 years. The draft law on bail-out costs rationalises enforcement fees. The current profitability of bailiffs remains at odds with earnings in other legal professions. However, it is appropriate to agree with the President, Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, that it is relatively easy to fire a child with a bath on this issue. I, from the other end of Poland, from Wielkopolska, would also be able to point out at least a few examples, such as those indicated by Mr Matusiewicz, that this could lead to the fact that today's existing law firm will cease to exist in a moment, which could condemn potentially seeking help in this law firm to travel considerable distances in order to turn its affairs around. However, it should be noted that many firms, as we have said here, differ from this average in terms of profitability. As the bailiffs themselves are alarmed, this bill could lead to the collapse of many law firms. The authors of the bill in the explanatory memorandum wrote about bailiffs earning millions of zlotys. Well, it's actually worth it here, Minister, but watch out for the use of such arguments. Recently, the National Council of Komornicza presented a report prepared at its request on the basis of surveys conducted among bailiffs from all over Poland. According to this report, almost 60% of chamber firms will record a zero or negative result after the changes have been made. According to the report, operating difficulties will result in serious delays in recovery of outstanding debts, which could lead to negative economic and social consequences. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The crisis in the industry can also affect young people who are starting to learn in this profession. These are, of course, certain shortcomings. They should not obscure the essential objective...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u288	Thank you, sir. Time's up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u289	...which is worth taking, therefore, as in the case of the previous submission we declare as a parliamentary club the will to participate...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u290	Okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u291	...in creating a new regulation. And I think if she eliminates... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...the ones indicated in the course of the debate, we will support that.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u292	Let's get to the questions. If any of you want to sign up, you're welcome. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u293	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask about the position of the creditor in the context of the proposed changes in terms of bail-in fees. The most unfavourable to the creditors themselves appears to be the change in the fact that if the debtor's incorrect address is indicated in the enforcement application, the bailiff will be able to charge the creditor with a 10% charge. In this context, there is a risk that the debtor's address may be considered incorrect, inter alia. It's an out-of-date address. If the proposed amendments enter into force, the fact that debtors often change their residence address in order to avoid payment of debts may not be taken into account in order to eliminate situations in which the bailiff executes enforcement actions against persons or entities that are not debtors. The existing difficulties in establishing the debtor's place of residence by the creditor may result in the above. The 10% levy will be a specific penalty also imposed on reliable creditors seeking to enforce their debts. And second question. What is the minister's position on the outcome of the PwC advisory company's report, which carried out this report on behalf of the National Chambers Council, indicating that the mere reduction in the fees will result in a reduction in the revenues of the firm of 30 and that the vast majority of the firm will record losses, which will result in their liquidation? Does the Ministry have such analyses? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u294	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Król, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u295	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Designed changes of laws hit not only bailiffs, but also creditors. There is a serious risk that almost 60% of bail-out firms may be wound up in 2018 and that work may lose as much as 10,000. persons employed in law firms. The revenue of the state budget can also fall by up to PLN 250 million per year. Above all, however, they will lose creditors who will find it harder to recover their funds. Such a state of affairs will lead to the flourishing of debt collection companies, often random ones, which will not always in accordance with the letter of law enforce due money. The project therefore strikes not only the bailiffs, not only creditors, not only the budget, but also the respect of the debtor's rights. Does the Ministry have an analysis of the effects that creditors may have and the potential number of people who may lose their jobs? According to analyses carried out on behalf of the National Chamber Council, for a large majority of law firms, the profession of bailiff may cease to be cost-effective, which will, of course, affect creditors already affected by debtors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u296	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz Poselski Club15. There's no envoy. [[Applause]] I invite Mr Stefan Romecki, also from the Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u297	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! How much does the bailiff make today? We have different data: 16,000. Or 25,000. And how much is that according to the Ministry of Justice's records, and how much do you want to settle the bailiff's fee? And second question. Is there a forecast return of VAT from 2015 on debtors that were collected by bailiffs and is it moral for the Treasury to make money on bailiff executions from debtors? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u298	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u299	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to clarify the questions that have already actually been raised here, because there is no answer to them in the impact assessment. What's going on with the VAT? Does VAT, in total, result in higher charges for commercial firms and how much, and from what? Can we just get a normal calculation, which results from the possibility of deduction of VAT paid, which will be charged with VAT, which will not be charged with VAT? Can the Ministry that runs the case communicate with the Ministry of Finance and make a final interpretation and respect how these new solutions will affect the financial situation from a VAT point of view, how this will work? I would very much like to ask you to present such precise calculations concerning, say, an average firm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u300	Thank you. Mr Wiesław Krajewski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u301	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today, it has fallen from the speaker many times, and especially from the mouth of Deputy Minister Patrick Jakie, that the profession of bailiff is an important element in the structure of the state, in the structure of the justice system. And that, ladies and gentlemen, let's hold on to it, because that's probably what it is. I had a meeting with bailiffs, advisors, applicants from my region, from Małopolska east a few days ago. They made some comments, suggestions and concerns. Namely, the discussion about fees and income of bailiffs can and must be conducted, but it should be started by counting how much it costs to operate an effective judicial enforcement system. Uniform rate of 10% excluding 5%-dollar cash deposits and 3% Depending on the timing of the deposit, it can contribute to a negative financial result of the firm, which will disastrously reduce its revenue. The minimum fee will be reduced to PLN 100. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! My question is this: What are the reasons and arguments that have decided on these percentages? What affected it? Perhaps it is still worthwhile to consider, at the legislative stage, whether the bailiff environment is actually wrong in this regard, and can actually still correct these values. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u302	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u303	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The bill on bail-out costs raises great concern among bailiffs. The National Chambers Council argues that the reduction in fees will adversely affect the efficiency of enforcement activities. I have a question: Has the government - or another institution commissioned by the government - carried out a comprehensive analysis of the impact of the proposed changes on the financial situation of the bailiffs? Does the government have any current knowledge about this? Is the bill based on the current simulation? Is anxiety in the bailiff's environment justified? This answer is necessary in order to proceed with the government project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u304	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u305	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Personally, I have no experience with bailiffs, but if we consider the bailiff to be an officer, then consistently the rates of execution costs should be low and should actually reflect the execution costs incurred, which should be calculated precisely. So: Has an example simulation been made of these costs based on existing law firms and their activities? I am not concerned about the financial condition of the bailiff's offices, as one of the previous Members here was pleased to note, but when new solutions are introduced, they should result from professionalism, not from a hat, so that the reliability of a few bailiffs announced by the media at various moments does not disturb the current activities of other bailiffs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u306	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u307	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I agree with my previous speaker here that, with these laws, it is particularly necessary to be guided by professionalism, not by data from a hat. Unfortunately, I have the impression that, especially in situations where we are dealing with an impact assessment of laws adopted, both in the case of previous laws on bailiffs and in the case of this law on bail-out costs, we do not know exactly what data is the basis of these calculations. Previously, Minister Jak has not answered my question as to whether the bailiffs are taxpayers of the tax on goods and services or not. Now all this is related also to how the calculations are prepared. Is VAT included in the calculations for both the previous law and the present law? Please note that we are talking here about 20% differences , i.e. significantly prejudicing whether or not the bailiff's firm will remain on the market. How can we even proceed with the bail-in bill without knowing this basic principle? The Commercial Costs Act allegedly refers to the exemption from the tax on goods and services, while in the law on bailiffs - the tax on goods and services. What's it really like? What data is the basis for these laws? Because it's truly regrettable. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u308	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u309	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the impression that the Ministry of Justice has recently suffered from legislative diarrhea, because it is constantly imposing further laws on us, in just appalling quantities, just to take over its power practically all actions relating to the justice system, with bailiffs, with the National Judicial Council, etc. I wouldn't mind if these laws were well prepared, well thought out, actually put in place a certain order and order. However, unfortunately, you come with laws that are written on your knee, which are not based on any analysis at all. I don't know if it's on the basis that one of the vice ministers or ministers is gonna think something needs to be changed. You're accusing bailiffs of scavengers of life styles, and you didn't exactly check the cost, the earnings, for a good cause. You think that if you delete the bailiffs, and this is the result of all the analyses that have been carried out, it will be much better immediately that it will respond to the really disturbing information that has appeared in the media, as I said earlier, concerning a few people. I have a favor to ask. You are representatives of the Ministry of Justice. We therefore have the right to require that you actually apply the law wisely so that the provisions you propose are well thought out and well prepared. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u310	Thank you. Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, it is difficult not to share the doubts of the National Chamber Council as to the correctness of the calculations contained in the justification of the project, which concern the consequences of the implementation of this law for the various categories of chamber firms. You base your calculations on the 2012 statistics, which are de facto inadequate for current years. It is difficult to refrain from criticism, especially since already in 2015 and 2016 there were provisions limiting the number of cases acceptable to bailiffs, and the contested law on bailiffs introduces further restrictions on the number of cases accepted. We therefore expect that the Ministry of Justice will fully and comprehensively refer to the calculations presented by PwC following an audit commissioned by the National Chambers Council. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u312	Thank you. Maria Zuba, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u313	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My previous speakers called for the rules to be followed so that the Ministry would act professionally. I would like to refer to existing legislation. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the criteria for the education of bailiffs are imposed in our current legal order and to the fact that bailiffs are primarily persons recruited from among lawyers. I would like to ask what level is there, what is the scale for the current bailiffs, who unfortunately do not meet this criterion of professionality, because in my surroundings I see such bailiffs, their actions, their firms. And the second thing that young bailiffs, lawyers, pay my attention to. They present an analysis of the operating costs of their firms and indicate, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unfortunately, today's laws will lead to the collapse of their law firm. And here's the question: are you aware that such small firms can be liquidated? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u314	Thank you very much, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Marcin Warchoł.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u315	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the first point, I will refer to the loudly called PwC audit here. There's no such thing as PricewaterhouseCoopers audit. The concept of "audit" has its meaning in the common language. The audit must be based on a certain range of data. Here we have 66 random bailiffs who have graciously agreed to give their earnings. On the basis of these 66 selectively treated bailiffs, conclusions have been drawn here that 60% of the firm will be wound up. Most importantly, even from this audit it turned out that this revenue amounts to around 25 thousand. gross when these 66 bailiffs agreed to show their money. So that it is not appropriate to rely on this audit here. That's the first line. I would like to return to the questions, the particular issues raised by Members of Parliament. Mr Święcicki pointed out that a number of law firms could fall. I have already pointed out the arguments against this audit, Mr President. Furthermore, I would like to point out that since the start of work on our bill, which is about January, the number of bailiffs has increased by 220 people. Young bailiffs see hope, see an opportunity in our bill. This is demonstrated by the growing number of law firms of young bailiffs. This is an opportunity for them, this is a great opportunity for them. Assesons today work for 3000 PLN per hand, while bailiffs earn even more than 30,000. I'm counting down these, colloquially speaking, wholesalers. The next question was asked by Mr Jerzy Jachnik. He asked for a 10% maximum rate and the formation of rates on the basis of a certain agreement. Mr President, I see a certain threat in this postulate, which leads to a certain corruption. It's a public tribute, there's nothing to get along with. About our money, about the public tribute? On the other hand, by referring to your example, very colourful and indeed on the spot, thank you very much for this example, I would like to point to the article. 28 a project which indicates that if enforcement proceedings are terminated at the creditor's request or on the basis of Article. 824 § 1 point 4 c.p.c. the creditor is charged a relative fee of 5% the value of the remaining benefit to be enforced. However, if the creditor demonstrates that the reason for the cancellation of the enforcement procedure involves the performance of the debtor after the execution or the conclusion after the execution of the agreement - and here is the area for communication - between the creditor and the debtor concerning the manner or date of the performance, that fee shall be charged to the debtor. If the creditor's request for termination of proceedings was notified before the debtor was served with the notice of initiation, the fee shall be fixed and shall be PLN 100. So that's the answer to your question. Thank you for those. Another question, that's... And there's a fellow Member here. (PL) Mr President, Mr President, 99%. These are executions of cash benefits. If you have asked, I answer - 95% according to our records. And what sanctions are provided for when the bailiffs occupy more wealth, the Member used the phrase: "They catch what will happen? ' This is, of course, a gross violation of the law, it is liability and disciplinary, and administrative responsibility also today in the Code of Civil Procedure: Art. 845 § 3 for movable property and the appropriate provision, I do not remember at the moment, the Code of Civil Procedure, which concerns the remaining executions. So that here the system is absolutely tight as far as these issues are concerned. Mr Mirosław Pampuch asked a question about data. Where's the 3% coming from? and 5% Which ones do we bring in? Mr President, today, 3% already in operation, these 5% ,I'm sorry, today it works when the debtor pays the bailiff if he meets the benefit directly to the creditor. It's today. And where's 3%? ? That's how we figured 3%. Four would be too few against five, and because there was a real difference here, we thought that the 3% rate, this special promotion, was justified. The next question that Mr Paszyk asked was about this PwC report, and here again I stress that it is quite, delicately speaking, an unreliable report that is difficult to call an audit. Mr Paweł Bańkowski asked about the position of the creditor. Namely, there are no risks to the creditor here. I repeat that this law also serves creditors. The Member pointed out the risk arising from the identification of the debtor's incorrect address and the burden on the creditor with a 10% charge. Article 4 is replaced by the following: The 29 projects directly foresee this kind of situation, a highly reprehensible situation. Let's just call it an extortion of the execution title. That's what you gotta call it. Namely, in the event of an obvious non-indebted person's application for enforcement, the bailiff shall issue a 10% levy on the creditor. benefits. In such a case, the bailiff shall not levy or charge a fee from the debtor and the fee collected or collected shall be refunded to the debtor. So that there is absolutely no threat here, and on the contrary, I will say, referring to the next question that will be: this law serves creditors. These are the rates that we standardize, the fees in the form of 10% They serve creditors. It's the creditors who get the money, not the bailiffs. Mr Wojciech Król pointed out that according to the PwC report in 2018, nearly 60% of the firm will lose its base of existence. Of course, such a claim is not absolutely valid. Mr Stefan Romecki asked the question, what about the situation when... I don't remember anymore. Excuse me, sir, remind me. Excuse me, I'm sorry, but I haven't noticed. And to Marcin Święcicki, the answer to the question that appeared, namely whether the bailiff is a VAT payer. Yes, it is. The bailiff is, and Mr Pampuch also seems to have asked this question as the last one, the bailiff is indeed a VAT payer. On the other hand, bailiffs add VAT to their fees, even though both the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Justice and the Supreme Court clearly indicate that they are to deduct. The bailiffs are cheating. They charge their VAT, sir, and they don't count their VAT. As far as VAT issues are concerned, I would be here... Mr Święcicki asked for an analysis, and I would be happy to reply in writing to Mr Święcicki. After consulting the Minister of Finance, we have detailed information on this issue, why our regulation is optimal on this issue, also taking into account the irregularities I am talking about, let us be clear - fraud. They cannot add VAT and this is a clear situation. Unfortunately, practice is different. Now, back to the questions, because they were scrolling around, about the data from the hat, the lack of data, I want to make it clear that the law that was created at the Ministry of Justice is the fruit of the hard work of many judges who study hundreds of files daily on living examples. They see these pathologies. And on the basis of that, they are making concrete changes that aim to eliminate these pathologies. That's first of all. Secondly, in 2015, we have PIT data. I don't think there's any more reliable data. So that here absolutely in terms of OSRs, in colloquially speaking, we are prepared honestly and carefully for this bill. It has been created for many months and is the result of many years of experience of judges themselves, but also work on concrete living examples of pathology that have taken place in various areas of the country. And this isn't some newspaper data, these are specific examples from the files. I seem to have exhausted my list of questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u316	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a request was made to refer the draft law to the Legislative Commission. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of items 8 and 9 of the agenda: 8. First reading of the parliamentary bill amending the Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws (prints No 852 and 852-A). 9. First reading of the civil draft law amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws (Print No 1534). I ask Mr Jarosław Sachaika to provide the reasons for the bill in print 852 and 852-A. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u317	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present to you a draft law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws. The aim of the bill is to introduce pension allowances for those who are eligible for voluntary firefighters' activities. The project provides for the grant of a pension allowance to persons who have been active members of the voluntary fire department for at least 20 years. Let me repeat: the project concerns only active members of the voluntary fire department. In the course of consultations with volunteer firefighters, we have established that active membership of voluntary firefighters means a membership lasting a total of at least 20 years, during which the insured took part in at least half of the average municipal number of fire-fighting and rescue operations. The CSR partners are volunteers and professionals at the same time. They are required to be fit and healthy, as confirmed by appropriate tests. Firefighters have very good tactical and combat training, which involves a great amount of time, with a significant psychological and physical burden. Volunteer firefighters are an organization which plays a particularly important role in rural areas, where the network of professional units of the State Fire Service is underdeveloped. Although voluntary fire workers gather on a voluntary basis, it is worth noting that they are very well-trained, professionally organized and strongly involved in fulfilling their tasks. Volunteer firefighters are a very important element of public service, under which citizens are trained in discipline and deepen their sense of duty and dedication. In accordance with the Fire Protection Act, a member of the voluntary fire department who has participated in rescue or fire training organised by the State Fire Department or the municipality shall receive a cash equivalent for each hour of participation in rescue or training. The amount of the equivalent shall be determined by the municipality. The upper limit is 1/175 of the average monthly salary announced by the president of the CSO, i.e. slightly above 20 PLN. I would like to make it clear to you how much volunteer firefighters actually receive in one hour's time to participate. I have prepared several resolutions of the municipalities' councils, which are entitled to determine the amount of the equivalent. Very often these amounts are in the order of PLN 12.13 and PLN 4.6 for fire training. And so we have in official journals: Council of the Municipality of Paprotnia - 13 zł and 5 zł for each full hour of training, Ćmielów - 10 zł, commune of Rudka - 12 zł. And so you can go on and on. The amount of the proposed rates is so ridiculously low that the equivalent in part of the municipality is only functional formally. Often firefighters consciously refuse to receive it. This is because the municipalities have one pool of money to maintain the readiness of the volunteer fire department, from which the equivalent for firefighters is also paid. The bridesmaids are aware that by taking the equivalent, they reduce the fire budget of the municipalities, so they often renounce their resources to their own unit. The current state of regulation, which appreciates the contribution, involvement and work of voluntary firefighters, is highly unsatisfactory. The service provided by volunteer firefighters involves not only participation in actions, but also the need for regular physical preparation and the need for a large amount of time for CSR activities. In addition, the voluntary fire service involves a series of responsibilities and a full willingness to take action, which requires great discipline and a significant level of availability. It should be stressed that voluntary firefighters are not merely involved in fire rescue. Volunteer firefighters are also active in other fields, such as environmental protection, sport, education and education or culture. Volunteer firefighters carry out local activities to protect the natural environment, forests, nature reserves, national parks, urban gardens and natural resources. Many individuals conduct physical and sports culture classes, organize sports competitions and conduct sports facilities, as well as prepare tourist and recreational events. Many of them also engage in hobby activities, running clubs and circles of interest, including various educational and educational activities. In the field of culture and art, voluntary firefighters are also very active in organizing local cultural events: holidays, festivals or festivals that support tradition and folk culture. The firefighter shall not be entitled to any cash benefits for such activities, carried out outside rescue operations or trainings. The involvement of volunteer firefighters in the ministry is admirable and involves a heavy psychological and physical burden. Therefore, in the opinion of the projectors, the introduction of an allowance to the pension for members of voluntary fire services of PLN 20 per year of active service will only be a symbolic expression of respect and recognition for their dedicated service. The introduction of an allowance to the pension for persons serving at the TSO will result in a mission that they carry out not only as an honorary activity. The pension allowance is intended to in some way compensate them for their long-term dedication and activities in favour of local communities. In conclusion, I would like to stress once again that the role of volunteer firefighters who devote their spare time to others, often putting their lives and health at risk to save victims of various kinds of accidents, disasters or natural disasters, is beyond overestimation. As a result, firefighters should be given due respect and gratitude to their citizens. This gratitude should also be expressed in the form of financial support for a heavy, multi-annual, active service for the security of citizens and the protection of the country. To conclude, I would like to ask the High House to draw attention to the underappreciated CSR firefighters who, for the sake of merit to society as a whole, should, at least to a minimum, be rewarded. Please refer this draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy and the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u318	Thank you very much. I ask the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Janusz Kazimierz Necessary to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u319	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have had a double honor today, namely the opportunity to appear before the High Chamber and represent a huge number of volunteer firefighters, as well as the Legislative Initiative Committee of the Act on amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws. This matter has been, for many years, often discussed by volunteer firefighters and has not yet been successfully dealt with. I therefore present to the Sejm a proposal of over 212 thousand. citizens on the pension allowance expected by volunteer firefighters for years. I think it's odd to say, if you save one man, it's like you've saved the whole world. Firefighters volunteer to save people in need on a daily basis, and it is therefore appropriate to establish a special allowance for firefighters' pensions. When they retire, they deserve support from society as a whole for their faithful and self - sacrificing service to others. As at the end of 2016, there were 16 204 CSR units operating in the country, bringing together almost 700,000. members, including more than 50,000. They're people over 50 years old. 4306 volunteer firefighters are included in the national fire escape system. The equipment and training of the TSO shall enable rescue and fire-fighting, water rescue, medical rescue, flood rescue, technical and road rescue, as well as chemical, ecological and search rescue. More than 220 000 can participate in these activities. CSR firefighters aged 18 to 65. In addition, we attach particular importance to the training of the successors of current rescuers, who belong to youth fire teams, of which we have almost 7,000, and there are almost 82,000 in them. boys and girls. In order for these people, both older and younger, to be able to act effectively with help and rescue, systematic training and self-improvement, shown by rescue volunteers themselves, often at the expense of their own time, is essential. We must not forget that most of these people have a family to support, which in this situation is not meaningless. Especially important, as I have already mentioned, are the individuals involved in the structure of the national rescue and fire-fighting system. Although it has come to the conclusion, and much of the truth is that this system is based on the state budget of the State Fire Service, it is difficult to imagine today the existence of this system without voluntary firefighters kept by local authorities in principle. It is very common that firefighters are the first to arrive at the scene, help and rescue those in need, using modern equipment designed for rescue and rescue operations. In KSRG alone by state on 31 December Ub. There were 140 thousand of them. Lifeguards. Volunteer firefighters, also from outside the KSRG, must have special facilities, as I have already mentioned, specialized education and efficient, modern equipment to arrive as soon as possible to the guard and then to the scene. They also exist in CSR sections of rescuers with over-standard training, equipped with appropriate, highly specialised equipment. And these are the groups we have in the country 157. The data already presented prompts us to reflect on whether those who, at the same time as officers of the State Fire Service, save lives and human property, should not be given some form of redress, not on an ongoing basis, because this is not what the volunteers expect, but when they can feel the effects of the previous action when they move to a well-deserved rest. It is proposed that firefighters of rescue workers should be granted an allowance to the pension for at least 10 years of service of 20 PLN for each documented year during which the insured was directly involved in rescue operations. The Legislative Initiative Committee of the Act proposes that the mayor, the mayor, the president of the city responsible for the seat of the TSO to whom he was insured, at the request of the insured person, issue a certificate of compliance with the requirements of the insured person. The issue of pension allowances for multi-annual members of TSOs is important from a social point of view and the expectations of volunteer firefighters. It would be a way of appreciating their efforts by the state authorities. Years ago, the High Sejm had already dealt with this issue, but then there were wider requirements. At present, the committee I represent is limited only to additives for rescue firefighters who can document the relevant activities and the duration of their participation. The expected cost is presented in the tabular section and the calculation takes into account the current number of CSR members over 65 years of age, assuming that everyone has pension rights. In a letter to the Marshal of the Sejm, on the basis of this assumption, I concluded that the total cost of the anticipated financial consequences of the introduction of the regulation was taken into account for prudential reasons, probably in excess of the actual cost. It has been taken into account that the vast majority of volunteer firefighters are men. The expected increase in the number of pensioners among the current members of CSR directly involved in rescue operations has also been demonstrated. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Committee of the Legislative Initiative's proposal for a law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws was caused, among others. the long-term expectation of this group of socialists to evaluate correctly, but also to appreciate their very positive and necessary activities. It's not like I said, a new venture. There have been a group of Members before, but their initiatives have not been taken into account. Today, this is done by a group of people forming the Legislative Initiative Committee, which has gathered more than 212 thousand. signatures of citizens supporting the project. I kindly inform the High House that this issue will not be dealt with by payment of the equivalent of money for participation in trainings or rescue and rescue operations. These are ad hoc measures, which do not compensate for the great commitment to helping those in need and victims. Currently it seems, and it is urgent to take up and address the subject of granting the pension allowance, as on behalf of the Legislative Initiative Committee, I ask the High House. At the same time, I would like to thank all the volunteer firefighters, their families and supporters of the guards for their support for our initiative. I would like to thank the first President of the Supreme Court, the Social Insurance Institution, the Social Insurance Council of Farmers, the Rural Union of the Republic of Poland, the Office of Sejm Analysis, the First Deputy Prosecutor General and the National Trade Union Agreement for leaning over our project and expressing its opinion. I would like to express my thanks to the Marshal of the Sejm for bringing the citizens' bill to the session, and I ask the High House to refer him to the relevant committees. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I address you with the words of our Pope John Paul II, who said to the firefighters in Drohiczyn, remember, but not the ghost. Ladies and gentlemen, do not put out the spirit of the knights of St. Floriana and support the initiative 212 000. citizens. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u320	Thank you very much to the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these two items on the agenda it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Barbara Bartus will speak first on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u321	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It has been my honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws, print Nos 852 and 852-A, and the citizens' bill amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws, print No 1534. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Volunteer firefighters deserve the utmost recognition. Without volunteer firefighters, it's hard to imagine the operation of a rescue system. Volunteers not only go to fires, rescue natural disasters, but also help victims of road accidents. Therefore, firefighters have enjoyed the greatest social trust for many years. The Polish government supports the activities of voluntary firefighters. We have introduced new rules to subsidise individuals in order to spend more rationally the funds, and the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło increases the funds for TSOs, especially for individual volunteer firefighters and rescue equipment. This year these measures have been increased by several percent compared to last year. The draft laws discussed in this section aim to introduce pension allowances for those who are entitled to voluntary firefighters' activities. The rules for the payment of these allowances are set out here by the applicants. However, when discussing the projects submitted, it is necessary to note that since 1999 the social security system has been based on the principle of the equivalence of the contributions paid and the benefit due. The benefits paid under the general scheme are individual in nature and are determined on the basis of the contribution paid in the form of contributions. By reforming the pension system in 1998, the authority of that time emphasized that as much as you put together, you will receive in the future. This was indicated as the highest value and so in Poland the social security system and the pension system were constructed. It should be noted that the old-fashioned so-called general pension scheme has been abolished. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 10000000. The abolition of the right to these allowances was due to the restoration of the pension system of its insurance character, which was finally determined by the reform of the social security system introduced in 1999. In the new pension scheme, defined by the Social Insurance Fund Pension Act, the source of funding for pension benefits is the fund created by contributions from employees and employers. Most of the non-insurance and social components have been removed from the scheme in order to link the amount of the future benefit to the sum of the contributions paid from the insured's income during the entire period of his professional activity. Currently, only two types of allowances are paid under the Social Insurance Fund Act: the care allowance and the supplement for complete orphans. Both of these allowances are insurance benefits related to insurance risks in the form of incapacity for work and self-existence and loss of the host. The payment of these allowances shall take place in the event of the specified risks being met and shall entail the obligation to pay the insurance premium. Service in voluntary fire department units does not fall within the categories of insurance risks provided for by the social security system, which include, in particular, the loss of working income due to old age or incapacity to work due to health, while the Fire Protection Act provides for voluntary fire workers, inter alia. one-off compensation in the event of permanent or long-term injury or pension for total or partial incapacity for work. I would like to point out that pensions from pension provision are also paid in Poland, i.e. not from the Social Insurance Fund, but these are completely different legal solutions, other regulations. This is not the case for those laws whose amendment is proposed. On behalf of my Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to ask both of these projects to go further. [[♪ The bell ♪]] procedures, but in the joint committees: the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the committee that is appropriate for firefighters, the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u322	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u323	I'm making the right proposals for your marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u324	Thank you very much. The Civic Platform will now take the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Club with Mrs Ewa Drozd.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u325	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club regarding two draft laws amending the Pension and Pensions Act from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws contained in prints No 852, 852-A and 1534. As we have already heard during the speeches of my previous speakers, the changes in question concern a major problem related to the payment of the pension allowance of PLN 20 per month for each documented year of active membership in volunteer firefighters for volunteers. In this respect, both projects are compatible. However, they differ in the period necessary to receive such an allowance. The Kukiz project15 talks about a 20-year period of active membership, while the citizens' project talks about a 10-year period. The project of the Kukiz club15 additionally determines the receipt of this supplement from participation in rescue and fire-fighting operations. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club has no doubt that voluntary firefighters are a very important part of public service, and the involvement of members of the CSR is admirable, often associated with a significant psychological and physical burden and, as the applicant has already said, also with availability, all in order to assist and support in difficult situations often linked to life, health, environmental risks and natural disasters. TSOs also play an important role in the development of culture in rural areas. Their activities promote physical culture and sport and carry out educational activities and, what is important, transfer beautiful values from generation to generation. We appreciate the important role and responsibility of voluntary firefighters. Therefore, the activities of the TSOs were supported in the years of our governments. This is demonstrated by the renewed firehouses, the equipped units, and most importantly, I would like to remind you that we have amended the Fire Protection Act of 25 July 2008 allowing voluntary firefighters who participate in rescue or fire training organized by the State Fire Department or the municipality to receive a cash equivalent for each hour of participation in rescue or training, whether the firefighter is an employed person, an economic activity, a farmer or an unemployed person. We therefore consider it appropriate to continue to support this activity, although the proposed changes raise a lot of doubts. It is particularly incomprehensible to determine active membership in at least half of the average municipal number of fire-fighting and rescue actions included in the Kukiz project15. The number of events in individual units varies dramatically and has many conditions, such as the location in flood areas. In view of the above, the calculated activity to meet the requirements of the Act will be detrimental to the firefighters of volunteers from these areas. Another question concerning two projects is whether they should also take into account other social organisations operating within emergency organisations, such as water, mountain, voluntary emergency services, which are organised on a voluntary basis in order to carry out public tasks. There are still many other questions and doubts that need to be answered in order to find good and fair solutions, and we therefore believe that the committee is a perfect place where, during the discussion and after listening to the positions of the stakeholders, we can resolve any doubts and develop solutions that satisfy all parties. High Izbo! Given the above arguments, although the solutions contained in the citizens' project are closer to us, the parliamentary club is in favour of directing both projects to further work in the Commissions: Social Policy, Family Policy and Public Finance. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u326	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u327	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I am pleased to present my position on two draft laws on the amendment of the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws - a parliamentary one, submitted by the Kukiz Club15, and a civil one, introduced by the Legislative Initiative Committee. In recent months, we have seen an interesting pattern. Namely, when it turned out that Kukiz15 had submitted a project, suddenly political parties began to talk a lot about the need to support volunteer firefighters. Only when it was realized that Kukiz15 wanted to make up for the long-term service and activities of local communities to firemen, parties, as has happened many times in the past, then before the elections, now after our initiative, remembered the existence of CSR. In my view, the submission of further, almost identical projects is just a cheap party play, which does not respect the importance of the High House. A few weeks after the members of the Kukiz club submitted a draft bill, almost the same draft was submitted by Members of the Polish People's Party. Unfortunately, their enthusiasm went out as quickly as it appeared, and Members lacked the energy to refer to the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office, so the project had not received a further run since November and we are proceeding today two rather than three projects. But what I want to say is that it doesn't really matter, it doesn't matter that we were the first, because our goal is the welfare of the citizens of the Republic, and in this particular case the welfare of the volunteer firefighters and their protected citizens. The Kukiz15 club project is well received not only by firefighters, but also by various institutions or bodies. This is evident, among other things, in this regard. Opinions of the Rural Union of the Republic of Poland or the Management Board of the Opole Voivodship. The position of the Council of Ministers in relation to this project also makes it clear that the special self-sacrifice of persons associated with the TSO should be recognised and appreciated by the public authority. The project of the Kukiz club15 provides for the grant of a pension allowance to volunteers who have been active for at least 20 years. This allowance is 20 PLN for each full year of their active service. In my view, this will be a symbolic expression of respect and appreciation for their many years of dedicated work. The citizens' project proposes a 10-year period of activity as well as a 20-gold supplement for each year worked. Once again, I would like to make it clear that being a volunteer firefighter is not a job, it's a service for another man. Being a firefighter obliges you to devote yourself to society, to the individual and to work on your own person. The firefighter with the TSO shall operate 24 hours a day. He's ready to go to the emergency room any minute. I hope that these two projects will go into further work in the committees. It's time we worked out the best solutions for the firefighters together. That's why we're here. It's an important bill that should be examined over divisions. At the end of my speech, I would like to recall the famous fireman's motto: God for glory, for people's benefit. We, politicians, too, should be guided by the fact that our decisions are good for citizens and beneficial for them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u328	Thank you. Now he's gonna take the floor... I understand there's not much time left. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, just a few seconds. No. Mrs Monika Rosa, Modern Club. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u329	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The involvement and sacrifice of those associated with TSOs should be appreciated by the public authority, including the financial dimension, and the way in which this is to be achieved requires an in-depth analysis. We are in favour of directing these projects to read in committee, but I would like to put forward a few questions that emerged after reading both projects. First of all, the pension system in Poland is so designed that it consists of a defined contribution, and the pension depends directly on the amount of contributions paid. So there's no room for that kind of accessory. Since the introduction of the pension reform, the only form of supplement is the care supplement for people unable to live independently and after over 75 years of age, and in the family pension system, the supplement for complete orphans. All these contributions, these benefits are paid by social security contributions. The social security system carries out its essential functions, protecting against loss of funds due to old age, illness, incapacity for work, and lacks room to carry out tasks consisting in rewarding or honoring anyone, also for sacrificing your time and health for the public good. Therefore, the Fire Protection Act is perhaps the appropriate place to compensate for participation in rescue operations. In the case of these draft laws, the designer goes beyond the applicable pension system, which is also underlined by the Supreme Court's opinion. If we were to contribute to the amount that volunteers are currently receiving, it would increase the operating costs of the TSOs within the municipalities, but would also not produce the expected results. In order to obtain such pension benefits as are indicated in the proposed laws, contributions of around 87 000 should be collected. zł, and from the possible contribution of the equivalents for participating in the shares of the TSO, this amount would rather never accumulate. The second doubt that remains is that there is some inequality, i.e. The voluntary fire department obtains these allowances, while the question remains, e.g. about the Mountain Voluntary Emergency Service or the Tatra Voluntary Emergency Service. In principle, these organisations also act as voluntary associations. That's a few doubts. I think the Sejm committees will be a good place to talk about them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u330	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak will now speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u331	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Friends and Friends of the Friends! I would appeal to not bid here, who was first and who was last, because this is the beginning of the wrong path. Such auctions took place here and all the previous projects were lost because they started bidding. Firefighters, friends don't bid when they go to action, and they don't ask who's out of what option, who's out of what party, but they save everyone equally. [[Applause]] Today is the time to give little satisfaction at the moment of reflection. The chairman's friend, the applicant, said: 16,000. units, almost 700,000. Friends of firefighters, professionals, professionals. They are the ones who care about the security of the state, because today it is enough to watch: there is no day for us not to listen to information on TV or on the radio that firefighters participate. The number of guards is replaced, but compare how many professional guards there are, and how many volunteers are involved. Sometimes I wonder, five times, ten times more. It's not about discrimination against professional guards, but so vigilant and so professional are volunteers that they can handle any threat, any action. This cannot be questioned or questioned. The money we are talking about today in these projects is symbolic, because it is just 30, 40 or 50 million PLN per year. Talking about equivalence, that the system is equivalent, etc. I'd agree if he were self-sufficient, but we're paying 50 billion, 60 billion a year for insurance, and let's not bid for a thousand times. more than we're talking about today with these additions. So I think we should be serious here. Talking about trusting that we have trust in firefighters. On the one hand, we say that we have confidence in the firefighters, and on the other hand we take the money they have, and we claim that we cannot trust that the minister will have better confidence in the firefighters' friends. We're taking money for training, we're taking money for uniforms, so we also need to verify these views here. Today, it would be difficult to imagine what a rural environment would be like without voluntary firefighters in terms of social life, but it would be difficult to imagine what the safety of the country would be like, because this is important, because first of all it is the safety of the country. This is preparation, professionalism, many responsible trainings. When it comes to compounding - someone here talked about it - it is supposed to be money from the state budget and not to bear these costs of the municipality. It is simply intended to be additional money intended as a grant, as an equivalent, as an increase of 20 PLN per year, i.e. a minimum of 200 PLN, pensions, benefits collected. So, on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I would like to say that we are sorry that, when it comes to our project, which we have reported, Mr. Marshal was doing so much filming, so keyed not to allow him to proceed, but I think the time will come, and I would ask that Mr. Marshal finally pity himself, because this is also a good project. Let's work together, together, beyond divisions. And I wouldn't want there to be such an ambiguous position: we're in favour, but we're against, because we need to move fast. I'm gonna work on it. If we want these allowances to come into force next year, we have to finish the project for the holidays. This is a clear, clear, transparent project. There's no complicated stuff in there. It is only necessary to specify in the regulation what documents are needed, and everyone can be satisfied. Will the expectations of all come true? Certainly not, but in the formula proposed in the citizens' project it is precisely specified who is entitled to it, like this readiness, because it is not just for participating in the actions. That's also for being ready, because you have to train yourself. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You have to be home, you have to wait for the siren to blow. And it's important to take into account the period of readiness, because the number of actions may vary.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u332	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u333	Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am in favour of further proceding both projects. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u334	Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan will now speak on behalf of the Free and Solidarni wheels.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u335	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the citizens' and Members' proposals for amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws. Both the civil and the parliamentary project provides for the granting of an allowance to members of the voluntary fire department for retirement. In the case of the parliamentary project, additional funds of PLN 20 for each documented year of service would be paid to members of the voluntary fire department who have been active in service for 20 years. They would be volunteers who participated in at least half of their unit's shares. In turn, the citizens' project assumes that this supplement, at the same height as in the draft of the members of the Kukiz club15, would receive volunteers from the voluntary fire department who have participated directly in rescue operations for at least 10 years. There is no doubt that the voluntary fire department is an important element not only in our fire safety but also in our social and cultural life. Involving its members in the ministry and helping us requires proper recognition. However, I have some doubts about issues which, in my opinion, may affect the negative social perception of the proposed solutions and contribute to the emergence of conflicts. My skepticism arouses, among other things. the factor proposed in the parliamentary draft to ensure that the member concerned receives the allowance to the pension, i.e. the need for him to participate in at least half of his unit's shares. We know very well that depending on the municipality there are large discrepancies in the number of trips of the team to the event. This means that e.g. members of an individual from one municipality would be entitled to such an allowance if they had already participated in 10 shares, while members of a team from another municipality would have had to take these trips 50. Already now, by briefly reviewing the Internet forums on which the main stakeholders in the implementation of these regulations are concerned, it can be noted that this issue is becoming a subject of dispute and intense discussion. Doubts also arise if we think about the social character of the service in the voluntary fire department. Despite the money equivalent received due to participation in shares or training organised by the PSP or the municipality, membership of the TSO was primarily linked to the willingness to provide assistance to others. The introduction of the proposed solutions could derail this idea, leading to a situation in which voluntary activity will only be brought into a desire to obtain financial benefits. To sum up, both projects raise a number of considerations that would be worth discussing more. Apart from the reservations regarding the systemic location of the proposed regulations, it would be appropriate to consider what the impact on the state budget would actually have on the adoption of one of the solutions, taking into account also the fact that its introduction could result in similar claims from other, similar to TSOs, social organisations. The Free and Solidarnia Circle, bearing in mind the importance of supporting the activities of the State Fire Service, considers that both projects should be directed to further work in the committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u336	Thank you very much. Mr Richard Galla will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u337	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The bridesmaids and the bridesmaids! In prints No 852 and 852-A - the parliamentary project - and No 1534 - the citizens' project - the draft laws amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws provide for the introduction of pension allowances for persons who, according to the parliamentary project, at least 10 years old and, according to the civil project, 20 years old, were active members of voluntary firefighters. This allowance would amount to PLN 20 per month for each documented year of active activity, i.e. for those members who actually participate or are in combat readiness with appropriate training for action. I think that these values would certainly be documented by representatives of local authorities, because these are local authorities, which keep very precise records of trips and participation of firefighters in these activities. High Izbo! Volunteer firefighters, operating mainly in rural and small towns, constitute an important link in the rescue and fire-fighting activities. Especially those units that operate within the national emergency and fire system, providing huge support for the National Fire Service units. We remember how the number of those units that are in the national system has increased over the last few years and how important the role of these units in carrying out activities is, but I think that also in economic terms, because less involvement of the National Fire Service units makes savings. Therefore, often these units, which are in the national system, and not only, are highly specialised, achieving high qualifications in medical, water, chemical or road rescue. Very often we see a volunteer fire brigade next to the units of the State Fire Department. But that's not all. We know exactly how important these individuals play in the lives of their local authorities, whether in the educational area or in the cultural area, or even in supporting local government activity. Often the mayors say: the firefighters are our adjutant army, which means they serve whenever the need arises, and do not look at whether they have time or not, they sometimes devote their time to their family. On the other hand, the issue of pension allowances for volunteer firefighters has been raised in Parliament since many terms, but always ineffective. And I don't think we should be bidding, who's first, who's last, or rather the question is whether we're able to work to ensure that these projects remain in the freezer until the end of the term of office to make it to the third reading, go through the Senate and, most importantly, that President Duda sign the bill. Let's make sure of that. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to remind you that in 2007 - I look towards Mrs Krystyna here - there was a project prepared by Members within the parliamentary fire team and if it had not been for Mr Kaczyński as Prime Minister... [[He stopped.]] ...he made a motion to shorten his term of office, this project might be a bill at the moment, and he went to the trash. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[But he was in his next term, too.]] That's right, but it's not very effective either. Therefore, while respecting the legislative initiative in particular here - it was the volunteer firefighters who prepared the print project No 1534, that they collected more than 212 thousand. signatures - I would like to appeal and ask that these projects together, together, be directed to work in committee and that they achieve their effect as soon as possible by means of a third reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u338	Thank you very much. 13 ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. [[Me too.]] Member of the House? Ah, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak joined the question. Good. So 14 ladies and gentlemen of the House. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the question time - 1 minute. She is the first to ask the question of Małgorzata Płępek. You're welcome. [[Mr. Marshal, objection. Two minutes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u339	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A paragraph is added to the current law which states that the condition for 20 years of the insured person's membership is fulfilled if the person has participated in the activities of entities performing equivalent functions as TSOs in another Member State of the European Union. I wanted to ask the designers of these solutions how such membership and participation in actions will be confirmed when it comes to participation in fire-fighting actions and their number in other European Union countries. As far as Poland is concerned, such a certificate may be issued by the governor. And another question: What authority will confirm that another foreign entity performs functions identical to the functions of the Polish volunteer fire department unit? Will this be clarified in the Regulation, or is it necessary to regulate legislation? It is good that the drafts of these laws [[♪ The bell ♪]] they go to the Parliamentary Committee, but 20 zlotys supplement to the pension...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u340	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u341	...for heavy, sacrificing service...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u342	Now the question is asked by Mr Jarosław Sachajko...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u343	...it's definitely not enough.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u344	...Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u345	Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u346	Thank you very much. The Member resigns. Mr Piotr Polak, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u347	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bridesmaids and the bridesmaids! Representatives of the Legislative Initiative Committee! Ladies and gentlemen! As a member of the Parliamentary Committee on Home Affairs, I listened attentively to this discussion and I am pleased that all clubs declare their willingness to continue working on these drafts of two laws. I will certainly take an active part in further work on these projects on this committee. However, I would like to ask the members of the General Board of the Association of Volunteer Fire Guards... [[This is an initiative committee.]] But at the same time there are representatives of the board of directors. ...how it happened, and why, in previous terms, both in the VI and in the 7th term of office, similar drafts of laws were presented by Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, but during the debate here in this plenary room, you never appeared in the fire uniforms, and you never supported our actions in order to make such support for the voluntary friends. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u348	Thank you very much, sir. Now the question is asked by Mr Richard Galla, a non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u349	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a pity that there are no representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration or of the Chief of State Fire Department at first reading today, because I do not hide that I would like to ask them what the effect of introducing voluntary fire services into the national system is and what the financial effect is for this reason. Isn't it a coincidence that the amount of money saved several times exceeds the needs that exist on the applicant side, who want to add an allowance to the voluntary firefighter's pension? And the second question, addressed to the Members submitting the proposal and to the representatives of the Legislative Initiative Committee: Are there any calculations of the impact that we will have on this? I'm asking because this is where your law and justice rep talked about, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's the big money that's gonna put the Social Security Fund in jeopardy...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u350	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u351	...and we really know that these grants are pretty big. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u352	The question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u353	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The bridesmaids and the bridesmaids! But above all, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Senator, Head of the Citizens' Initiative! It's not like we're in this room either talking or disagreeing. Today it is worth asking the government a question, because it is up to the government - and then the PiS Members will raise their hand - whether there is a will in you to settle this matter. The year 2007, at the end of the term of office, ladies and gentlemen, is suspended. In 2005, a similar initiative was halted. 2010 - we gave, the government gave as support to the volunteers the resources for participating in the actions, because voluntary guards need to be supported. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[But pensions...]] 130,000. People...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u354	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u355	...the county, 100 bridesmaids of the state guard...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u356	The question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u357	...and then how are we supposed to secure it?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u358	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u359	Appeal - I appeal to the government...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u360	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u361	...to tell you today if there's a will that the president... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u362	Madame, you have exceeded your time, thank you very much. The question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u363	So the Prime Minister is photographing with firemen and the government is rejecting them. I repeat, does the government have the will...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u364	Madam, you've already finished your... Excuse me, Mrs Ewa Drozd. Excuse me, ma'am.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u365	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two short questions, but relevant, to the representative of the applicants from Kukiz.15, and they concern the issue of documenting participation in rescue and fire operations. Do you know what period of archiving of documents confirming participation in shares is currently in force? And two: Who is responsible for archiving these documents and where are they stored? And maybe three: What if there are no such documents in the commune, and there is a volunteer firefighter who served as a volunteer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u366	Thank you very much, Member. I'm sorry again. The question is asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u367	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The revised draft laws aim to introduce pension allowances for multi-annual TSOs' volunteers. TSOs play a very important role in the rescue system and there is no need to convince anyone of this. I have two specific questions. Firstly, what financial implications for the state budget will these allowances have? Secondly, what is the government's position on this matter? I would like to remind you here that with a light hand, the government introduced monthly lump sums - much higher amounts - for members of the territorial defence groups. I therefore call on the Prime Minister and the Government to be equally generous to volunteer firefighters. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u368	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u369	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Volunteers, especially those who have paid with their own health and sometimes with their lives, for their active participation in rescue operations, pay tribute. It is worth honoring them for that. However, the pension system has its logic: it is a defined premium system and its absence means no benefit. The funds for the payment of pensions shall be based on contributions. Supplements cannot be financed by contributions from other people. I would like to ask the Minister if he sees a different way of achieving the purpose of these draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u370	Thank you very much. And now you are asking Edward Sulphur, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u371	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! If we are talking about pension pay, pension allowances for firefighters, this is indeed a subject that has been on the agenda for several years and has never had a final solution. We are the largest social organization, performing half of all rescue operations in Poland. This is indeed a phenomenon on a European scale: 370 000. active rescuers actually sacrifice their lives, their health, their energy, their skills to volunteerly save people's lives. They're on every call from the national rescue system. Here's the question. The situation of firefighters varies. How can you really document your participation in these actions? Because I think the solution, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which the Kukiz colleagues propose is impossible to introduce when we are talking about the average.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u372	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u373	How does the Ministry see this situation? Eventually...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u374	The question is asked by Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u375	...this was supposed to be the solution.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u376	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u377	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As we know, volunteer firefighters put out fires, help during cataclysms, participate in commemorative celebrations - they are wherever they need to be, and they do it with great commitment and heart. You have to appreciate it. In April, April 20th, I reminded you about the freezer and keeping the project of the Kukiz club there15. Today I am glad that this subject is back. Firefighters don't pay contributions, they don't have funds, as I've heard here. Hence my question. Will the government bend and find funds in the budget for our hero volunteers - because I consider them heroes who put their lives at risk for the benefit of Poles and our homeland - to grant a pension allowance for volunteer firefighters? That's what they deserve. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u378	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u379	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Firstly, thanks to all those who signed up for the civic project, to all those who collected these signatures. The result is really impressive: over 200,000. signatures. Thanks also to the applicants for the parliamentary project. We as the Party support all projects aimed at strengthening the role of voluntary firefighters in Poland, providing voluntary guards with decent working conditions and decent retirement. It's not worth bidding on today, it's not the moment, it's the time. Let us focus on the fact that one of these projects - or maybe a project developed jointly after the presentation of the project of the Polish People's Party - will find its permanent place in Polish legislation. This will benefit the volunteer firefighters most. If we want to bid, no one has really dreamed about the PiS, especially Kukiz,15 when the Polish People's Party created projects. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Decent volunteer firefighters. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[What was the result?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u380	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u381	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The modern one has decided to actually vote in favour of transferring both of these projects to committee work. I think there's a good place to think about whether to work on one or another project, or whether to really look for a solution to get these records connected somehow. It would be good to have a point that is important explained during this work. Namely, these projects differ greatly in terms of the length of the service period, in terms of when this benefit would be due. There are huge differences in costs. In one project we see that the costs of introducing these provisions were estimated at PLN 100 million and in the other - at PLN 1.2 billion. This is a huge difference, and it would be good for this matter to be clarified during committee work. The question to those who addressed these draft laws: Why such a difference in these calculations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u382	Thank you. The question is asked by Marek Matuszewski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u383	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Representatives of the Citizens' Initiative! Volunteers need to be respected, volunteer friends. I can honestly say that when I go through various celebrations with my fellow volunteers, they say: Under the rule of law and justice, the economy is improving. [[Applause]] Therefore, I would like to ask the question: Do you know that since PiS rules, every year there is an increase in expenditure on fire department, including on TSOs? [[$3 million.]] That's all you can find on the Ministry's pages. Law and Justice have always been very respectful to volunteer mates. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We know that such projects of the PiS...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u384	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u385	...to fold, too. It's weird that the Platform and PSL coalition rejected them back then. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u386	The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u387	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Well, I was going to ask a question, but Mr Matuszewski provoked me to answer it. [[Bravo!]] Mr President, it is not an art to save millions in the budget for voluntary firefighters. The trick is to know how to hand them over to these guards on purpose. Your maniacal centralization of everything you can cause, you know, the guards will be fine, because it's faked today by giving away money through friends with your party emissaries CSR doesn't do anything. In addition, you have a second manic manner regarding the separation of fellow volunteers, whom you are still able to commend, from the union. Mr President, this differentiation was the last time in the days of the conquerors and in the deep Stalinist times. [[Applause]] So that you come to your senses, gentlemen, and in fact, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Help and support volunteer firefighters. Thank you. [[You haven't given anything yet.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u388	The question is asked by Robert Telus, a club of the Polish People's Party. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] You weren't mentioned by name. [[I can't do that as a PSL, Marshal.]] Mr Robert Telus, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u389	Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Parliamentarians! Representatives of the Civic Committee! I think that screaming here is really out of place. I think we're the ones showing, among others. Right and Justice Club, if there are initiatives like this, we don't throw them in the trash like the previous coalition did. All the civic projects, even those that were supposed to support the fire department, were thrown in the trash, among others. the project that I was conducting during that term of office on pension allowances. I don't think the problem is about who's gonna do it or how. The problem is really technical: how to prove that these firefighters served in volunteer firefighters. That's the problem. I think if we'd rejected the party emotions you're trying to show us here, we'd all be really thinking about it. How do we prove that the firefighters served? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The fact that you have to support the firefighters, we all know.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u390	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u391	The Law and Justice Government in the Modernization Act added PLN 500 million to voluntary firefighters. [[For how long? For 10 years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u392	Thank you very much, sir. The question you are asking is...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u393	And we don't make politics out of it like it does, among other things. PSL. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u394	... Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u395	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think you can do all the good things if you want to. An example is the law, when we did the impossible combination of ZUS and KRUS insurance in the case of guards in 2014. Did we make a bill like that? We did. Everyone's happy, and before that, it was impossible. I don't think there's been a situation like this at the moment. It's the only chance. The government supports it. We don't know the government's position yet, but I think the government's position will be positive. The situation is zero-one. [[It's negative.]] We can talk, we can talk, we can want, we can put together good or even better projects, but if the PiS backs it up, it'll go away. This project has a chance to go through. If the PiS doesn't support it, there's not gonna be a bill. So there's no coalition here anymore, there's no need to look, there's no need for lobbying. If they support it, it'll go away. Now it's up to them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's a good, clear, clear design. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u396	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Mr Marcin Zielenecki will speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u397	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 31 January 2017, the Council of Ministers adopted an official position on a parliamentary bill amending the Social Insurance Fund pension law. As regards the position for the civic project, we are actually at the stage of the draft position of the Council of Ministers before the Council of Ministers Permanent Committee meeting, but already during inter-ministerial consultations. You can say that these positions are very similar because they are very similar to projects. They differ in details concerning, in particular, the length of the service's active period, which entitles such an allowance in accordance with the draft law. As regards the reference to the intentions of the designers, I am talking here about both draft laws, the Council of Ministers is expressing a positive opinion in this regard. There is no doubt that the special sacrifice of those associated with voluntary firefighters should be noticed by the public authority, including the financial dimension. On the other hand, with regard to the way in which we agree with the designers, it requires an in-depth analysis. It can be said that with regard to the powers of the members of the voluntary fire department, these issues have so far been regulated by the Fire Protection Act. These are, in particular, rights in respect of the equivalent of participation in rescue or fire training, namely the right to one-off compensation in the event of permanent or long-term injury, i.e. entitlement to a pension for total or partial incapacity for work, as well as compensation for damage to property, where a member of the voluntary fire department in connection with participation in rescue operations, exercises have suffered injury or injury to property, i.e. the right to monetary compensation for each day of incapacity for work of 1/30 minimum wage, the right to special clothing and personal equipment, the right to periodic free medical examinations. As regards the extension of this catalogue as proposed by the projectors, the Council of Ministers expressed a negative opinion in this regard. This is a negative opinion with regard to the substantive solutions proposed in both projects, not with regard to intentions, which I stress. The motives for the position of the Council of Ministers appeared in the discussion on both draft laws. These recitals mainly referred to the assumptions concerning our pension system, because this element regarding appreciation, appreciation of the sacrificial service of voluntary firefighters, the projectors propose to implement precisely through changes in the pension system. This was also the issue of Mrs Tomaszewska's question as to whether we can imagine another way of achieving those intentions which we agree on. The principle of contribution, one can say, since 1 January 1999 is one of the main principles on which our pension system is based. In short, the right to benefit, but also the dimension of this benefit, is inextricably linked to the contribution, to the contribution obligation, and those proposals which are contained in both draft laws do not take into account this element. Service in voluntary fire department units does not fall within the categories of insurance risks provided for by the social security system, which does not mean, of course, that these possible damage in the form of e.g. Incapacity for work cannot be compensated by the social security system. The assumption of the social security system is that the scheme compensates by providing income lost as a result of a specific random event such as old age or incapacity to work. In the course of the discussion, there were also those arguments which are contained in the official position of the Council of Ministers, which relate to the need, in general, to respect the constitutional principle of equal treatment or equal treatment before the law. Namely, we note in our position that the designers did not include in the project people who are in the so-called. Relevance situation, i.e. those who are also rescuers, volunteers of the Water Volunteer Emergency Service, Mountain Volunteer Emergency Service or e.g. Tatra Volunteer Emergency. Our proposal contains even more detailed comments, already of a legislative nature, which I would not like to present to you at this stage in detail. Despite this negative substantive position of the Council of Ministers, I would like to say that the Council of Ministers supports the proposal to direct both projects to work in committee. During this work, I will present the position of the Council of Ministers in more detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u398	Thank you very much. Now the representative... [[Corrigendum.]] Correct, please. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u399	I don't know, either I was misunderstood, or I misunderstood the Minister, because the Minister here has spoken several times about the government's position and I don't know if it's positive or negative. The document says it's negative, and the Minister said that he was in the middle of an inter-ministerial arrangement, that it wouldn't be known until the committee, so we would like you, Minister, to make it clear. I'm not saying it maliciously. It's just that we need to know what we're leaving this room with. [[Applause]] Which the bridesmaids go out with because it's important. If the position is positive, positive, it is a bill and we move forward, and if not, then there is nothing to play with and direct to the freezer, because it is 2 years and then we will say that the term of office is over. Minister, there must be a clear decision here. [[Applause]] [[It's manly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u400	Thank you. Now the representative will take the floor... The Minister's still here. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u401	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, I'm going to repeat what I said because there may have been a misunderstanding of the position I presented. In short, speaking of the substance of the negative opinion on this project, I pointed out that the Social Insurance Fund pension law - because of those assumptions I mentioned, which were introduced into the pension system under the pension reform, which entered into force on 1 January 1999, in particular based on the principles of determining the pension benefit on the so-called formula. defined contribution - our task is not the right place to appreciate, honor the self-sacrifice, the effort of volunteer firefighters. These powers which I have calculated, and which are included in the Fire Protection Act, indicate that the right place for these intentions that we agree on, the truth about which we agree and with the authors of the civil project, and the initiators of the parliamentary project, is the Fire Protection Act. Hence our support for the initiative that has already been expressed here several times today to pass on this project to committee work. I think that such joint committees: the Committee on Social and Family Policy and the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs are the best place to develop such appropriate legal solutions in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u402	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Sachajko will now take the floor from the applicant's representative.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u403	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am very pleased that everyone wants to work on this project and I hope that this will not happen, that what Mr Kasprzak said will not be fulfilled, that it will be examined for two years and that this work will never end. Therefore, as Kukiz,15 we submitted this project at the beginning of our term of office, so that it would not be as usual that we make it at the end, we promise you what you want, and then nothing comes out of it. I will try to refer one by one to what was mentioned earlier. Mr Kasprzak spoke in his speech not to bid. Mr Kosiniak-Kamish also joined. I also appeal to you: do not bid. What was your behavior? We submit a project, the state in panic after a month makes identical, copying even justification. Hence our outrage, how we can do this. Thanks again to the social side - if the social side had not submitted its project, I suspect that both projects would have fallen out immediately, they would have been rejected at first reading. Therefore, it is not necessary to bid, just to work and if something does not like, to make adjustments. Further looking at what Mr Kasprzak and Mr Kosiniak-Kamish said, I wanted to say: you say the marshal. I don't want to put myself in the marshal's position, but all you have to do is look at the seymoral pages and it's clearly written there. The State simply did not respond to what the Sejm Analysis Office said, which was written by the Sejm Analysis Bureau, not by the Marshal. That's why it's reprehensible, because from what I've heard, what the firemen said, you've been driving and boasting everywhere that you've submitted a project. So what if the BAS didn't respond? Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan spoke about the factors determining the need to participate in at least half of the shares. Here, Members of the Civic Platform are asking how it is archived and what if it is not archived, it will not be possible to prove it. For starters, as a social movement, but also as a substantive opposition, we do not want to say: let us give, let us promise everyone everything. Most of the party that is here was already in the Seym and had the opportunity to give a lot of firefighters, but she didn't. We are talking about the fact that we want to honor this gratification of firefighters who actively participate in the action. In order to prevent what was in some projects, as it was said, just sign up, have permission, and already take money, because that's how we could have millions of pseudo-slayers from tomorrow. We are interested in those who act actively. What if we don't have that file? In my opinion, if there is no documentation, we should assume to the benefit of the firefighters that they were involved in these actions. We are certainly the last 5, 6 years, because these documents are, and we are writing a bill not only for today, because it is actually difficult to document what was 20 years ago, we are writing a bill forward, so we believe that it is necessary to honor those who actively engage in the activities of voluntary firefighters and not just sign up. There were also questions about the cost, why we took it this way, why there was such a difference in these costs. We have clearly written about this in the explanatory memorandum, but I will read a passage of this justification: According to a report published in the series "Citizen's Activity Research" prepared by Millward Brown on behalf of the Klon/Jawor Association as a result of a study of the "Condition of the NGO sector in Poland" in 2012, 62% of its members participate actively in the average voluntary firefighter's life. That's why this number came out, looking at how many firefighters there are. [[What about archiving?]] I've answered your question about this archive. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[There you go.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u404	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Kazimierz Necessary, a representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u405	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! First of all, I would like to thank all Members, Members and Members very warmly for their views and for hearing the request to refer the projects to the relevant committees in order to proceed with the procedure. Thank you very much. Uniform pensions, as I know, are paid from the state budget. This is for some of your fellow Members. In our system - it has been so, it remains so - the service to the state is appreciated, and pensions are not dependent on contributions, but on the last grade and salary. The system as it is, we all know, but the system can be changed, and that's what we're asking. As far as other voluntary formations are concerned, it is possible to make additions, including in this project. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, such a private remark. I represent the Legislative Initiative Committee here, not the Chief Executive, first of all. And secondly, I didn't show up in a fireman's uniform, as I do today, because no one would invite me. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u406	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, requests were made for additional referral of draft laws contained in prints Nos 852 and 852-A and 1534 respectively to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility on the preliminary proposal for constitutional liability before the Court of State of former President of the Council of Ministers Jarosław Kaczyński (print No 1340). I ask Mrs Iwona Arent to submit a report to the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u407	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report from the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility on the preliminary proposal to hold the former President of the Council of Ministers Jarosław Kaczyński to constitutional responsibility before the Court of State. The initial request was submitted on 19 November 2012. It was then that the group of Members sent this preliminary motion to the Marshal of the Sejm. It was signed by 148 Members, mainly from the Civic Platform. The applicant was represented by Mr Jerzy Kozron, who was no longer present during this term of office. The Committee on Constitutional Responsibility in the previous term of office did not consider this preliminary proposal, although it was more than 3 years old and a majority of the Parliament. Either they missed or they didn't want to make it, because the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility for this term of office doesn't have a basis for the validity of such a preliminary proposal. Marshal of the Sejm of this term of office in accordance with Article. On 13 July 2016, 7 of the Law of 26 March 1982 on the Court of State sent the above preliminary request to the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility. The Commission has examined this proposal and prepared a report. In carrying out the disposition of the article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Law of 26 March 1982 on the Court of State, the report of the Committee on Constitutional Liability and the proceedings was delivered to Members in print No 1340. The report contains a request from the committee for a resolution by the Sejm on the termination of proceedings and a request from minorities to exercise constitutional responsibility before the Court of State of the former President of the Council of Ministers Jarosław Kaczyński. The case files were and are made available for inspection at the Registry of the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility. All Members received this information on 6 April 2017. Anyone could have read the case files. Since everyone has been able to read the report, I am not going to read the whole report now. I will only address the main points of the report. First of all, I'm going to talk about the initial proposal. The proposal alleged that the person covered by the proposal between 10 July 2006 and 16 November 2007, acting as President of the Council of Ministers, first, on 11 September 2006 in Warsaw, acting to prevent political and social activity of political opponents of parties Law and Justice by trying to demonstrate that in Polish political, social and economic life there is a supposed network of political and business-social links of a criminal nature, so-called. An agreement has been issued by Order 138 on the Interministerial Group for the Prevention of Organised Crime, giving the Minister of Justice - the Prosecutor-General authority over the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, the Chief Police Commissioner, the Head of the Central Anti-corruption Office and the Head of the Internal Security Agency, requesting information on the actions taken and issuing binding instructions to these authorities. Secondly, on 19 April 2007 in Warsaw, acting in order to prevent political and social activity of opponents of political parties Law and Justice by trying to prove that in Polish political, social and economic life there is a supposed network of political and business-social links... [[Not supposed to be.]] ...on a criminal basis, issued Order No 40 on the Interministerial Crime Prevention Team, giving the Minister of Justice - the Prosecutor General's authority over the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, the Chief of Police, the Head of the Central Anti-corruption Office and the Head of the Internal Security Agency, to demand... [[Unlawful, constitutional-breaking power.]] ...to provide information on the activities undertaken and to issue binding instructions to these authorities. Thirdly, on 26 February 2007 and 27 March 2007, the President of the Council of Ministers did not fulfil his duties as President of the Council of Ministers in such a way as to initiate and participate in informal meetings with public officials under the authority of the Minister of Justice, the Prosecutor General, and representatives of the management of the Internal Security Agency and the Central Anti-corruption Office. In their course there were procedural decisions in cases conducted by the competent prosecutors' offices, excluding prosecutors conducting investigations in these cases. The Marshal of the VII-term Sejm sent a letter of 11 January 2013 to the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility asking whether the application was complete and whether it complied with the conditions laid down in the Law on the Court of State. Committee on Constitutional Responsibility of the Sejm of the 7th term of office after consulting experts of the Sejm Analysis Office and in relation to the provisions of the Law on the Court of State and K.p.k., in accordance with Art. Article 6 (6) (a) 6 of the Law of 26 March 1982 on the Court of State pointed out the need to complete the application in accordance with the conditions laid down in the Law on the Court of State by - and here were five indications - in short: to clarify the plea set out in point 3 of the preliminary application by indicating the type of infringement of interest, whether private or public interest, by indicating the place where the act was committed in relation to the impossibility of showing the approximate place where the act was committed, and, thirdly, to indicate the individual evidence on which the initial application is based, fourthly, to submit a list of the persons requested before the applicant's committee and fifthly to submit a separate list of the addresses of the persons requested before the committee of the applicant. The Marshal of the Sejm called on applicants to complete their initial application. The initial request was completed in respect of the deficiencies identified by clarifying the plea described in point 3 of the application, identifying the place of the offence and adding the list of persons requested by the applicant and indicating the evidence requested by the applicants. The application was re-evaluated in terms of completeness and compliance with the statutory requirements laid down in the Law on the Court of State. In its opinion issued by an expert at the Sejm Analysis Office on the fulfilment of the formal requirements by the initial request, the request still did not indicate from which evidence the applicant was able to draw up the factual findings which gave rise to the wording of the objections. The requests for evidence did not include Therefore also evidence which, in accordance with Article. 196 § 1 k.p.k. in conjunction with Article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Law on the Court of State would indicate the circumstances to be proven. [[There were other expertise, not just this one.]] At the same time, the study concluded that this lack does not disqualify the application. The Committee on Constitutional Responsibility has delivered a preliminary request to the person covered by the application. Former Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński appointed a defender, Janusz Wojciechowski, who works as a lawyer. During the proceedings conducted by the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility, the person covered by the proposal changed his lawyer and lawyer Janusz Wojciechowski replaced Mr Waldemar Bud, who was a legal adviser. Defenders of Jarosław Kaczyński received a copy of the initial application. And now I'm going to move on to formal issues. Why don't you let me... water, please? The defendant of the person covered by the application submitted a letter in which he took office... Oh, I'll get it. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, ……]] The defence of the person covered by the application lodged a letter in which he had taken a stand against the pleas in law and alleged that the proceedings by the Committee on Constitutional Liability had not been formally initiated contrary to the requirements of the Code of Criminal Procedure applicable in accordance with the wording of the Article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Law on the Court of State in proceedings before the Committee on Constitutional Liability, unless otherwise provided for in the Law on the Court of State. The Committee on Constitutional Responsibility of the 7th Sejm took note of the position of the person covered by the proposal. At these meetings, the lawyer Janusz Wojciechowski complained of the lack of formal initiation of proceedings before the committee, referring to the legal opinion presented by Prof. Piotr Kruszyński and Dr. Beata Bieńkowska, which concluded that the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility had to formally initiate proceedings. Nevertheless, the Commission adopted a resolution on 12 September 2013 on the content: the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility confirms that on 9 May 2013 it initiated proceedings against Jarosław Kaczyński for constitutional liability before the Court of State. There was therefore no formal initiation of the procedure, but a resolution was reached on the initiation of the procedure. This form is not known in Polish parliamentary law, and the committee in its current term of office considers that there was no basis for adopting such a resolution under the Law on the Court of State or under the criminal procedure. The Committee on Constitutional Responsibility of the Sejm of this term of office, VIII, however, is in the position presented in the expert opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office that the content of the article. 7 of the Law on the Court of State, according to which the Marshal of the Sejm refers the application to the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility, which initiates the procedure, means that the committee is obliged to initiate such proceedings. On the other hand, it cannot take any other procedural decision. This is also due to the rules of the Sejm. I would add here that the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility is an authority with procedural powers, but the position of the committee as a parliamentary committee indicates that it is an auxiliary body of the Sejm, and therefore cannot take any decision other than that which was taken on the proposal by the Marshal of the Sejm. The Committee on Constitutional Responsibility of the Sejm of the 8th term of office, not referring to the content of the resolution cited above, did not therefore share the view of the defender of the need to formally initiate proceedings for the examination of the initial application, considering the argument contained in the BAS opinion to be sufficient to explain the issue and continued the investigation without taking a decision to initiate the procedure. The procedure for the preliminary proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility of the Sejm of the 8th term of office... to hold the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility of the 8th term of office continued, as I mentioned earlier, because the Committee on Liability of the 7th term of office did not complete the procedure. Before the end of the term of office, any proposal from the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility could not be prepared - I mentioned this at the beginning. In view of the above, pursuant to Article. 13a paragraph. 1 of the Law on the Court of State continued to take place after the beginning of the 8th term of office. As I said, there has been a change in this term of office for the defender of the requested person. Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, former Chairman of the Council of Ministers, appointed a new defender, who was appointed Waldemar Buda, legal counsel. The new defender Jarosław Kaczyński filed a pleading letter on 29 November 2016 and responded in this letter to the allegations, evidence requests and questions of formal initiation of proceedings, which I also mentioned earlier. He maintained his position so far taken by the person covered by the application and the previous defender, requesting that the preliminary application be terminated, and also requested that the evidence submitted be rejected. Former Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński He also personally replied to the preliminary request by letter dated 12 December 2016, in which he stated that all the allegations made against him were devoid of factual and legal grounds... [[What do you mean? The regulation was issued as Prime Minister.]] ...and joined all arguments, claims and requests made by his defender in proceedings before the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility. The person covered by the application also stated that he had waived his right to be heard before the committee, since he considered that it was completely unnecessary for him to submit it because of the obvious unreasonableness of the pleas in law. I have previously mentioned to you what were the allegations made in the initial proposal. Here you can read the detailed report. I will now move on to the proposals of the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility. The Commission carried out evidence in the previous term of office. The Committee on Constitutional Responsibility carried out evidence from the hearing as a witness to Roman Giertych. The minutes of hearings, the annexes are available to you for on-the-spot inspection in the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility. At its meeting on 11 September 2014, Mr Konrad Kornatowski was also heard before the committee as a witness. I would also like to invite you to familiarize yourself with the committee of responsibility. The Committee on Constitutional Responsibility of the Sejm of the 8th term of office at its meeting on 12 December 2016 voted to dismiss the remaining evidence requests and closed evidence proceedings on a preliminary request to hold the former President of the Council of Ministers Jarosław Kaczyński accountable to the Court of State. On the basis of the evidence collected during the proceedings and on the content of the allegations made in the preliminary proposal, the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility considered that the former President of the Council of Ministers, Jarosław Kaczyński, had not committed the alleged acts, i.e. infringement of Article. 2, Article 7 and Article 7 Article 149 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1nd sentence of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, Art. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 of the Act of 8 August 1996 on the Council of Ministers, art. Paragraph 24 1, Article Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 4 and Article 4 36 of the Law of 4 September 1997 on the departments of government administration by issuing the following: Order No 138 on the Interministerial Task Force on the Prevention of Organised Crime and Order No 40 on the Interministerial Task Force on the Prevention of Criminal Crime. The Commission also considered that the requested person had not committed the offence alleged in point 3 of the preliminary proposal, which consisted in failing to fulfil the responsibilities of the President of the Council of Ministers by initiating informal meetings and attending informal meetings with public officials under the authority of the Minister for Justice, the Prosecutor General and representatives of the management... [[It's all written down.]] ... Internal Security Agency and Central Anti-corruption Office, during which procedural decisions were taken in cases conducted by the competent units of the prosecutor's office, excluding prosecutors conducting preparatory proceedings in these cases, and therefore in breach of the provisions of the Act of 20 June 1985 on the Prosecutor's Office, the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure and Article. 5 of the Act of 8 August 1996 on the Council of Ministers, acting to the detriment of the public interest in the form of justice and the regularity of the criminal proceedings in Case V Ds. 25/06, which would fulfil the marks of the prohibited act referred to in Article. Article 231 (1) of the Criminal Code. The committee therefore requests that the Sejm decide to discontinue proceedings against the former President of the Council of Ministers, Jarosław Kaczyński. And now I'll give you a brief explanation. The Commission analysed the allegations contained in the request, carried out evidence proceedings to examine their validity, assessed the evidence and circumstances collected and the legal analysis of the alleged acts. And so are you. I have spoken of the first two allegations, the initial proposal of the first and the second, and there is no doubt that the President of the Council of Ministers during this period... [[He's giving up, he's giving up.]] ... Jarosław Kaczyński issued Decree No 138 of 11 September 2006, as well as Order No 40 of 19 April 2007. Their content is also undisputed. According to Order 138, an Interministerial Anti-Criminal Team was set up as an ancillary body of the Council of Ministers, composed of representatives of the Minister of Justice, a minister - member of the Council of Ministers... [[But the powers were misassigned.]] ...the national procurator, the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, the Minister of Finance, the Chief of Police, the Chief of Border Guard, the Head of the Central Anti-corruption Office, the Head of the Internal Security Agency and the Chief Inspector of Financial Information. The chairman may also have invited representatives of other government administrations to participate in the team's work... [[It ended with Barbara Blida's death.]] ...as members of the team. As far as the tasks of this team are concerned, you can read this in the report, and I will no longer read what the tasks of this team were. However, it is clear that neither the Minister of Justice nor the chairman of the panel has any higher powers than those of other members of the team. Order 138 does not in any way formulate the powers and powers of the Minister of Justice as you propose. Moreover, it is worth pointing out that, according to the order, the Minister of Justice was only to designate his representative to the set-up team, and not necessarily to participate in its work alone. Also, the chairman of the team has no authority over the order. The tasks of the team are set out in the management in a comprehensive manner and are only consultative and coordinating. The main purpose of the band that... [[Masters of lies.]] Mr President, you have had more than eight years to complete this proposal... [[Voice from the room: We'll catch up.]] ...but you didn't have the majority... [[You have a committee report to do.]] ...because you lost even the motion for Zbigniew Ziobra and that's why you continued the pointless conclusion. And today I just want to introduce to you how pointless...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u408	Madam, it is a waste of time to discuss with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u409	The Commission assessed how pointless your proposal was.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u410	Mrs... [[Why talk to the Seym, huh?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u411	The tasks of the team are set out in the management in a comprehensive manner and are only consultative and coordinating. Same as the other team. The main purpose of the establishment of the team referred to in the latter order is precisely coordination, i.e. harmonisation, ensuring a smooth interaction with the actions taken by the competent governmental authorities to increase efficiency in the fight against organised crime. Pursuant to Order No 40, an Interministerial Crime Prevention Team was established as an ancillary body of the Council of Ministers. I'm not going to talk to you here about the task of this team either. You can reach for the report. The team's work was also headed by the chairman, he also convened meetings of the team, he could set up working groups, and technical and organisational services were provided by the Ministry of Justice. The chairman of the team was to keep the President of the Council of Ministers informed of the results of the work and activities of the team. I would like to remind you that, under the rule of the Civic Platform and PSL, Prime Minister Donald Tusk set up similar teams. Nor does the content of this arrangement allow for the adoption that it confers on the Minister of Justice the authority over the other members of the team, as it is different from the chairing of the team's work, and something else is the authority over the exercise by the members of the team of their own powers assigned to the functions and positions they have occupied, including the request to provide information on the activities undertaken and to issue binding instructions to these bodies. The content of the order does not give rise to such competence of the Minister of Justice. The tasks of the team indicated in the Management Board are only consultative and coordinating and relate to the fight against organised crime in Poland. Also in the case of this allegation, the preliminary proposal did not indicate how to demonstrate the motivation of the Prime Minister, which led him to issue an order, as an action to prevent political and social opposition to political parties Law and Justice by trying to demonstrate that in Polish political, social and economic life there is a supposed network of political and business-social links of a criminal nature. As regards the fact that the regulations and their content were issued, the carrying out of evidence in the form of hearings of witnesses and evidence from other sources, including hearings conducted in other proceedings and material from those proceedings, was unnecessary in so far as it went beyond the content of the orders. However, it should be added that none of the witnesses questioned by the committee has confirmed the intentions or motivations assigned to the former President of the Council of Ministers when issuing these regulations. None of the witnesses therefore confirmed in fact any of the grounds for the act described in the ground of appeal 1 and 2 of the preliminary application. This would be because of the impossible presented earlier. [[But why are you lying?]] In this respect, the Commission rejected the remaining evidence as it could not seek to demonstrate either the fact that the regulations were adopted or their purpose, which was expressed in a clear way. [[What's the point of lying?]] As regards the other evidence conclusions, it should be noted first of all that the preliminary conclusion did not provide any evidence to demonstrate which it was intended to pursue. Therefore, requests for evidence from the interrogation protocol of Janusz Kaczmark, Konrad Kornatowski, Jarosław Marc were rejected in the proceedings which took place in the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Zielona Góra. I'm not gonna tell you here anymore, because you can read how we went further, what the D.A.'s case was about. You can see this in the report. So as not to prolong... [[Applause]] No, no, it's not over yet. ...I shall proceed to the plea described in point 3 of the preliminary application. In point 3 of the preliminary request for... [[One and two.]] I've been discussing one and two. I think you were listening. I've been discussing it for a long time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u412	Member, please do not argue with the room. It's a waste of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u413	I'm going to move on to complaint three from the preliminaries. In point 3 of the preliminary request for constitutional liability of Jarosław Kaczyński, the charge of committing the offence described in the article was made. Article 231 (1) of the Criminal Code. The description of the prohibited act was formulated as follows: on 26 February 2007 and 27 March 2007 in the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, he failed to fulfil his duties as President of the Council of Ministers in such a way that he initiated and participated in informal meetings with officials under the authority of the Minister of Justice to the Prosecutor General, etc. He didn't do his job because he took part in the meeting of the band he called. In fact, one of these teams met - for your information - once or twice and the other never met at all. [[Impossible.]] At the outset of the above plea, it is necessary to emphasise that for the purpose of assigning an offence under this article, which I mentioned earlier, it is necessary to state that the conduct of the perpetrator is carried out by a set of marks of a prohibited act set out in that provision. These are e.g. the following indications: it is an individual offence; it can only be committed by a public official; it is necessary to establish that a public officer has exceeded his or her powers or failed to fulfil his or her duties; by exceeding his or her authority or failure to fulfil his duties, the officer has acted to the detriment of the public or private interest; the act of the perpetrator must be a deliberate act, so that the perpetrator must include the awareness and intent of all the marks of the prohibited act and, at the same time, its effect; the act of the perpetrator must have an effect in the form of, for example, the occurrence of a danger of injury in the public or private interest. Each of the characteristics described above must be proven by the perpetrator in the course of criminal proceedings. The lack of implementation of at least one of these conditions justifies the fact that the conduct under criminal review is not a criminal offence. In view of the first of the elements of the prohibited act referred to above, it should be pointed out that the definition of the concept of "public officer" is laid down in Article. 115 § 13 of the Criminal Code. On the basis of the present case, there is no doubt that Jarosław Kaczyński served as President of the Council of Ministers at the time specified in the plea and was therefore a public officer. With regard to the mark in the form of excess of entitlements and the failure to fulfil their obligations, it is necessary for them to be careless and to have a significant degree of generality. According to the criminal law doctrine, the excess of powers means that the act of the perpetrator either did not fall within his or her competence at all, or was, indeed, within that scope, but was taken contrary to the law or other regulations governing the duties of a public officer. Failure to comply with obligations implies that the obligation imposed on that public officer is not taken into account by law. Therefore, the defence officer of the requested person is right to point out that, in the present case, the description of the prohibited act, with negative regard for certain behaviours, the actions of the former President of the Council of Ministers, misplaced them as failure to fulfil their duties. This form of crime concerns primarily the failure to take up or carry out obligations and not their defective performance. As indicated in the literature, the act of committing the crime of art. 231 § 1 of the Penal Code, although specified as an act to the detriment of the public or private interest, it may consist in action, overstepping or failing to fulfil its obligations. For a detailed reconstruction of the scope of the criminal law standard, you will get to the report and read there. Marks of non-compliance - you will read this already. And so: the provision of the article. 148 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland lists the basic tasks of the President of the Council of Ministers in carrying out the tasks of the Council of Ministers, namely representing the Council of Ministers, directing the work of the Council of Ministers, issuing regulations, ensuring the implementation of the policy of the Council of Ministers, determining the ways in which it is implemented, coordinating and controlling the work of the members of the Council of Ministers, exercising supervision over the territorial self-government within the limits and forms laid down in the Constitution and in the laws, is the official head of government staff. On the other hand, according to the article. The President of the Council of Ministers may, in particular, designate the Minister for the matters in which he acts under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, request information, documents and periodic reports, or relating to a particular case or matter, from the Minister, the Head of the Central Office, the voivodeships, etc., order the carrying out of correspondence arrangements between the members of the Council of Ministers, convene, take part in and chair the meetings of the auxiliary bodies of the Council of Ministers or the President of the Council of Ministers, irrespective of their composition and scope, convene meetings with and chair the relevant ministers, heads of central offices or voivodeships, either from the office or at the request of the competent authority or at the request of the party, a matter falling within the competence of more than one minister or head of the central office to deal with the minister designated by him, notifying all this to the other competent authorities and parties. Last but not least, determine the scope of the ministers' action in the event of a dispute between ministers. Mark and remind: Art. 148 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I'm not done yet. I'm done. Knowing the basic constitutional and statutory responsibilities, the powers of the President of the Council of Ministers cannot in any way be found to exceed the powers or, even more so, not to fulfil the duties of the President of the Council of Ministers by initiating and taking part in any meetings involving other officers subordinate to him and other members of the Council of Ministers. I'm appealing to the Constitution. Take a look at this. There is no doubt, however, that the broad powers of the President of the Council of Ministers in determining the direction of State affairs and in carrying out the duties contained in the law entitle him to meet in formal advisory bodies, as well as ad hoc, informal groups with subordinate government officials and representatives of other public authorities, including representatives of the President's office, local authorities, prosecutors, professional authorities or non-governmental organisations, associations, religious associations. The practice of the office of the President of the Council of Ministers shows that holding such meetings is an integral part of the duties arising from the exercise of this function. So, summing up, as you can see, everything was done in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with Polish law. The proposals have no legal basis. This was assessed by the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility. If you would like to read this in detail, because what I have said is just such a general quote of the report as you want to read the report in detail, I invite you because it is very well prepared, substantive. Here I thank the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility for working on this report for a substantive, substantive discussion. Finally, the committee, following the inquiry at the committee meeting on 9 March 2007, adopted this report, which I presented to you in part. For all the above reasons, which I also presented, the adoption of the report by the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, together with the request to terminate the proceedings against the former President of the Council of Ministers, Jarosław Kaczyński, became justified and necessary. The committee therefore requests a resolution to terminate the proceedings. And, of course, at the end, I'm going to add that according to the article. 9g paragraph. The 4th Court of State Act is accompanied by a minority proposal prepared by Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, which is signed under this minority proposal as a representative, so that I invite you to take note of this minority proposal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for giving me the floor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u414	Thank you very much, thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Krystyna Pavłowicz will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club. [[It's gonna happen.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[It was worth staying for.]] [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u415	Mr. Marshal! Membership! We fully support the proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility for the waiver of proceedings by the Sejm concerning the exercise of responsibility before the Court of State of the former President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Jarosław Kaczyński. Dismissing proceedings in this case is the only solution that will allow the Sejm to retain its political prestige. The request by PO, PSL, SLD and the Palikot Movement submitted in the last term was a form of political revenge for trying to reform Poland during the period of the then Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński's government in 2005-2007. Devoid of basic legal knowledge, knowledge of the Polish Constitution and knowledge of the mechanisms of functioning of the state, a group of Members of the past majority tried to inefficiently publicise the statements of the then Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński legally. They were given the nature of constitutional crimes, and they were invented charges. It is alleged that Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński is responsible for preventing political and social opposition to political parties Law and Justice by trying to demonstrate that in Polish political, social and economic life there is a supposed network of political and business-social links of a criminal nature, so-called. the agreement, issued two orders conferring powers on certain ministers and that they informally met with ministers and other public officials, ridicule and discredit the authors of the proposal. For a few reasons. First of all... [[Only Barbara Blida's death contradicts that.]] ...the proposal is entirely hysterical innuendoes, innuendoes, and its own fearsome projections. [[Applause]] The proposal is in its entirety, without any legal and factual basis at all points, and does not at any point prove a violation of the Constitution or of the laws. Thirdly, he proves ignorance by the authors of the proposal of the basic institutions... [[Oh, you don't know the law.]] ... constitutional law and administrative law. The authors don't know the art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [6]. 2nd Constitution, which states that the Council of Ministers directs the government administration, that the Council of Ministers ensures the [[But there's art. Seven more.]] The authors don't know the art. 148 of the Constitution, which states that the President of the Council of Ministers directs the work of the Council of Ministers, that he ensures the implementation of the policy of the Council of Ministers and determines how it is implemented, that he coordinates and controls the work of the members of the Council of Ministers, that the President of the Council of Ministers is the official head of government staff. They don't know Art. 149 of the Constitution, which states that ministers direct certain departments of government administration or carry out the tasks assigned to them by the President of the Council of Ministers. [[And now the president's in charge.]] In turn, the Act on the Council of Ministers in Article. 11 authorizes the Prime Minister to set up arrangements for the auxiliary bodies of the Council of Ministers or the Prime Minister, in particular advice boards and advisory teams on matters belonging to... [[And Novgorod still works.]] ...for the tasks and competences of the Council of Ministers and the President of the Council of Ministers. The then Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński in the end of almost his government appointed two advisory and advisory teams for the fight against criminal crime and organized crime. One of them gathered one and two times, the other one didn't even get together once. [[Because he wasn't needed to get together.]] None of these two regulations, contrary to the lies of the motion, provided for any power of authority to anyone. In turn, the applicants twisted the words "recommendations' used in the orders, which, of course, are infidel in nature, on binding orders and on this basis accuse the former Prime Minister of abuse of power. This is just an example of dishonesty, irreality, amateurism and the failure of applicants. [[Applause]] From the above conclusions... It follows from these legal provisions that the Prime Minister has the competence and responsibility to direct the government administration in order to ensure the internal security of the State, has the competence to direct the work of the Council of Ministers, to coordinate the labour control of the members of the Council of Ministers, the Prime Minister, as the official authority of the government administration, has the right and the duty to formal but informal contacts and meetings with ministers and with each of the public officials and to consult them. The application for a Court of State for the President of Jarosław Kaczyński, lyingly misrepresenting the content of the regulations, bearing publicist comments, cannot be a serious basis for analysis at all, nor should anybody be charged with this. The then Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński acted strictly in accordance with the law, and the proposal turned out to be an empty, pathetic, embarrassing attempt at political revenge with the intention of eliminating a political competitor. President Jarosław Kaczyński carried out his duties as chief of government solidly, seriously, he didn't racket up, he didn't go to Owl and Friends, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] and his [[Game in the O.R.]] then the intuitions expressed in the publicist statements... [[But he gave up power.]] ...on the existence of political and business-social networks of criminal nature at the time of the government of PO-PSL [[♪ The bell ♪]] confirmed the practice and facts, numerous prosecutorial proceedings: Amber Gold...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u416	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u417	...reprivatization arrangement, funding of non-governmental organizations...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u418	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u419	...and any other... I'm already filing an official motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u420	I'll follow the time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u421	...parasite on companies of the Treasury.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u422	You're welcome, my fellow Member. Thank you very much. The floor will be taken...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u423	On behalf of the PiS Parliamentary Club... [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u424	...Mr Andrzej Halicki, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u425	... I ask for the report of the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility and rejection, Mr Marshal, of the minority proposal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u426	Thank you very much, Member. You're out of time. [[You have no authority with the Member, Mr Marshal.]] Please, Mr Andrzej Halicki, the Civic Platform Club. [[I'm not surprised.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u427	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's inept reading on time, I have to say, because... [[Game in the hall, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...there was actually only one real sentence in this argument made by the rapporteur. And that's really pathetic and embarrassing, because you have a chance and you should be even interested in explaining, and also determining, what are the systemic rules of government, ministries, that is, in short, setting limits of competence, because there may be different wills. But I'm talking about it because this scandalous report just requires integrity. Without even relying on the facts quoted from the work of the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility of the last term, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform shall request that the report submitted be returned in order to complete the proceedings. I'll explain why in a minute, which means I'll explain to you... This is a written request. This date, of course, is the date of the application, the only true fact you quoted - November 2012. The fact is that the proposal has been completed and indeed the committee has been working on several proposals, but less than 2 years on this proposal. Let me remind you that it's an art. 13 of the Law on the Court of State, i.e. Article. 13a, quoted, speaks of a continuation and we have had ten years of proceedings in the case of Ms Danuta Waniek, Minister Emil Wąsach. To suggest that it was necessary to close this procedure without questioning two witnesses, which was lacking to complete the procedure in its entirety, is just ignorance, first of all, and secondly, your duty should be to bring these witnesses, very important witnesses, including ministers of that government, to a hearing. I'm thinking about Janusz Kaczmarek. That's, among other things. He resisted to take power and abuse power by creating a super minister. What was the philosophy of power, which was clearly seen in the testimony of the witnesses, which the committee gathered during this procedure? I will quote one of the quotations from those meetings that did not take place because there was no meeting and of course there were no bands whose result was the death of Barbara Blida. You're trying to rustle that, too. There was no such death, there was no such accident, [[Applause]] just as there was no violation of the law by Mariusz Kaminski, just as there were no political blackmails, just as there was no result of these briefings, from the work of these teams of consequences in the form of a judgment of the court, the sentence of an absolute prison for Mariusz Kaminski. You're not gonna erase it, you're not gonna erase it just because you have a majority on the committee today. I will remind you of a quote from Jarosław Kaczyński, who said at the meeting of this group: First we will close Lepper, then Giertych, and then we will close our ministers to maintain power. That's one. the effect of the meeting [[Applause]] - of which there were at least ten teams that never took place. But for example. 26 February 2007 is the case for the sign. Act V Ds 25/06 concerned this arrangement, which resulted in the execution of which Barbara Blida was killed. On the other hand, there were others: Wacław Martyniuk, Krzysztof Janik, Jack Piechoty, Leszek Miller, and Alexander Kwasniewski. That's the steel evidence. And what was the purpose? Jarosław Kaczyński said: If there is any evidence, you must close. [[How's that?]] The execution of this closure resulted in... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] So, did the band meetings take place or not? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] If so, please inform the rapporteur that it has taken place. If this evidence were steel, they could be defended. You've had your chance in court, but you want to throw the case in the trash. I would also like to remind you that these blackmails concerned the entry of CBA into the LPR headquarters when there was an important vote. Mariusz Kaminski's case. These are criminal charges. And I would like to remind you that Jarosław Kaczyński has used the possibility of having prosecutors' files without even consulting prosecutors in the case. That is exactly what cannot be tolerated in a democratic state. Today we were in Oleśnica. And that's how you guarantee the safety of the citizens, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That journalists were being watched by secret police officers, filmed, photographed from the roof...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u428	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u429	...and the whole operation was like martial law. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u430	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Grabowski will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz team15. You're welcome. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But Mrs. Pavlowicz is out of time. You have to treat it evenly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u431	Jarosław Kaczyński, who experimented in 2007 and who acted on this motto, cannot be accepted. That's why I'm repeating the motion...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u432	Mr President, you have exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u433	...to refer this matter to the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u434	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u435	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 with regard to the report of the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility on the application for constitutional liability of Jarosław Kaczyński. In fact, as far as this proposal is concerned, if it were to be assessed from the point of view of quality, skill, content, it would probably be better to lower the veil of silence on this proposal. Besides, Mrs Pavłowicz has already said a lot about this. The quality of this proposal can be demonstrated, for example, by the fact that it was needed to be supplemented. And this is a request addressed, among others. by the Members of the Platform, he was withdrawn from the Platform by the Marshal. That's how you prepare for the case, well, it would seem serious, but the question is whether this is a serious matter. But before I get to the point of whether this is serious, I'm gonna say yes. Mr Halicki, you have brought up the case here. Barbara Blidy, sleep. Andrzej Lepper, talking about it, trying to show how important and serious this is. On the other hand, this proposal was submitted in 2012 and the parliamentary elections took place 3 years later. What have you been doing for three years? [[Exactly.]] Why, at a time when you had a majority in the Constitutional Responsibility Committee... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But there's a procedure. It doesn't work in three days.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please don't interrupt. Why didn't you rescind the motion? That's the first question. I'm saying, it would seem, it's serious. And why didn't you put Zbigniew Ziobra in front of the Court of State when there was a vote in the previous term and when five Members were missing a strange guess? How did this happen? [[Ten from PSL.]] And maybe 10 of PSL, all right. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are dealing with here is classic, marked, artificial Polish-Polish war, so-called fun. P-PiS, which means one with the other is wrestling, but everyone knows no one's gonna do anything to anyone. This shows the situation in which, for three years, you did not proceed with this proposal as it should have been, because if it were really important, you would have dismissed these absurd allegations, which are contained in the proposal, if there had actually been serious charges against Jarosław Kaczyński, and today you would have probably already been before the Court of State. Well, the motion was weak enough for you to wait. And the question is, why? Most of you are not members of the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility, I am. And I'm gonna tell everyone what this proposal is for. I mean, really. He's not here to bring someone to constitutional responsibility, because we all know in this Chamber that there's no real way to put someone in front of the State Court. Why? Because today the majority has a PiS and I do not believe it simply, I do not believe that the members of the PiS, the Law and Justice, in the sense: the ruling majority, will put the President of their party before the Court of State that they will consent to it. [[They'd finally be free.]] Not much -- you guys, when you had the opportunity, you didn't take advantage of it. In conclusion, however, what is the point of this proposal? A political spectacle, ladies and gentlemen, because when there were meetings... [[Game in the O.R.]] Wait a minute. Deprived? All right, maybe later, but look how many people are in the gym, what interest. Well, ladies and gentlemen, when there were subcommittee meetings, the media came... [[How much is Kukiz? Big club.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Wait a minute. Please don't disturb me. When they came... [[Game in the O.R.]] Don't disturb me, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal, can you calm down the festivities?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u436	Madame, please do not disturb the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u437	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! At the meetings of the subcommittee, when the media appeared, suddenly there was an incredible revival, especially those of the Platform Members, who knew that this is the moment when the wind should blow in the sails, because these sails appeared in the form of camera slides. And then there's the pressure on glass, and the story, and all sorts of theories, visions, hallucinations, and so on. But when the media's gone, it's boring. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say this: I am disgusted by the way politics are practiced in Poland, that on the basis of the antagonization... [[Change your profession as disgusted as you are.]] ...in the face of specific... No, I will not change, you better change your profession, because because of people like you not only am I disgusted with politics, but most Poles, Mr Grupiński. [[Applause]] And that's the problem. You do people's stings, the stings of one another. What's the point of this proposal? What's going on with this case? [[Voice from the room: Humility.]] What humility? I think you need to be humble. [[Applause]] And one more thing. The State here is accusing an infringement of Article. 231 in this motion, and I feel... [[You're a PiS appetizer. They're gonna come after you like they're after Lepper.]] Mr Grupiński, this album with this PiS appetizer is already broken. Okay, okay. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Last sentence, Marshal. The real point of this proposal is that you want to bet...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u438	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u439	...on charges of violation of the article. 231, but it's the applicant, in my opinion...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u440	Now, on behalf of the club, the state of the art will speak...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u441	...they're violating art. 234...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u442	...Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u443	...so it's a false accusation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u444	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! We would like to say, Mr Kaczyński, but I don't think the courage has happened. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: It stood, it stood!]] It is interesting that today, 7 June 2017, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland discusses a request for constitutional liability before the Court of State of the former President of the Council of Ministers Jarosław Kaczyński. I will remind you that Mr Jarosław Kaczyński was Prime Minister 10 years ago, i.e. before the end of the two consecutive term of the Sejm, and the application is dated on 19 November 2012, the beginning of the previous term of the Sejm. It was submitted by a different majority of the Sejm, it was a very different majority than the current majority of the Sejm, it was the majority in which the Civic Platform and the PSL had the advantage, and it was the majority, which only after 5 years of rule submitted a proposal that the former President of the Council of Ministers Jarosław Kaczyński should stand before the Court of State. [[Voice from the room: Funny.]] The Civic Platform carried out the proceedings of the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility so badly that it was ultimately unsuccessful in the previous term of office of the Sejm - unlike the PiS, which settled the matter of redemption within 2 hours, using the majority and voting against the proper procedure of evidence. [[Then sign up for the PiS, it's more efficient there.]] And the charges in it are serious. They consist, among others. the findings of two committees of inquiry, the committee on the investigation of the death of Barbara Blida and the pressure committee. Reading Barbara Blida's death committee report shows that we were dealing with a situation when the ABW heads took over the manual management of prosecutors running specific cases. However, the report of the Press Committee states that during the period examined by the committee, the members of the Council of Ministers, as well as the CBA and ABW heads, had an illegal influence on CBA, ABW officers, prosecutors and persons acting in the judicial authorities and that there is a legitimate possibility of committing a crime, among others. by Jarosław Kaczyński, Zbigniew Ziobra and former head of the CBA of Mariusz Kaminski and other persons who would commit a breach of authority, failure to fulfil their duties or a declaration of falseness. In the summary of the report of the pressure committee we read, among others.: There was a very strong political pressure that the actions of the prosecutors and special services focused primarily on the fight against the system defined as the source of all pathology in Poland. When we observe the current term of the Sejm, we have the impression that this arrangement, according to the PiS, was the courts, because we see a massive attack on the courts. Despite such serious allegations, the request to hold Jarosław Kaczyński accountable to the Court of State was lost at an even earlier stage than the one related to Zbigniew Ziobra. I would like to remind you that the former and the current Minister of Justice lacked a previous majority of 5 votes - five votes which could have prevented Zbigniew Ziobra from performing public functions and thus disassembled the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court and the National Court. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, dismantling is progressing and there is nothing we can do about it under the law. We can wait for the next term of the Sejm and convince Poles to trust us enough so that we can submit and this time successfully carry out a new proposal concerning the Court of State. [[After 17 years.]] And we're gonna do it at the first possible moment because Zbigniew Ziobro's been robbing himself all the time. But let's go back to Jarosław Kaczyński, because here such a conclusion seems impossible. Formally Jarosław Kaczyński does not perform any functions in the state, he is a private Member and does not make decisions, so he cannot be punished for anything. As of today, the former Prime Minister, and now the super-president and the super-president, can only be punished for the abuse of 2005-2007. But we're not gonna do it. We will not do this because today's Sejm will reject the application of the previous Sejm, and once rejected the application to appear before the Court of State cannot be repeated. This means that Jarosław Kaczyński will never, I repeat, ever bear responsibility before the Court of State for abuse in the years 2005-2007. [[Applause]] [[Don't be so sure.]] This is the greatest omission of the Seym of the previous two terms. Members of the previous term of office did not just vote on the proposal, they forgot to withdraw it. And that is why Jarosław Kaczyński will remain unpunished. [[Why should we withdraw?]] Someone lacked political imagination, lacked consequences, lacked courage. Someone means PO, Polish People's Party, SLD and Movement Palikot. There was no responsibility for the country. PSL, who did not want to punish Jarosław Kaczyński, lacked courage. [[Voice from the room: The basics weren't there.]] Because in your previous term of office, you've run out of all of this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Jarosław Kaczyński can sleep peacefully from now on. It's a pity Poland can't sleep just as peacefully. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u445	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u446	On behalf of the Modern Club, I request that the Constitutional Responsibility Committee be reassembled with a request to hold Jarosław Kaczyński responsible in order to complete... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u447	Thank you, Member. Ms Genowef Tokarska will now speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u448	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on this report by the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility. First of all, it should be noted that the proposal was the subject of proceedings of the VII-term Sejm, which had not been completed before the end of that term and that, in accordance with the Law on the Court of State, is still pending during the VIII-term of the Sejm. The committee's report concerns the preliminary proposal of 19 November 2012 signed by 148 Members of the previous term of office. The applicant was represented by Mr Jerzy Kozron. The proposal contains allegations of what Jarosław Kaczyński was supposed to do during his term of office, acting as President of the Council of Ministers. The applicants argue that these are allegations eligible for constitutional responsibility of the former President of the Council of Ministers. Direct charges include: provisions which, according to the applicants, were intended to prevent the political and social activities of political opponents of the parties Law and Justice. Jarosław Kaczyński, acting President of the Council of Ministers, issued Order No 138 on 11 September 2006 on the Interministerial Team for the Prevention of Organised Crime and then, on 19 April 2007, Order No 40 on the Interministerial Team for the Prevention of Criminal Crime. The applicants stress that the aim of the two teams was to try to demonstrate that in the political, social and economic life of our country there is a supposed network of political and business-social links of a criminal nature, i.e. so-called. A deal. In addition, those regulations gave the Minister of Justice - the Prosecutor General - the authority over the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, the Chief of Police, the Head of the CBA and the Head of the ABW - to ask for information on the actions taken and to issue binding instructions to these authorities. This constitutes an infringement of Article. 2, Article 7 and Article 7 149 Constitution of the Republic of Poland, as well as art. 34 Act on the Council of Ministers and Art. 36 Government Departments Act. Moreover, on 26 February and 27 March 2007, he failed to fulfil his duties as President of the Council of Ministers in such a way that he initiated and participated in informal meetings with public officials under the Minister of Justice, the prosecutor general, at which meetings took place procedural decisions in cases conducted by the prosecutor's office, without, of course, prosecutors conducting preparatory proceedings in these cases. Thus, the provisions of the Act on the Prosecutor's Office, the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Act on the Council of Ministers were violated. This was evidently detrimental to the public interest and the regularity of the criminal proceedings. In conclusion, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party does not share the position of the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility, which, by the majority of the members of the Law and Justice, calls for the termination of this procedure. On the basis of the collected material and the conduct of the hearing of some witnesses, there are still many doubts and questions. One of them: Why did the applicant, Mr Jerzy Kozron, who is no longer present today, not take part in the committee's work, although we have sought to do so? Why is there so much doubt and the Barbara Blida case not fully resolved? Jarosław Kaczyński's actions are controversial. It clearly affected the interests of the state authorities, in particular the prosecutor's office, because decisions on procedural actions were made at political level and were not the result of the proceedings conducted. [[♪ The bell ♪]] By the prosecutors. We believe that the clarification of these many controversial cases before the Court of State is not a judgment for the former President of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u449	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u450	Both for himself and for others...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u451	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u452	...today's state managers are a moment for deeper reflection. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u453	Mr Stanisław Huskowski, near the European Union of Democrats, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u454	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the pleasure of speaking on behalf of the circle of the European Union of Democrats. There's an old saying that makes sense so that not reacting to evil gets revenge three times. [[Applause]] More than 10 years ago, the President of the Council of Ministers, breaking the rules, appointed two inter-ministerial teams, giving them more competence than the law provides for. Moreover, he subjected some of the chief authorities and ministries to one minister, the Minister of Justice - of course, the famous orders of Prime Minister 138 and 40, the first of 2006, the second of 2007. - so the President of the Council of Ministers broke the constitution then. Unfortunately, after taking over power for years, the opposition did not take action to put Jarosław Kaczyński before the Court of State. Only after 5 years has the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility addressed this issue at the request of Members of the Civic Platform. The Commission's action in view of the legal complexity and the lack of clear political will of the then parliamentary majority did not end with a proposal to the Court of State until the end of its previous term of office. The state here, my predecessors, was arguing that the Civic Platform did not have the will, but let us remember that the Civic Platform cannot be compared in any way to the current majority of the PiS, because it itself did not exercise power. [[Voice from the Chamber: The Prime Minister has a duty to be effective.]] In the Civic Platform there was a will to be president, while the Platform had no parliamentary majority and could not do so effectively. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: This is not the case.]] Applications shall be made. If you see lawlessness, it reacts, even if you don't have the strength to push it through. And obviously... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Madame, do not argue with the jury.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u455	Do not discuss in the Chamber now, there is a statement by the Member. Mr President, please continue.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u456	This is outrageous, to be honest, what you're saying. If we see evil, we apply for punishment. Even if there is no such majority at present, it may come in the future. [[Applause]] Responding to evil is not economical. You should not only react if you clearly have the chance to succeed. Unfortunately, today, with regard to the motion to dismiss the case that came from the PiS, it is clear that the case will be dismissed. Today the unaccounted and unpunished president of PiS is bidding much higher. The party he directs almost every step of the way violates the law, including the constitution. Such effects result in not reacting to evil, then maybe small, after years. At that time, the shy attempt by the Prime Minister to partially centralize power today results in the building by Jarosław Kaczyński of the real centralism of state authorities, which in recent times was called the Democratic Centralism, when in one hand all power, legislative power, executive power, is concentrated when it is subject to judicial authority. The old Montescius division of power is no longer in force. But science doesn't go into the woods. Whoever takes power after Law and Justice will certainly settle the rulers today. The Court of State will have his hands full in the future term of office. Today, it is obvious that the European Union of Democrats opposes the resolution of the case and supports the request to refer the case back to the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u457	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Would any of you like to join us in the questions? [[I would like to correct the earlier statement that concerned me.]] Please, Mr Andrzej Halicki, in the correction procedure. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u458	In the procedure of correction, Mrs Marshal, because here Mr Grabowski put me in doubt that the President of the Council of Ministers abused rights, directing individual decisions without a legal basis, that because it was once, it should be closed and not returned to the case, because it was a long time ago. That is the problem, that is the responsibility of the Constitutional Commission today, also the prestige of the House, that, being president today, de facto unauthorized even to run resorts or services, it takes these decisions on a daily basis. That is why we must not underestimate what has happened in the past. That's what it was all about, and that's what this proposal is about, to lead to the finals in the criminal trial, because there are grounds for the investigation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u459	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. Would any of you like to join the list? If not, I'm closing. Please, Mr Lech Kołakowski, Law and Justice. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u460	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Questions for the rapporteur to the committee. From 2012, when the initial request was made to hold Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński accountable, the Civic Platform ruled until 2015. She had all the services at her disposal, the case was under investigation. Is it known whether the service has filed any legal charges that would prove to be true in this case? And second question. Is it true that this is only political action? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u461	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Witold Zembaczyński, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u462	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The sins of Jarosław Kaczyński and Zbigniew Ziobro from 2005-2007 are undeniable. Unfortunately, these gentlemen today operate in a redecisive environment. [[Applause]] This was due to some slowness, carelessness in the approach of representatives of POs and PSL to the constitutional obligation, which is to settle governments in a way that is contrary to the constitution. Therefore, from this point of view, I ask the question: What has prevented you from getting over yourself for a long time and not settling those who have been waiting for this settlement calmly for many years? And the next question that comes up here is: Is the Court of State, in which politicians account for politicians at all, an institution capable of accounting politicians? Therefore, as a modern one, we propose a complete reform of this institution and a new formula for it to work more efficiently so that the story that we are experiencing a retrospection of what was in 2005 and 2007 will never be repeated again, but twice as hard. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u463	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u464	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you a question. Is it true that Jarosław Kaczyński may have exceeded his powers by initiating meetings and attending informal meetings with public officials under the authority of the Minister of Justice, the Prosecutor General and representatives of the management of the Internal Security Agency and the Central Anti-corruption Office, in which procedural decisions were pending in cases conducted by the competent authorities of the prosecutor's office with the exception of prosecutors conducting investigations in these cases? The rapporteur referred to the Sejm Analysis Office as an opinion. Why are those opinions the only thing that matters? Why do do dozens of opinions from the Sejm Analysis Office end up in a basket just because you think they're unbelievable? I'll tell you why. Because you're dishonest. You cheat, you're dishonest. [[Voice from the room: No screaming.]] I am not surprised that at the end of your speech there was no statement that the application for punishment was unfounded. For one reason, because it would turn out that Mr. Jarosław Kaczyński doesn't exist at all. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I will tell you: the President, the Prime Minister, the ministers will be brought before the Court of State. It's not gonna help them to say that they were just following orders...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u465	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u466	... Jarosław Kaczyński. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u467	Thank you, sir. Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club. [[Rysiek to the gynecologist will go.]] [[Voice from the gym: You're in the psychiatrist's office.]] I would ask for peace in the Chamber, Madame Member. You're welcome to speak...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u468	Member, I also recommend a doctor. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We remember the years 2005-2007, we remember these governments well. We remember Lepper, we remember Giertych, we remember Kaczyński, we remember that communist hack Kryża, who was a minister in your government. But it doesn't disqualify that the government was so hopeless, the weak government you created, because that was the outcome of the election, you had the right to do so. It doesn't even disqualify you that the government you created you and your agent, Matthew Piskorski. He supported your government. That's not even what disqualifies you. It disqualifies you, and ultimately disqualifies you as people who have a moral right to rule that you abused power, that you violated the law. The death of Barbara Blida, the ground scandal, the provocations used by the CBA, the lies of Ziobra, the sentences in these cases were passed, Minister Kaminski, Minister Wąsik, and the sentences in these cases. It's all disqualifying you. You have no right to rule. In a democratic state of law, persons who [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're breaking the law... [[Voice from the room: People will decide the law.]] ...should suffer very severe consequences and the fact that you have not suffered convection, this is the most serious charge concerning the previous term of office. For the effects of this omission...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u469	Go ahead and finish it. [[Time, time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u470	For the effects of this omission...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u471	I'm asking you to calm down. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u472	...and the lack of responsibility today we pay very hard. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u473	I'm sorry, my fellow Member, but I'm the one in charge. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm asking you to calm down. [[It's okay. Time's up.]] Finish your statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u474	Madame, if you are a marshal, you will be able to shout.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u475	Mr President, finish your statement. Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u476	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! The allegations clearly show that already in the years 2005-2007 Jarosław Kaczyński wanted to have a subjugated Police, the prosecution's office and courts to have absolute power in Poland, and only because he was not punished for it, today he realizes his dream of a great Poland subordinate to Jarosław Kaczyński. What's the biggest problem? Why do we say that it is not only your great sin not to complete the matter of this proposal, but also your failure to withdraw it? ? Because today, the remission of this case will make Jarosław Kaczyński no longer be able to be held responsible for these cases, because it is impossible to make twice a request to the Court of State in the same matters in relation to the same policy. Therefore, today Kaczyński is supposed to be indirectly a judge in his own case, having an influence on this side of the room, and thus [[♪ The bell ♪]] The PiS-owski Sejm will cancel this motion and we will never settle Jarosław Kaczyński for his sins again... [[Never.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u477	Finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u478	...governments in the years 2005-2007. This is your fault. [[Applause]] [[Oh, oh, oh.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u479	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u480	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am not surprised that Mr Kaczyński is not here, because this debate today unfortunately does not matter. Why? [[Of course.]] Why, from November 2012, for 3 years until October 2015, despite serious charges against Jarosław Kaczyński, but also on the occasion of Zbigniew Ziobra, despite these gentlemen's actions violating the fundamentals of the democratic rule of law, despite Barbara Blida's death, they have not been filed with Kaczyński or Minister Ziobrze, they have not been brought before the Court of State, and you are the only one who knows... [[Because there was no basis.]] ...God, Civic Platform, PSL, SLD and Palikot Movement. [[We know, too.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have allowed the perpetrators to escape justice. That's how we define craftsmanship. Now I'm asking from the perspective of this year-and-a-half of PiS's violations of law. Was it worth it? Was it worth being crafty? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u481	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u482	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen and ladies of the Civic Platform and the PSL! [[Voice from the room: Ladies and gentlemen.]] What have you done, gentlemen and ladies? What have you done? [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] [[Voice from the hall: We're playing.]] [[The curtain.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u483	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Jaros, Modern Club. [[Michael, come on, really.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u484	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The question to the rapporteur, Madam President. Is it true that Jarosław Kaczyński may have exceeded his authority by order 40... [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] ...in the case of an inter-ministerial crime-fighting team, giving the Minister of Justice, the Prosecutor General, the authority over the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, the Chief of Police, the Head of the Central Anti-corruption Bureau, the Head of the Internal Security Agency, to request information on the actions taken and to issue binding instructions to these authorities? [[Voice from the room: Not true either.]] I'm asking you to answer that question. Once again, at the very end, I want to remind you of what the Modern has foretold. Mr. President Andrzej Duda... [[He's going to jail!]] ...and Prime Minister Szydło... [[They'll be sitting down, sir!]] ...they will be brought before the Court of State, we promise you that. [[Applause]] [[You'll be gone in your next term.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u485	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Michael Szczerba, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u486	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Oil is always just, and it flows out, and it comes out... [[Voice out of the room: It will come out, it will come out.]] ...because you don't learn anything. [[Voice from the room: Neither do you.]] Exactly 10 years ago, Jarosław Kaczyński created this non-constitutional centre, which gave powers to individual ministers not in accordance with their powers. [[Voice from the hall: Have you been drinking again?]] Today, the situation is quite different. Today the situation is quite different and we observe it every day. Today there is an extra-constitutional center in Nowogrodzka and that is the fundamental difference. It's the fundamental difference when we watch the national prosecutor Mr. Święczkowski pull up... [[You're watching?]] ...for a three-hour rug to President Kaczyński. And we don't know what's going on. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] Then there was an order, then there were powers that were specified in the order. There's a dark curtain left in the president's office today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Get in line!]] And that's where you'll be accounted for. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u487	Thank you very much, sir. I'm asking the right side of the room for peace. I invite Mr Andrzej Halicki. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: What else doesn't he know?]] [[Voice from the room: Sage.]] [[A little serious, I beg you, and substance.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u488	Mrs. Marshal! To the rapporteur, the question is: Is it true that non-existent teams did not meet at their meetings... For example, on 26 February 2007, we recorded these words: First we close Lepper, then Giertych, and then we close our ministers to maintain the power that Jarosław Kaczyński pronounced. Did he really talk about closing Barbara Blida at the next meeting? Did this really happen in April 2007? Was there blackmail against the League of Polish Families or not, since there was no such execution and there was no such team? Were there wiretapping operations used against the so-called. N.N., which concerned ministers, the President of the Republic, his wife? Isn't that information in the witness statements? How long was the list of witnesses that weren't questioned? Whether and why the documents of the public prosecutors and of the Green Góra, which reveal the transcripts of conversations that were supposedly not there, were abandoned, and neither was there [[♪ The bell ♪]] These bands, like there was no Barbara Blida's death at all? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u489	Thank you very much. Mr Waldemar Buda, the Law and Justice Club, is the last question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u490	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! This conclusion is a ruthless attack on the leader of the opposition at the time... [[Pardon me.]] ...who was driven by the sole concern for the rule of law in the country, [[Joy in the Chamber]] in which he was the President of the Council of Ministers. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, after five years of government, this is a cry of helplessness and helplessness because you have not found any serious charge. You insisted on the legal accusations that are a complete embarrassment. How can we accuse failure to fulfil our obligations by initiating meetings? [[By manual control of the D.A.'s office, by issuing judgments, as if he were a court of law.]] This is, ladies and gentlemen, a disgrace with the participation of former Deputy Minister of Justice, Jerzy Kozron. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether it is true that these requests to redirect the case to the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility are a clear extension of the procedure. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u491	Thank you very much. The rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Iwona Arent, will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u492	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will address some questions, some of them that can be addressed, because some of them cannot be addressed or I do not know how. [[Especially if you don't know.]] Maybe one at a time. At the beginning, during the speech on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, Mr Halicki said that the meetings of the teams were held. I don't know where you get that knowledge because I'm familiar with... [[From witness statements, ministers.]] But if you don't mind... You asked a question, so I'll answer it. I took note not only of the statements made before the Court of State of the former President of the Council of Ministers, Jarosław Kaczyński, but also of all the statements made before the Court of State of Zbigniew Ziobra. No one, none of the witnesses have confirmed that there's been a lot of meetings. [[And the testimony of Janusz Kaczmark, Minister of Interior and Administration?]] It's confirmed that one team met once or twice, and the other team doesn't have any... [[Speech outside the microphone]] [[Quiet, don't interrupt!]] But, gentlemen, fake news now you're selling here. You know what fake news is? [[And the testimony of Prime Minister Giertych?]] At this point, you, as a representative of the Civic Platform and Mr Halicki... [[Speech outside the microphone, ringtone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u493	I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u494	...you sell here, in the Parliament hall, fake news. [[Please read the documents, Member.]] That's what we have to avoid - fake news. [[Barbara Blida wasn't killed either.]] Now, as far as Mrs Lubnauer is concerned... [[Voice from the room: Palikot Movement.]] It's modern, isn't it? From Modern... [[The Palikot movement.]] The Palikot movement... Committees of Investigation. Former committees of inquiry, former pressure committees. None of these committees led to any criminal charge against anyone in the government of the former President of the Council of Ministers, Jarosław Kaczyński. [[It's the other way around.]] I will refer here to Mr Kołakowski's question... [[And who did the president pardon?]] ...because it's a similar question. Even the chairman of the so-called committee of inquiry. pressured, in the sixth term, seems to have functioned, this committee worked, entered here, into the plenary room, I remember that day, and confessed - I remind you, a member of the Civic Platform, the chairman of this committee - he said that there is no reason for anyone to... [[The request for the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility was made as a result of the Blida Committee.]] ...any charges against you. And for that, you just threw Mr. Chauma off the Civic Platform, as I recall. [[Exactly.]] Well, yes, it was. But he said there's no reason to charge anyone. That was the outcome of the committee of inquiry. Similarly, with the investigative committee on the Mrs Blida's death. I'm gonna ask you another question later. One at a time. Mrs Tokarska spoke about the fact that procedural decisions were taking place. No, I was already talking in my report about the fact that there wasn't, and I proved that there were no procedural decisions. There's no proof of that... [[Exactly.]] ...and none of the witnesses have confirmed it. So it's also fake news. [[Fake news next.]] Yeah, I'll call it fake news right away. Come on. Why hasn't it been on the committee of Mr Jerzy Cozron yet? In this respect, at the very beginning of my term of office, I asked for the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office on how to deal with the proposal when most applicants are no longer in the Sejm, and the chairman, the representative of the applicants, is also not in the Sejm. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[And how does that relate to the facts? What does that have to do with facts?]] [[Quiet!]] The answer of the Sejm Analysis Office was clear: there is a continuation whether or not any more persons are still in the next term of office. There is no discount, even though these people are missing. So there was no obligation on my part or on the part of the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility to inform Mr Jerzy Kozron. [[Of course.]] I would also like to add to your point that Mr Jerzy Kozron He's sitting at the State Court today. Now Mr Huskowski said as a mantra: he broke the premier rules, he broke the law. I've told you here several times, there's no evidence of that, so I won't repeat myself again. And none of the witnesses confirmed it. In the end, I will briefly quote the testimony of witnesses, some idols, some of you are an idol... [[Voice from the room: Idols.]] Idol. Yeah, idol. [[Whatever.]] Mr. Giertych or Mr. Kornatowski are idols, right? [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm gonna quote their statements later, and you're gonna see what they said after that statement. Mr Zembaczyński: Is the Court of State an institution capable of betting and clearing politicians? [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: That's rhetorical, you don't answer.]] I don't know. It's not for me. Mr Meysztowicz. Opinions were from the Office of Sejm Analysis not only at my request, but a few opinions on... I would like to remind you that this case has been in the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility since 2013 and the committee has been working in some way all this time. Opinions of the Sejm Analysis Office were also prepared for the committee at a time when the Civic Platform and PSL coalition ruled. So that it cannot be said that the Office of Sejm Analysis only on request during the current term of office presents opinions. That's not true. Yeah, fake news. Mr Szłapka remembers the times of government in 2005 and 2007 that the hopeless government... [[Where? The nursery doesn't remember.]] Well, not anymore, so they cleared your constituents. Today, the voters trusted us. Democracy is that it's not your choice in the next election... [[Yes, sir.]] ...only society, people, and people will judge whether we rule well or not. [[I'm gonna want to correct it.]] So let's leave it to society after all. No one has come up with a better system than democracy, so let us rely on democracy, that is, on the governments of the majority. [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr Suchoń: Why has Jarosław Kaczyński not been charged since 2013? I don't know, I think it's a question for the Civic Platform, if it was worth being a scumbag. That's not a question for me. [[Dunin will answer.]] On the other hand, I already said in my report that the Civic Platform simply did not want to press charges because the conclusion, as many people have said, was weak. It's just that it didn't seem like it was about embarrassing yourself and bringing this conclusion to the point of betting... [[To the end.]] ...premiere of Jarosław Kaczyński before the Court of State. I do... That's my opinion, of course. Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus: What have you done? I don't think that's a question for me either. [[Your Marshal...]] [[No, sir, these are answers to questions, not corrections.]] Mr Jaros, about this: Is it true that Jarosław Kaczyński has exceeded his powers? I am the one who can tell you briefly: it is not true and I in the report... Besides, you can reach out, there are also materials, documents, you can see, you can read the report, because it is available to all Members. It is clear in the report that he has not exceeded his powers, so that is not true. I will not refer to Mr Honourable here. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Right.]] [[I didn't ask you a question.]] Mr Halicki: Is it true that 26 February, etc., etc. Have there been meetings? Yeah, I'm not even gonna be here... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u495	Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u496	So I'm telling you right now. Mr Halicki is not here. Fake news. Fake news, because none of the witnesses and any evidence exist for any meetings on this issue... [[Then please, I'll say it again, please read all the documents again.]] ...was happening. [[Game in the O.R.]] There haven't been any meetings like this. And no witness has confirmed it. I'm here again... [[Because you didn't read the papers. Then what are you talking about?]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] ...I will repeat to you that Mr Chuma...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u497	I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u498	...who was chairman of the Civic Commission's Platform for Investigation on So-called pressure, he said there's no reason to press charges against anyone. And I'm saying it again. [[And that's the end of it.]] And that was your member of the Civic Platform. [[You read one sentence.]] Mr Buda: are there now proposals to return this proposal to the committee? This is pointless, because so much evidence that we've been familiar with, he's shown us that there's no reason for the committee to make a different decision, there's no evidence that they're illegal... In fact, the teams that were set up were set up in accordance with the law, the activities of these teams and the justification for the activities of these teams... I remind you, one team hasn't met at all, and the other team has met one or two times, so the witnesses say. Therefore, there is no reason to go back to the cause, to call witnesses again, and to interrogate when they confirm what? That these bands are... They're not gonna confirm... [[They won't confirm.]] ...that these teams were legally established. It doesn't make any sense. This is really a political action, not a substantive one. The Commission worked fairly, everyone could express themselves during the work of the committee. I gave the floor to every person who spoke. The Commission has decided by a large majority to prepare such a report, and this report has been transmitted here in the plenary room of the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u499	Thank you very much, Member. Two Members have come forward to correct the situation. Mr Adam Szłapka. [[What's the title at all?]] Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u500	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Report, i.e. The corrigendum... [[Voice from the room: In what mode?]] ... misunderstood speech. The Member clearly misunderstood me. I told you this government was hopeless in 2005-2007. [[How old were you then?]] Enough to remember this government well. And you said you were proudly accounted for by the voters because you won the election. That is not true, Madam Member. You guys lost in 2007... [[You guys won.]] ...with a mole and for the next eight years, you've lost every election one at a time, [[Applause]] One by one. But it doesn't disqualify you for losing... [[2%.]] ...this election then, just that you were breaking the law. You were breaking the law... [[You weren't here yet.]] Don't disturb me, sir. You lost the 2007 election because you had a terrible government. And you should be accounted for for... [[You're hopeless!]] ...you should be accounted for for breaking the law, and you should never return to power again because you abuse power. Because you can't do this. [[It's not a correction, it's polemics!]] That's exactly the correction. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u501	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Andrzej Halicki, as corrected, 1 minute. [[But you know it's not gonna be a corrigendum, he's gonna tell stories, too.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u502	Nice to meet you. There's a time when it's worth watching. For cooling I recommend especially. [[You'll be telling stories.]] A few seconds, so I'll say this: if he's under oath in front of the committee, I'll remind you that there's a crime like perjury. If it's not true, then... [[Exactly.]] ...as testified by Roman Giertych, the Deputy Prime Minister of Government, chaired by Jarosław Kaczyński, or Janusz Kaczmarek, Minister of Interior and Administration... [[Your appetizer.]] ...Whether Mr. Kornatowski or Mr. March, who was in charge of important services at the time, or Mr. Netzel, the company in turn, sue them for false testimony before the committee. [[But they didn't charge at all. What are we suing them for? But they weren't lying.]] You have reports, so sue them for perjury.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u503	Thank you very much. I understand that the rapporteur is still here. You're welcome. [[Even they didn't want to lie.]] Madame, I ask you to remain calm.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u504	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I did not want to extend here any longer, but I would like to quote Mr Halicki from the witness statement report briefly so as not to prolong it any longer. [[Come on.]] Witness Roman Giertych testified that he did not attend meetings that were to take place on February 26th and March 27th... [[So what?]] [[So what?]] ...at the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, during the... [[Liar.]] Excuse me? ...in the course of which a case was to be brought concerning an investigation in which Barbara Blida's name appeared. He also testified that he did not know if Prime Minister Kaczyński had influenced the course of the investigation. He added: I have not witnessed any situation in which Prime Minister Kaczyński would give direct orders to Mariusz Kaminski or Zbigniew Ziobro. Interrogation protocol... [[Shame.]] ...witness - this is where I direct - from the day... [[Shame.]] ... 7 November 2013 According to this witness, Jarosław Kaczyński had no knowledge of the background to the procedural decisions taken in the investigation... [[Exactly!]] ...stopping Barbara Blida. But it's not over. I'll give you the testimony of Konrad Kornatowski, I'll remind you, Chief Chief of Police. The witness testified that he attended one or two meetings, and that's why we know that one or two of the meetings of this one team were held... [[No, based on the testimony, for example. Minister Kaczmarka.]] ...which took place in the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, during which prosecutorial proceedings were discussed. And here, I'm gonna refer you too, here were the charges of Barbara Blida's death. And here's the statement. This is what Konrad Kornatowski says: during which the prosecutor's proceedings were discussed, in which the name of former Member of the SLD Barbara Blida was to appear. The witness also described that at the meeting the former Minister of Justice - Attorney General Zbigniew Ziobro and the head of ABW Bogdan Święczkowski presented this case. The witness pointed out that he had also spoken during this meeting and expressed his opinion on the matter. This was also done by a witness present at the meeting of the Minister of Interior and Administration Janusz Kaczmarek. Then Konrad Kornatowski, asked about the reason for the initiation and the course of this meeting, testified: I believe that this meeting was called for this - that is, this topic at the meeting - to obtain legitimacy, i.e. to approve certain actions. Hence the statement, which I have repeatedly quoted, being interrogated or in the prosecutor's office, or by committees both, if I remember Mr Kaczyński's statement well at the moment. And he quotes Jarosław Kaczyński: If you have evidence, do what the law provides in this case. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] So it wasn't an order. [[Yes, sir!]] Next, Mr. Kornatowski says: So it wasn't an order to stop or arrest. It was as if Mr. Ziobro, Święczkowski and Mr. Kaminski, then head of the CBA, presented a certain state of affairs. However, it was not an order: close, shoot - I apologize for such terms. The minutes of the Kornatowski hearing of 11 September 2014 are published in the Official Journal of the European Union. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] [[You're a human man!]] Also asked by the defense attorney... Well, you wanted to...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u505	But I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u506	Also... [[The voice from the room: The truth hurts.]] [[He didn't say to shoot, the human master.]] Also... That's not us, that's what Mr. Kornatowski said, one of your favorites, right? [[I think he was in your government.]] In addition, asked by Jarosław Kaczyński's attorney, whether there were decisions about procedural activities in his presence during these meetings - and this is the answer for one of the Members - the witness testified that Prime Minister Kaczyński did not give any such orders, therefore the decisions in the context in which you asked did not arise. Minutes of the Kornatowski hearing of 11 September 2014 And no comment. [[Applause]] [[So what?]] [[There's no need for comment.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u507	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a request was made to return the report to the committee to complete the procedure. [[It's plowed.]] We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Bond Act (Prints No 1586 and 1599). I ask Mr Wojciech Murdzk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u508	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Bond Act, print No. 1586, and this report is print No. 1599. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finance for first reading on 31 May 2017. The Bond Act already contains appropriate exemptions for the issue of bonds in order to qualify them as components of banks' own funds and investment firms. The provisions of the Bond Act should be supplemented by equivalent exemptions for insurance and reinsurance undertakings. The proposed amendments will allow insurance and reinsurance undertakings concerned to issue subordinated bonds to increase their own funds to cover capital requirements and market development. The project shall include favourable arrangements for insurance and reinsurance undertakings enabling them to issue subordinated bonds with the characteristics set out in the Delegated Regulation. The Public Finance Commission, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 6 June 2017, brings forward: The High Sejm will approve the attached draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u509	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Barbara Bubula, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u510	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on printing No 1586 and the resulting printing of the report of the committee, i.e. against the government draft law amending the law on bonds. The Act concerns a small segment of activities in the field of finance and insurance. As we learned from the presentation of the draft at the committee meeting, only about 160 economic operators are involved. It is a fair level playing field between banks and capital market players, which, in the current rules when issuing subordinated debt in the form of bonds, have the possibility to increase their own funds covering capital requirements and enabling market development. However, insurance and reinsurance undertakings did not have such an authorisation under the Bond Act. The draft law therefore aims to equip insurance and reinsurance undertakings with similar powers. It is therefore an instrument of equalisation of banking and capital market opportunities vis-à-vis the insurance market. These solutions are beneficial for entrepreneurs and in the longer term - as we hope - will also be beneficial for the clients of the insurance market. The Act therefore removes inconsistencies between the provisions of the Act of 11 September 2015 on Insurance and Insurance Activities and the European Directive known under the heading "Solvency II' and the Bond Act. Although the first two legal acts provide the possibility for insurance and reinsurance undertakings to include subordinated liabilities in the form of bonds as own funds, in practice, they have not been able to issue bonds in a manner that meets the requirements laid down in the Delegated Regulation, i.e. the European Commission Regulation 2015/35 of 10 October 2014. The removal of this inconsistencies will give the possibility to issue both subordinated bonds and perpetual bonds. The shortest possible vacathio legis proposed by the government in this law also does not raise any objections, as this is a solution for those interested in this change of legislation. In conclusion, the amendment proposed by the government to the Bond Act constitutes a necessary level playing field, facilitating the pursuit of business in the insurance and reinsurance market, and therefore further evidence of good changes in the rules governing the economy. Law and Justice will vote in favour of the bill proposed by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u511	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Bożena Szydłowska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u512	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform club vis-à-vis the draft law amending the Bond Act, print no. 1586. The government bill amending the Bond Act is dedicated to 162 entities. 161 are insurance undertakings and one is reinsurance undertakings. The project provides for the possibility for these entities to include the issue of bonds in their own funds through the introduction of an appropriate exemption in the Bond Act. The proposed provisions are intended to allow insurance and reinsurance undertakings concerned to issue subordinated bonds to increase their own resources to cover capital requirements and market development of those entities. In the current legal state, insurance and reinsurance undertakings are not in a position to issue subordinated debt in the form of bonds in a manner which at the same time meets the requirements of the Bond Act and the requirements resulting from the provisions for basic own funds laid down in the Delegated Regulation. There is a conflict between EU and national legislation. This is related to the article. 74. 2 The Bond Act, which shows that the redemption does not have an option for the issuer and that the redemption may take place within a shorter period than that reserved by the Delegated Regulation. The same effects on insurance market operators are affected by Article. Article 75 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 2 of the Act on Perpetual Bonds. In order to qualify subordinated or perpetual bonds as fixed assets, insurance and reinsurance undertakings will classify issued bonds in the first basic own funds category or in the second basic own funds category, depending on the conditions of the Delegated Regulation. The proposed shortening of vacathio legis will not have negative effects on insurance and reinsurance undertakings. High Izbo! The above-mentioned specialised establishments are awaiting the elimination of the collision and equal treatment of banking, capital and insurance entities. Therefore, my Civic Platform club is in favour of directing the project to further legislative work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u513	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Paweł Grabowski made his statement in writing. Please, Mr Michał Jaros, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u514	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Poselski Club on the Act amending the law on bonds, prints no. 1586 and 1599. Of course, the aim of the proposed law is to implement Union law, and in fact the purpose of amending the Bond Act is to enable insurance and reinsurance undertakings to issue subordinated bonds with quality features as defined in Delegated Regulation 2015/35 of the European Commission of 10 October 2014 supplementing Directive 2009/138/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the taking up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Modern Club, I support this proposal to amend the law, and I support, among others. because the proposed amendments to the Bond Act will not affect the sector of small, micro and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u515	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u516	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the report of the committee on the government bill amending the law on bonds. The first reading of this project took place yesterday during the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance. The aim of the project is to enable insurance undertakings and reinsurance undertakings to issue subordinated bonds with quality characteristics as defined in the so-called. Delegated Regulation. Introduction, adoption of this project will result in equal treatment of both banking, capital and insurance market operators. The Act will enter into force within a very short period of time, because on the day following the date of the announcement, it concerns a small number of entities who are really waiting for this project. At the same time, I would also like to stress that the draft was adopted unanimously by the Commission. It differs from the original government text only with minor amendments proposed by the Sejm Legislative Office. During the discussion, the members of the committee only expressed their hope that the implementation of this project would not result in an increase in insurance charges. Let's hope so. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will vote in favour of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u517	Thank you, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask a question? No. The discussion is closed... Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Piotr Nowak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u518	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would just like to say a correction, because here my previous speakers used a number, they said that this would apply to 160 entities and, perhaps, 161. I would like to clarify that in total this will apply to 62 entities, 61 insurance undertakings and 1 reinsurance undertaking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u519	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u520	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of Kukiz'15 to print 1586 and 1599, i.e. changes to the bond law. The proposed changes do not raise our greater doubts, because they are about facilitating financing, among others. insurance and reinsurance undertakings. Therefore, given the low controversial nature and technical nature of the amendment, the Kukiz Club15 will recommend to its Members the support of the proposed changes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u521	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 7 June. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? If not, I will close the list of Members who have been made to make statements. The first statement will be made by Mr Aleksander Mr Forczyński, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u522	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 31 May 2017, the first head of the Chojnicki district died after the transformation of Mr Janusz Palmowski. Born September 19, 1958 in Chojnice, he was very much involved in the creation and operation of the Solidarity Election Action, a great advocate of joining the Chojnice region with its seat in Gdansk, the first governor of the Chojnice district after self-government reform. At the beginning of the formation of local governments after the administrative reform, which entered into force in 1999, Janusz Palmowski built the local government in the Chojnicki district. He served as an old man until 2002. From 2002 to 2006 he was a councillor of the Chojnicki District Council. As an elder, he successfully sought the restoration of the hospital in Chojnice, which was given to the residents of the county in 2001. He actively participated in the difficult process of transforming secondary schools into upper secondary schools after the entry into force of the education reform. On the initiative of Janusz Palmowski in 2000, the construction of a new school base for the Special Schools Complex in Chojnice - a school we are still proud of - a modern building with an extensive sports facilities. As an elder, he was very active in road infrastructure. During a difficult time when the county authorities did not have much money, the district roads were renovated. In 1999, he founded the Association of Self-Governments for Modernization of National Roads. As president of the association, he took numerous actions to modernise the roads. He was very active in organizing the first international folklore festivals organized in the Chojnice district and the Kashubian Conventions. A man of great faith. In 1992 he was the initiator of the Association of Catholic Families of the Pelplińska Diocese, in which he served as President until 1999. On his initiative a two-week Catholic weekly was created in the Family published to this day. For many years the magazine was corrected by his wife Irena Palmowska. He also worked in the association of the local Salesian sports organization SALOS in Chojnice, the association which in the spirit of St. Jana Bosko takes up the work of Catholic upbringing children and young people through sport. He was very active in supporting the parish priest of St. The Queen's Jadwiga Fr. Canon Henryk Cyrzan during the construction of the temple and rectory. In 2009 Janusz Palmowski was awarded a medal Deserved for Chojnicki County and the Silver Cross of Merit given by the Blessed Virgin Mary. President of the Republic of Poland Prof. Lech Kaczyński. Janusz Palmowski was a very important figure in Chojnice, a model of father, husband, but above all an honest, hardworking, selfless and devoted community of local government and official. A man of great personal culture, eloquence, knowledge. The Chojnicki County suffered a great loss. Janusz left us way too soon. We had much to learn from him. For many of us, he is an unsurpassed pattern. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u523	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz made a statement in writing. Please, Mrs Teresa Nolas, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u524	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The national interest calls for an increase in duty-free quotas for agricultural products from Ukraine, and this is already slowly becoming a fact. Following the granting of financial assistance and the abolition of visas for Ukrainians, the European Union is working on the implementation of many economic freedoms. Germany is putting a great deal of pressure on these solutions by placing solidarity with Ukraine before the Kiev-Brussels summit in July. It is also a fact that the European Union supports Ukraine at the expense of Polish agriculture, and the European Parliament has agreed to new trade preferences for Ukraine, excluding only wheat, processed tomatoes and urea. But that doesn't mean that in the end it will be. The countries of the European Union have agreed on their preliminary position on Ukraine's preferences, without taking into account a single Polish request. So is there a real disaster for Polish farmers? On the duty-free quota of cereals and rape, Polish farmers are already losing out on the basis of previous EU agreements with Ukraine, and the situation is further complicated by the fact of the Russian embargo and unfair approach to this by some EU countries. In the new arrangements for standardising duty-free imports from Ukraine in addition to maize and cereals, other food products such as groats, vegetables, fruit and honey will also affect EU markets. An open question is asked on the lips: What standards do Ukrainian products meet and what certificates do they have? What limits will be allocated? Where are they gonna go? At whose expense? One thing is certain: most and first Polish farmers will lose, especially those from the eastern part of the country. Competitiveness vis-à-vis producers from the richer countries of the Union will be undermined, although the extent of disparities in subsidies is still an important injustice. The destabilising markets in the neighbouring countries of Ukraine, aid from the European Union to Ukraine, is a disastrous prospect and the chances of changing positions are low. The European Commission and the Council of the European Union on this issue insist too much on the liberalisation of the rules, without even taking into account the above-mentioned exception for wheat, tomatoes or urea. This situation and the threats resulting from it were confirmed by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development Tadeusz Kościński. What will the European Union get out of it? Probably the acquisition by Western private companies of the rest of Ukrainian companies and banks, consent to investments and fertile Ukrainian blacksmiths. How do we know that? Ladies and gentlemen, Polish agriculture is one of the last sectors of the Polish economy. Our ancestors were able to defend the property of the earth, derived from the simple principle of life's management on their own. Thus they fed and defended the nation for generations. Let's stick to it at all costs. This is our independence. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u525	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Jan Mosiński, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u526	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, in my parliamentary statements, I had to address the pressing problem concerning the lowest basic salary of non-medical professionals who are employed in medicinal entities. Medical workers are said a lot, unfortunately almost nothing about the latter. Today, however, something very important happened for me, hence the change of plans. I think that my colleagues from the Independent Self-Solidarity Association will forgive me for this while ensuring, on my part, that I speak on this subject tomorrow. I'm returning to the essence of the case. The change in my plans is caused by today's presence in the Ł Headquarters, i.e. the Łódź Military Cemetery in Powązki in Warsaw. I had this honor and honor to stand in a place that is not only a symbol of the relentless fight against the Stalinist and Communist regime after World War II. I was there together with the honourable Member of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, Deputy Marshal of the Polish Parliament Richard Terletki, Beata Mazurek, Bożena Borys-Szopa and Urszula Rusecka, Waldemar Andzel, Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski and Rafał Weber. This place is a special place. It is a place, a proof of how a man who was disfellowshipped from humanity murdered in order to blur the evidence of his crime. This place is crying today. Accommodation on the Link is a place of anonymous burials of Polish heroes of the Polish underground of independence. Those who were imprisoned and subjected by traitors of Poland to cruel torture were murdered, and their bodies pushed into anonymous graves, which would forever wipe them out of memory. As a result of communist propaganda, or rather Goebbels' propaganda, because the oppressors put themselves in one line with Hitler's oppressors, they tried to convince the public that the victims of communist terror this, I quote their words, spit dwarfs of reaction which were at the service of enemies of the Polish People's Republic and the only penalty is the death penalty. Buryed or thrown into the pits of death, they were to be erased forever. Contrary to communist plans, it was different. Victims from nameless graves became like grains thrown into Polish soil, from which free Poland grew. The Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union (Solidarity) has been established, and in recent years a whole range of organizations that cultivate memory of cursed soldiers, soldiers of activists of the Polish Underground State. Taking advantage of the opportunity to speak before the High House, I would like to appeal to the ladies and gentlemen of the House to make sure that everyone who is close to the heroics and memory of the victims of communist murders finds one day and, as part of his volunteer work, assists in the search for heroic remains of soldiers and civilians who have given their lives so that we can live in a free country. Ł's quarters are waiting for us. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Link's quarters aren't just waiting for us to volunteer. The search and exhumation conducted by the IPN on the Link as well as genetic research restores these heroes of our memory, and Poland regains its heroes. In this respect, I would like to stress that the work carried out by Prof. Szwagrzyk and his team is a great work that deserves recognition and deep respect. However, it also requires support from the state budget. On this point, the Group of Members of the Law and Justice will ask the Minister of Finance to request, because restoring memory, restoring life from the bottom of death needs both our concern and financial support. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Finally, I would like to thank the Shooting Unit 4141 Kalisz of the Shooting Union, the Shooter, in particular the Ensign of the Shooting Union Włodzimierz Kub Staszak, as well as the honourable Miss Małgorzata Klimczuk, Katarzyna Banaszkiewicz, Natalia Sobczak and Oliwa Płotek. These volunteers worked on the Link, where they also gave up honor should be given to the heroes of the Polish underground of independence. It is a wonderful example and confirmation that the young generation of Poles grows in historical truth, respecting and cultivating the memory of those who were to be erased from our memory forever. Hello and praise the heroes! Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-07-sejm-43-1.u527	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. By 8 June 2017, by 3 p.m. 9. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 22 min 52]]
