ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on Adam Andruszkiewicz, Małgorzata Golinska, Wojciech the King and Elizabeth Zielińska to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. Members Adam Andruszkiewicz and Wojciech Król will be in the first part of the session. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Members Adam Andruszkiewicz and Elżbieta Zielińska. I would like to ask that Mrs Monika Wielichowska read the messages in place of the absent Member, whom I very much thank you for taking up this task. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 9, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 9, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 9.30 a.m., - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 10, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 10, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10, - Public Finance - hour. 10, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 10, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 10.30, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Public Finance - hour. 12, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 12, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 12, - Foreign Affairs - hour 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - Economy and Development - h.m. 12.30, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 13, - Legal notice - hour. 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Culture and Media - hour 13.30, - Public Finance - hour. 14, - Culture and means of communication jointly with the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry - h.m. 14, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 2.30 p.m., - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 15, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 15, - Infrastructure - hour 15, - Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 15.20, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 3.30 p.m., - Economics and Development in conjunction with the Committee on Justice and Human Rights - h.m. 16, - Local Government and Regional Policy together with the Committee on Senior Policy - h.m. 16, - Constitutional responsibility - h.m. 4:30 p.m., - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 17, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 5:30. There are also reports of team meetings. Today, the following parliamentary teams will be held: - Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team - hour 9, - Parliamentary Group for: Defence of Polish Self-Government - h. 10, - Joint meeting of the Parliamentary Group of Members and Sympathists of the Light-Life Movement, Catholic Action and the Association of Catholic Families, the Parliamentary Group for the Catholic Social Science, the Parliamentary Group for Pro-Family Policy and Culture and the Parliamentary Group for the Rights of Life - hours. 10, - Parliamentary Team for the Rights of Life - h.m. 10.30, - Parliamentary Group for: Follow-up to Human and Citizen Rights Follow-up - h.m. 11, - Parliamentary Team for the introduction of Unimandate Election Districts - h.m. 12.30, - Parliamentary Group for: Inland navigation - h.m. 13, - Parliamentary Group for: diabetes mellitus - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Oncology - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 5:30 p.m., - Parliamentary Group for: solving problems of the inhabitants of Poland and Poland - h. 18. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u3	Thank you very much, Madam President. High Izbo! The Council of Ministers submitted a draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Act for 2017. The design is 2045. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to complete the agenda by a point covering the first reading of the project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Waste Act. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on the positions of the Senate on the laws: - amending the Road Traffic Law Act and certain other laws, - on the amendment of the Act on repatriation, the Act on the Polish Charter and the Act on foreigners, - amending the Law on the Protection of Mental Health and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed in no. 2015, 2026 and 2028 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items on the agenda listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the position of the Senate on the Act on Tourism Events and Related Tourism Services. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. High Izbo! Okay, well, let's get to the questions. The first question will be asked by Members Jerzy Gosiewiski and Adam Oldakowski, Parliamentary Law and Justice Club. The question is about the government's efforts to increase development opportunities for the region of Warmia and Mazury, where unemployment is currently highest, and is addressed to the Minister for Development. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Minister Andżelika Możjanowska, will answer. Please, Mr Gosiewiski is the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u4	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, The country is developing, and it is very happy, but the two-digit unemployment is still in Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship. The drastic lack of infrastructure and companies that are not harmful to the environment, the need to further halt local border traffic, small population, and at the same time border location - all this makes the living standards of residents in the region of Warmia and Mazury different from the living standards of residents of other regions of the country. Every citizen of the region of Warmia and Mazury should have the same rights as another resident of other regions of the country. It would therefore be advisable, in our opinion, to take decisive measures that would allow the growth of Polish companies, which would not be harmful to the environment. Such companies are certainly not extremely harmful to the environment large-scale poultry farms or, for example, large-scale poultry farms. built by Romanians so-called. Ecger wood industry plants, which will de facto be an unsecured waste incineration plant that emits hundreds of tons of poisonous substances into the environment. Minister! What does the government intend to do to increase the chance of development for the region of Warmia and Mazury, where unemployment is currently very high? I would ask Mr Oldakowski to complete the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u5	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I come from the border district, it is about the area of Bartoszyc, Braniewa, Ketrzyn, where unemployment reaches more than 20%. Does the government have any purpose? What is the point of unemployment in these counties being as small as possible? It's a tragedy for our counties where people [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's hard to find a job, and if they find it, it's a very low level of pay. Therefore, please answer my question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u6	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I ask you to answer the question of Minister Andzelika Możjanovska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u7	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Dear High Izbo! Indeed, the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodeship belongs to Eastern Poland and occupies a special place in the Responsible Development Strategy and innovative economic growth will foster the implementation of the Responsible Development Strategy. These lines of government strategy and policy are in line with those introduced consistently to improve the legal conditions of business: the adopted package of 100 changes for companies and the implementing constitution for business, which will be adopted by the High House and which will meet the expectations of economic growth, but above all the commitment of entrepreneurship. Since 2004, development dissonance has significantly decreased in relation to the European Union. Nevertheless, the voivodship Eastern Poland remains at the centre of interest in terms of government solutions and support, therefore the main objectives in Eastern Poland remain: improving both the investment attractiveness of the entire macro-region, increasing the competitiveness of regional economies and the long-term stimulation of economic activity, especially in areas where development processes take place slower. In answer to the question of the Members of the Government to reduce unemployment and increase development opportunities for the region of Warmia and Mazury, attention should be paid first to the ongoing projects financed by both national, regional, local and EU funds made available under European Union policy. Maybe I'll trade it. Increasing access to capital and financial support within the Union is currently being achieved, inter alia. by the Eastern Poland Operational Programme, the European Structural and Investment Funds, the Research and Innovation Financing Programme Horizon 2020, the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme, the support programme for the cultural, audiovisual and creative sectors of Creative Europe, the broad range of financial and non-financial services provided to companies by the Polish Development Fund. As part of the Operational Programme, Eastern Poland, funds for the development of innovative entrepreneurship, the expansion of green urban transport systems, roads and railways are currently being implemented in the region of Warmia and Mazury 84 projects worth more than PLN 680 million, the allocation to the regional operational programme of Warmia and Mazury up to now amounts to EUR 1728 million. By 9 November 2017, more than 3,000 were submitted. applications for funding for the total amount of over PLN 6 billion. Indeed, when we ask entrepreneurs what they think are the biggest barriers to development, they usually point to these three elements: adequate infrastructure - that is 55.7% indications, access to capital and financial support - more than 45% and appropriate investments in the region - that is 41 indications. Therefore, the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Development undertake both general actions aimed at improving the development opportunities of the Warmia and Mazury region and at reducing the barriers that are most often indicated by entrepreneurs. In order to reduce the gaps in the relevant infrastructure identified in the research, I will give examples of what is already being done. Among others, new sections of the S7 expressway were given: in December 2016 the Miłomłyn section - Ostróda-Północ and in June Nidzica - Napierki. There are three further multi-billion-dollar investments under way. Relevant investments are planned and implemented in the region, among others. by: Heinz Glas - it is nearly PLN 100 million for the extension of the glassworks in Działdów, the company Furniture Wójcik - at least PLN 50 million for the construction of the production and warehouse and logistics hall, another PLN 50 million was declared for the extension of the plant in Dobrze Miasto, the company Szynaka Furniture has 22 million for the construction of a new warehouse in the area of the zone in Iława. These investments that are planned in the region, in the area of Warmia and Mazury are very many. The number of investment permits issued by the Warmia-Mazury Economic Zone has also been increased in an incomparable way with the previous periods. In 2016 alone, the number of issues was doubled... on average in the years 1997-2016 was... In the first 10 months of this year 34 permits were issued, i.e. almost 5 times more than on average between 1997 and 2016. What is important, mostly, because in the case of 27 permits for 34 permits issued, projects carried out by companies with Polish capital. In addition, the declared investment expenditures in the special zone are increasing. Last year investors planned projects worth a total of PLN 167 million, and only in the first 10 months of this year they increased more than ten times, already exceeding PLN 1.7 billion. Entrepreneurship is one of the key concepts for government and Ministry of Development's strategies and these activities will also be made possible by the Ministry of Development's proposed new shape of investment support through the possibility of receiving income tax exemption. The entrepreneur will be able to apply for exemption from income tax in any area where business can be carried out, so that the long-term and burdensome process of changes in the borders of special economic zones will be eliminated. I think that these solutions will be a huge challenge, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which will introduce a constitution for business, i.e. relief for companies and non-registered activities. These assumptions are within the scope of five laws and 200 amendments to the laws, which are the consequence of the implementation of five major economic laws. Dear Members, If you want to, if that is the case, it is such a directional change - because it is difficult to define during these few minutes the actions that are being taken by the Ministry of Development - and the government's strategy on the challenges that are aimed at the development of Warmia and Mazury, a detailed coverage of the areas we can send in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u8	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask you an additional question by Mr Jerzy Gosievski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u9	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, All the infrastructure investments that you mentioned relate to the connection between the capital and Gdansk. There are no infrastructure investments in the border region, in the region of Warmia and Mazury. There are companies on our territory that cannot grow because they have no conditions for development, which I discussed earlier. We request urgent support by enabling companies that employ Poles to invest and will not be burdensome to people or harmful to the environment of the land of great lakes called the seventh wonder of nature. In our view, it would be advisable to invite large companies, automobiles or electronic equipment manufacturers to invest in our region, operating modernly and with little risk to the environment. Minister! How the government intends to help Polish companies that already work on our territory [[♪ The bell ♪]] and employ Polish employees, as well as imported companies, which will employ the inhabitants of this region and at the same time will be environmentally friendly Warmia and Mazury? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u10	Thank you. Please respond to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u11	(PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, As far as all these assumptions are concerned, it is possible to use support for Polish entrepreneurship primarily in terms of investment development. We encourage you to use support instruments. I also encourage you to take part in a conference that will be held at the Ministry of Development. This conference, prepared for the entire business sector, will focus on support for business, national support instruments: non-refundable and returnable ones. I pass on this invitation to all entrepreneurs from Warmia and Mazury through the Members. Support elements are a wide range of possibilities to use. It will also be a new opening if we adopt a package of laws, the changes contained in the constitution for business, which opens the Polish idea of entrepreneurship, it is about making it easier, above all, to remove administrative barriers, to increase economic potential, to increase economic potential, to make it easier for entrepreneurs. The entrepreneur is to be a partner in local government, government administration, and is to be a person who will be supported by all the solutions proposed by both the government and the Ministry of Development, which are established in the Responsible Development Strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u12	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Member of the Commission: Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak, Mrs Iwona Michałek and Mr Michał Cieślak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, ask a question about the situation of older people in social assistance facilities. The question is addressed to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Elżbieta Bojanowska will answer. Please, Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak is the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u13	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! The population of the elderly is growing in Poland. The need for 24/7 care services will increase. Demographic projections indicate a systematic increase in the population aged 60 and over. In 2050, people aged 60 and more living in cities will account for 23.5% the general population of the country, while the villagers of this age - 16.8%. From 2026 onwards, a dynamic increase in the number of people aged 80 and over will begin. In addition, there is an increase in the life expectancy of the population, which is uneven with regard to women and men - women live longer - which in turn will result in an increase in the number of seniors living alone. With life expectancy, there is an increased risk of limiting the ability to perform daily activities, thus increasing the risk of independence. The isolation and loneliness of older people can speed up this risk. In Poland, the number of private social services homes and in particular 24-hour care facilities is growing. Sadly, some of them had many irregularities and violations of the rights of those living there. Therefore, the State should ensure that the safety of the most vulnerable, needing support, 24/7 care and decent living conditions in such facilities are already ensured today. I would therefore like to ask: What changes are planned to be made to the operation of social assistance homes and 24-hour care facilities for persons with disabilities, chronically ill or elderly?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u14	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u15	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In view of demographic forecasts regarding the situation of our population and the change in the structure of the population, i.e. the increase in the number of older people, we want to ensure security and proper care both in social assistance homes and around the clock. Therefore, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy has prepared an amendment to both the Social Assistance Act and the Mental Health Act. These proposals have now gone to the inter-ministerial consultation stage. These changes aim primarily, first, to improve the safety and conditions of stay of elderly and disabled persons in legally operating facilities providing 24-hour care, second, to reduce the scale of irregularities in 24-hour care facilities and to improve the effectiveness of sanctions imposed on operators without authorisation and thirdly, to facilitate establishments, especially those carried out to a small extent, to obtain authorisation by relaxing certain standards. I will move on to the issue of improving the safety and living conditions of the elderly and the disabled, who are staying in legally - I would like to stress - legally operating facilities that provide 24/7 care. The Ministry has prepared rules governing the admission and residence of persons with mental disorders and the leaving of 24-hour care facilities by such persons, which are similar to the existing arrangements for social assistance homes, providing for the reliance of admission to such facilities only after the court has granted the authorisation and after they have undergone periodic mental health tests to justify their further stay in the institution. In addition, rules for the application of direct coercion in institutions have been laid down by reference to the rules governing the application of direct coercion also in social assistance homes. These proposed provisions provide for the supervision of courts 24/7 on the legality of the admission and residence of persons with mental disorders, the observance of their rights and the control of the conditions under which they reside by reference to the Act on the Protection of Mental Health contained in the draft. In order to improve the conditions of stay, it is designed to reduce the number of places in 24-hour care facilities to 100, as well as to introduce qualification requirements for care providers and the employment rate of staff in these facilities, as the lack of such requirements at present makes care for residents of 24-hour care facilities often run by random persons, without basic knowledge in this area. In addition, the proposed provisions provide for a ban on the admission of minors to 24-hour care facilities, and such cases have also occurred in Poland, given the special protection of children's rights resulting from the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. It is the responsibility of the State to provide care for children without it and for this purpose institutions have been set up, such as foster care facilities or social assistance homes for children and young people with intellectual disabilities. Second thought. In terms of reducing the scale of irregularities in institutions that provide 24-hour care and improving the effectiveness of sanctions imposed on entities operating institutions without authorisation, they were legally operating there, and here we are talking about those illegally operating - the draft law contains provisions on extending the scope of control powers of inspectors of voivodship offices. It is expected that these operators will be more responsible without authorisation than one institution by increasing the amount of penalties imposed from 10 000. Or 20,000. Up to 40,000. In addition, it is designed to limit the possibility of obtaining authorisation to operate such an establishment by entities which the voivode has imposed in the past at least twice the penalty for running an establishment without authorisation or to suspend the operation of such an establishment. In addition, the draft amendment will allow the voivodeship to withdraw the permit to operate the facility at the same time if it is found to be life-threatening or health-threatening, and to order the institution to cease its operation with the decision of the rigour of immediate feasibility. This may be the case if a risk of life or health is found to be present in the facility, even if the facility is authorised. Until now, the possibility of ordering the activity to cease was for illegal establishments. We're changing that today, too. Thus, the governor had to first issue a decision withdrawing the permit, and only after it was legalized could he order the illegal activity of that institution to be suspended. All these changes are designed to improve safety and provide adequate care for older people, but also to ensure a sense of security for families who direct them to these facilities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u16	Thank you very much, Minister. Please ask for an additional question. Mrs Iwona Michalek, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u17	Minister! Mr. Marshal! Minister, what you have presented to us here, these planned changes, seem to be very expected by the elderly and their families. Frankly, I see more and more elderly people around me, very, very lonely, abandoned by the family. And that's where you said that you're limiting the number of people in the help homes to 100, to a maximum of 100, right? I would like to ask whether this will limit access for others, all those in need to such facilities and how what you are proposing, these changes will really improve the situation of these older people.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u18	Thank you. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u19	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Today, we already have a maximum limit of 100 seats in the existing regulations for social services homes. We have this upper limit, which is similar to what is out there, that we are introducing 24/7 care for the elderly and the disabled, so that these conditions are as good as possible. And so 100 people are a lot of people when it comes to being there. I would also like to say that the number of such facilities is increasing systematically, because in 2015 we collected data, that was 358, in 2016 - 399, and in 2017 - data at the beginning of November - 434. What do these recipes give you? First of all, they give the voivodships tools to act, in terms of the institutions that operate, first, illegally, i.e. the voivodships and their services can act immediately, and secondly, we increase security by introducing certain standards, including standards of employment in regular care facilities operating legally. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u20	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Monika Wielichowska and Krystyna Sibińska, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will ask a question about the progress of the Independence March on 11 November 2017. It is addressed to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. Minister Jarosław Zieliński will answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. Please, as the first question asked by Mrs Monika Wielichowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! November 11th this year The so-called "Warsaw" took place in Warsaw. The Independence March. The March in the Assessment of Law and Justice Politicians was a family event, sympathetic and far from any extreme. Oh, so-called. The Independence March informed the media from all over the world, and unfortunately these were not reports that we could be proud of. In the world there was information about nationalist marches, racist and xenophobic slogans, calling for the dominance of the white race and allowing all of them to rule. And all this was happening in a city that was severely affected by fascism. On the one hand, the so-called. The Independence March took place under the motto "We want God," on the other hand the march participants carried banners that break the law, with the inscriptions "White Europe," "Pray for the Islamic Holocaust," "Death to the enemies of the homeland." There were also visible signs of the Celtic cross, neofascist symbols, and chanted shouts, full of hatred and aggression, were fueled by forbidden flares. No police response, no government response, no vote of condemnation from Prime Minister Szydło or Minister Błaszczak is your consent to fascism, it's your consent to xenophobia, it's your consent to anti-Semitism and racial separation. And permission, ladies and gentlemen, is a shared responsibility. Once a constitutional breaker was accused, today they're being modeled. Participants of the march, that in Warsaw, but also that in Wrocław, also showed incredible aggression towards women. So-called. The Independence March has the privilege as a cyclical one, so I would like to ask if this cyclicality will be abolished by the Minister, because the march was conducted in a manner that disgraces Poland, disgraces Poles and insults the memory of the insurgents. But Minister Błaszczak says it was safe, that it was peaceful and that it was a beautiful march. Why didn't the police respond to racist, xenophobic, fascist slogans, the same banners? Why didn't the police react to flares that aren't allowed? Why didn't the police respond to female aggression? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And all those who, instead of the police, protested against breaking the law? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u22	Thank you. I ask the Minister to respond. [[Without an umbrella and a confetti?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u23	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In the years of the PO-PSL coalition government... [[Talk about marching.]] ... The Independence March was treated by that authority as something... [[We ask about 11 November 2017.]] [[This Regulation ……]] Are you ladies going to listen, or are you going to talk now? Because Mr. Marshal... [[Speech outside the microphone]] The marshal gave me the floor, so I will speak now, and you will listen. You've already told me, and I'm answering your question. [[I asked a specific question about a specific march.]] All right. So during the Platform and PSL rule, the Independence March was treated as something hostile. At that time, you tried to qualify the assemblies for the anniversary of Poland's regaining independence for some supposedly fascist or neofascist demonstrations. There were provocations, which caused that there were riots each time, there were various kinds of incidents, which symbolizes, the most shameful, the burning of a guard booth under the Russian embassy. [[Applause]] This case is still under investigation by the D.A.'s office, and it hasn't been cleared yet. [[Come on, Minister, this is a shame.]] I hope this case will be settled someday. [[You haven't explained it yet?]] You were leading a riot at the time because you wanted political demand... [[Voice from the room: Answer the questions!]] ...because of your political needs... [[Speech outside the microphone]] [[Voice from the room: Patience!]] What's with the nerves? Look, this is the truth. Listen to the truth about your time. [[But I asked you specific questions, you don't answer.]] The police for political demand, politically motivated by you, were making various kinds of provocations. And now that it's been... For two years these marches have been held in peace and dignity. [[Because the police aren't responding to breaking the law.]] It's all happening... Mr. Marshal, is there anything you can do to help me? Because this lady is screaming so much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u24	I'll do my best, Minister. Mrs Monica Wielichowska please... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Or maybe you should add me a little bit more time, 'cause I'm... I'll add it up, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Well, maybe I shouldn't react, but... [[Marshal, please help me.]] You're welcome, my fellow Member. Minister, please. [[Mr. Marshal, help me.]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Okay, maybe I shouldn't react. The Member bears witness to himself, and maybe I will just stop hearing it. So, ladies and gentlemen, for the past two years, everything has been done with seriousness and peace. There's no riot because there's no provocation. [[Sure.]] [[Because the police aren't responding to breaking the law.]] And everyone's safe because the police can keep it safe. As far as this last Independence March is concerned, he was also in peace and everyone was safe. On the other hand, if you wish to sit in such a role as to have a minister or police censor every banner carried and respond immediately to the content of this banner, it is a very dangerous expectation. Consider this, because various marches are held, with different political colors, different passwords are carried with different content, and I will come back to that, and I will show you what this could end with. We don't accept that role and we don't accept it. [[White Europe is not some sort of banner.]] The police, on the other hand, will always ensure safety and respond to any kind of violation of the law. Now some information about this march and all the events on November 11th. During the meetings preceding the assembly - and this assembly - the organizers were informed by the Police about the obligation to carry out these meetings in accordance with law, including the prohibition to promote passwords that would violate the Polish legal order. [[So what?]] Regardless of the above, this obligation was also recalled to the organisers immediately prior to the start of the assembly. We all know that according to the article. 256 § 1 and 2 of the Penal Code public promotion of the fascist or other totalitarian system of the state or provocation to hate against national, ethnic, racial, religious differences or due to non-denialism, as well as inter alia. the possession and presentation of objects containing such contents or which are carriers of fascist, communist or other totalitarian symbolism constitutes a criminal offence liable to fines, penalties for restrictions on liberty or imprisonment up to the age of 2. Immediately after the completion of the police operation on 11 November at the Police Headquarters, steps were taken to secure video footage and any other information on the content of banners and on the behaviour of participants in the march that might exhaust the signs of crimes, including the incident on the Poniatowski Bridge involving several or a dozen - it will still be determined - protesters against the march of women. As a result of the analysis carried out so far of the provisions concerning the Independence March, five banners with passwords liable to violate the Polish legal order were revealed. There were many banners. The march, as the police reported, gathered about 60,000. participants, so five banners, even though they need to be responded to, I will tell you what the response of Polish institutions is... [[We heard Minister Błaszczak.]] ... The police and prosecutors' office, however, is a margin and it is not allowed to spread such harmful to Poland in the world - and you are involved in this - an image that Poland is a country of reborn neophasism. You harm Poland in this way, you harm Poland. Don't do this. [[Applause]] [[Your permission is a shared responsibility.]] Don't do this because this painting is spreading with you. You're hurting Poland, you're hurting yourself. [[Voice from the hall: You harm the Polish Police with umbrellas.]] However, it must be questioned whether, at such gatherings, at the time of such gatherings, at the site of the event, the content of each banner can be clearly assessed by the police as violating the law. [[If there was anything about the president, you'd be breaking up on your own.]] It has to be done after a calm analysis, and yet not by the police, but by the D.A.'s office. The materials collected in this case have been transferred to [[♪ The bell ♪]] District Attorney Warsaw-Downtown - Mr. Marshal, you will allow us to extend a little longer, because you were very aggressive - in order to evaluate criminal law already on 13 November, so on Monday. The march took place on Saturday, 11 November. [[You're not afraid, are you?]] The prosecution opened an investigation into the public promotion of the fascist or other totalitarian state system and public provocation to hate against racial, ethnic and religious differences by participants of the Independence March in Warsaw on 11 November, on the action of the article. 256 § 1 of the Criminal Code. This investigation was entrusted to the Department of Investigation and Investigation of the Police Department. Let me remind you, in comparison, that in your governments, in 2012, and this is not the only case, but I will give you this example in contrast, so that you can calm down a little bit and reflect on your views in this Chamber, your opinions expressed here and in Europe. So in 2012, during the assembly organized by the SLD and the OPZZ were carried banners with symbolism, with a sickle and a hammer, and this was not the only case during such leftist or leftist demonstrations, and the police then also handed over the materials to the prosecution. But what did the D.A.'s office do, your D.A.'s office do? She refused to initiate proceedings in this regard. Compare it. At the same time, I would like to inform you that, regardless of the preparatory procedure I have mentioned, the units under the Police Command are also conducting other proceedings. I'll trade them briefly. First, two investigations pursuant to Article. 52 § 1 of the Code of Offences - violation of the convention regulations for the possession of pyrotechnics by persons taking part in the Independence March. That was the question. Second, the investigation into offences under Article. 52 Code of Offences against 43 people brought from the Wisłocki square in Warsaw... [[Mr. Marshal, can you steal that umbrella over the minister yet?]] Excuse me, Minister. Minister, I'm so sorry. I draw Mr Nitras' attention. Mr Sławomir Nitras, there are young people in the gallery. [[We weren't that aggressive.]] [[Voice from the room: Time!]] I know. You informed the High House yesterday that you had a problem. I can't help you with that, but I ask you very much to maintain your cultural attitude, especially since there are young people in the gallery. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] You're welcome, Minister. [[Don't bother.]] [[But it's time.]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: The uncultural or even rude behaviour of Mr Nitras is known to all. [[Don't bother.]] Independently of the infringement proceedings, two of these 43 persons were detained in the course of the preparatory procedure in the direction of the Article. 256 Penal Code - promoting fascism or totalitarianism. These are people who, during the incident, held a banner that could promote fascist ideology. [[You're embarrassed to be Marshal of the Sejm.]] They were questioned as a witness in accordance with the provisions of the Article. 183 Code of Criminal Procedure. Subsequently, the preparatory investigation into Article. 158 § 1 Penal Code - participation in a fight or a beating, in the case of a beating. The proceeding was initiated on the basis of a notification submitted by the opponent of the Independence March. Fourth, Preparatory investigation of Article. 288 of the Penal Code - damage to property in the case of glass breaking in the apartment by the route of the march. Fifth, examination procedure under Article. 217 Penal Code - violation of personal, physical immunity. [[Now, if you'll excuse me, the confetti won't fly.]] [[The voice from the hall: You wanted an explanation, you got it!]] [[But I didn't ask that at all!]] The activities shall be conducted in private complaint mode on the basis of the notification of the victim. Sixth, Preparatory proceedings with Article. 226 Penal Code - an insult to a public servant initiated on the basis of a police officer's notice. The perpetrator was apprehended immediately after the crime was committed. Following the statement of the plea, he voluntarily submitted to the penalty. The seventh incident that took place on the Poniatowski Bridge concerning the blocking of the Independence March by a group of women and then the violation of bodily immunity. [[Women are blocking the Independence March...]] Until now, no notice has been received from the victims in this case. After disclosure, video footage was sent to the prosecution for legal review. The eighth, in parallel to the women referred to in point 7, shall be carried out in accordance with Article. 52 § 2 point 1 of the Code of Offences - attempt to prevent the organisation or conduct of an unprohibited assembly. Nine women were involved. At the moment, none of them have been questioned as the perpetrator of the offence, and the action is in progress. I brought it up to show what the police's reaction is, the D.A.'s office. The assembly of November 11th, once again, was safe. The police have done their job properly, and now the prosecution's legal review is being carried out. On the other hand, dissemination - I will repeat this once again - of opinions in the world that Poland is a country where neofascism is reborn, because of five banners it is a disgraceful action on your part. [[Applause]] [[Margin of margins, as Błaszczak says.]] Thank you, Minister. At the same time, I apologise to the Minister for having to answer these questions under such conditions. [[Marshal Brudziński is an oxymoron.]] [[What are you apologizing for, Marshal?]] [[Voice from the room: For lack of an umbrella.]] I would ask you to ask an additional question to Mrs Krystyna Sibinska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u25	From the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u26	Of course. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u27	Great. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Father Tischner said there's a saint's record, even prowda and g... prowda. I have the impression that your statement qualifies for this third category, unfortunately. [[Applause]] I'm so sorry. And I'm sorry, Marshal, that you allow young people to listen to such nonsense and such statements. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Nitras, yes.]] It's just disgraceful. It's really disgraceful. And I don't even want to ask because you're just gonna walk out and talk all over again. This statement of yours shows that the government justifies these actions, that first you praised it, that it was a fantastic event, and now the government justifies it. I would only ask one question: How was Officer Kulson rewarded? I think it's an interest in society, because it's really very interesting. And question two. Do you always walk around with that kind of guard? Why did you bring so many cops? [[Exactly. One - umbrella, the other - keys to the apartment, the third - newspaper.]] I had the impression that they would come and tell us what action they had taken against those who preached such shameful slogans, who protected such an umbrella. And last but not least, will you delegalize ONR? Because it's just about time you took this kind of action. Shame. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u28	Thank you. [[Answer me why you need four cops.]] I ask Mr Nitras to calm his emotions. [[You can't ask me for anything, you've lost your ability to honor.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u29	I'll answer again, Marshal, now less. Mr Nitras' rudeness is known and intense. [[Sir, why are you here with four cops?]] I'm afraid I can't... [[The keys behind you?]] Shut up. You're acting out of line. [[Voice out of the room: Throw it out.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u30	Excuse me, Minister. Mr President, I would like to point out to you that you are interfering with the Parliament's deliberations. I would like to address Mr... [[You're the one causing the situation.]] I address Mr Nitras. [[You're the one who's making things worse.]] Mr President, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I call you to order. You're welcome, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Unfortunately, I cannot meet the expectations of Members of the Civic Platform and admit that the nonsense they tell is true because they are simply a lie, they are not true. The Polish state reacts, which I have presented very clearly. [[Voice from the room: We saw it on the march.]] There are proceedings in the cases you're asking about. The contrast between our governments and yours is that you provoked and we provide security. [[Applause]] [[And you're wearing an umbrella.]] We're responding to breaking the law. The D.A. and the police... [[Minister, there will be no confetti on you.]] ...do their job the right way. You can't have five banners... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: We saw what was happening at the police station in Wrocław.]] Mr. Marshal, I think we'll have to punish Mr. Nitras. Think about it. [[♪ Move, joy in the hall ♪]] [[You're sick, man.]] Because he's just interfering. But it's not my job, it's your marshal's. [[But we're not afraid of your punishments.]] Minister, continue. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: So I can't go along with yours either, because they're just fake, they're fake. [[But what about Kulson? I was asking about Kulson.]] In a shameful way - in a shameful way, once again I will emphasize it strongly - you present a false image of Poland, I no longer speak to the government, because you want it, but also to the whole Poland. But the march was, and please, I don't think you've seen these paintings... [[We saw it right.]] [[Minister Błaszczak said he didn't see anything.]] ...the march was a manifestation of patriotism, and that there were slogans that maybe were provocations... [[Voice from the room: Front row provocative.]] ...maybe they were an action that will be evaluated after all... [[You work with them, you're provocative.]] I'm sorry. I would also like to ask Mr Kierwinski to give an answer to Minister Zieliński. [[But, Marshal, please...]] I would very much like to ask you before I reach for the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. [[But I was asking about Kulson.]] [[Answer the questions, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Mr. Marshal, the Minister isn't answering any questions.]] You're welcome, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Well, then you can judge that, but don't yell. Ladies and gentlemen, no one in Poland justifies - and certainly not the government, certainly not the Government of Law and Justice, certainly not me or any of the ministers - the violation of the law. I'm sure no one approve of passwords that violate the law. No one accepts this because it is incompatible with the Polish tradition, it is incompatible with our ideas about the standards of the modern state, a country which is to be a tolerant state, a country that is friendly to everyone. No one justifies racism, xenophobia, anti-Semitism. These are actions that must be condemned and condemned. Legal evaluation activities are also being carried out. What else do you want? What else do you want? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[What's with the four cops?]] [[Voice from the hall: Don't say it was a beautiful march.]] It was a beautiful march. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] It was a beautiful patriotic march involving families, families with children, and many young people. And this painting, please don't... [[Minister, I asked you what happened to Kulson.]] Don't deny it because it's the truth. And the margin of margins that has occurred will be assessed in terms of criminal law, and is condemned morally and politically, of course. [[Applause]] [[That's not a margin margin. You give permission and you're co-responsible.]] Thank you very much, Minister. I hope that another question will be asked this time by Ewa Lieder, Krzysztof Truskolaska, Katarzyna... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I'm sorry. I'm sorry, High House. Members Bartosz Józwiak, Tomasz Romankowski and Józef Brynkus, Kukiz club15, on the financing of home education in 2018. The question is addressed to the Minister of National Education and will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Minister Maciej Kopeć. Please, Mr Bartosz Józwiak is the first question to be asked. [[But why the four cops?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u31	Mr Nitras, will you bother me, or will you let me ask you a question? [[As you wish.]] Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The issue that we are concerned about is the financing of home education. Firstly, we are concerned about the reduction in the amount provided for in the financing of domestic education and, secondly, about the way in which these issues are dealt with. This is essentially a matter of more than 13 thousand. children, a pretty large group of citizens. Meanwhile, the way in which home education is financed is highly unstable. For two years in a row, the situation in which the rate for home education was entered in the draft regulation and later, on 22 December, turned out to be different. This matter was also discussed at a conference on domestic education, organized by us on 21 November here in the Sejm. This topic was discussed by parents, school heads, people associated with home education, including members of the team who worked at the Ministry. Therefore, I have really four short questions to begin with. First: What will the financing of home education be like in 2018, possibly in the following years? Is it possible to establish a more stable way of financing domestic education? Why work on the financing of home education is carried out without directly interested persons, i.e. schools and families related to domestic education, and is it possible to change in this area so that they can directly participate in the determination of financial elements directly related to them? Fourth: Is the calculation presented during the work of the Working Group on the home education I mentioned was presented during the meetings of the Joint Government and Local Government Commission? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u32	Thank you very much, sir. I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As regards domestic education, in 2016, the allocation algorithm introduced changes in funding for pupils who perform a school obligation or study outside the school in the so-called. home education. The amount of the subsidy for such a pupil from 2016 amounts to approximately 0,6 of the amount of the subsidy charged to other pupils. The reasonableness of this change is due to the much lower cost of teaching pupils who fulfil their schooling obligations outside school. Schools bear only small costs related to their classification and costs related to the provision of additional activities. Therefore, there is no justification for financing pupils who fulfil their school obligation outside the school of the amount of the subsidy allocated to pupils in school. The funds charged to pupils in home education go to local governments. The amount of funds transferred to schools for this purpose in the case of local schools depends on the decision of the local government, while in the case of subsidised schools it is determined in accordance with the provisions of the Education Act. The distribution of educational subsidies is largely made in connection with the costs of carrying out educational tasks, which is why educational subsidies charged to pupils in home education are intended to cover the educational costs of these pupils incurred by schools. There has never been such an assumption that the measures in question should be passed on to parents either directly or indirectly. The primary function of the education part of the general subsidy is the financial support of local self-government units in order to shape their income at a level appropriate to the dimension of educational tasks. The Law of 14 December 2016 amended the Education Law on the fulfilment of the school or study obligation outside the school in the so-called. home education. The changes entered into force on 1 September 2017 and consist of: the authorisation of such a form of education only by a director in the territory of the voivodship where the child resides, the need to have a public opinion on psychological and pedagogical counseling, the extension of the scope of support for children in domestic education by indicating the right of children to benefit from teaching assistance for the implementation of the curriculum base in school resources and the right to consultation to prepare for annual grading examinations. These changes aim to improve the conditions for training children in domestic education. An analysis of the level of funding for pupils in home education will be carried out once the above entry into force. changes in the implementation of the school obligation, the obligation to study outside the school. The Ministry of National Education will monitor this situation. As regards 2018, the method and level of funding for pupils in home education will remain the same as in the current year. In addition, the Law on the financing of educational tasks states that as from 2018 the grant from the budget of the local government unit is not payable to pupils carrying out annual pre-school preparation outside the pre-school institution. This solution is due to the fact that, unlike schools, in the case of kindergartens, the educational law does not provide for the tasks of kindergarten for a home-educated pupil. I just want to remind you that art. 35 Education law speaks of school duty, another, art. 36, clarifies this obligation, while education itself, so-called. Domestic education is defined in Article. 37 Educational Laws. And in the case of a student who does his duty outside the school, it is clear that what he has to do is a question of grading exams. For a number of months, a team composed of representatives of the Minister of National Education, parents and schools for which domestic education is taking place has carried out very detailed calculations of the costs we are talking about. For a reminder, earlier this amount was 1.0, which is just like the student in the institution where the classes are held, the class work in which we have teachers conducting these classes every day. As far as this change is concerned, it was due to the need to look at the cost of home education. As far as the work of this team is concerned, a great deal of time has been spent on how much the classification exam actually costs, how much time at which level, at which educational stage should be spent on such an examination. As far as the Ministry of National Education is concerned, the demands of representatives of domestic education have been taken into account, in other words, an extended catalogue of those rights which were granted to such a student. In other words, it is an opportunity to consult before classification exams and also to benefit from aid for the implementation of the programme base. On the other hand, all these decisions we are talking about have been consulted. We can say that local government units do not share the view that this amount is 0.6. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They think it's much smaller.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u34	Thank you, sir. You're done, aren't you? Please, Mr Bartosz Józwiak will also ask an additional question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u35	Minister! I understand that these issues were raised in discussions with this team, but that as a result they really talked about the fact that a return to the amount of 1.0 is possible and even justified. The Minister accepted it at the time. Then there was an amount of 0.8. It was only at the very end that the amount of 0.6 was restored. In my opinion, an increase in this amount will be very important because the Minister himself says that schools will have more tasks, and this will also greatly increase the financial contribution of the school. I have one more question. The Ministry announced at the beginning of 2018 a change in the general model for the calculation of school subsidies. With the new model, the grant to the local government - and consequently the grant to the non-public school - would not depend only on the number of students but also on the number of branches in the school. The Ministry then postponed work on this for the next year of financing. Is the Ministry planning further changes in the model of calculation of subsidies? If so, at what stage are these works and since when would the changes come into force? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one final question: What will the financing of home education be like in this situation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u36	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u37	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As with all legal acts, this applies to both the law and the regulation, i.e. the regulation which concerns educational subsidies, they are consulted and at the same time subject to assessment of the team and committee of the common government and the local government. As I said, there were differences in the actual cost of home education. On the one hand, ongoing work aimed at identifying what would be in the course of these activities, the consultations that the student would be able to use, or possibly in the context of this assistance. Ultimately, as a result of all these activities concerning not only representatives of domestic education but also parents, the schools that deal with it have been defined as such and not as a different form of this regulation. As far as the amount for this purpose is concerned, this is 0.6. In the case of statistical data, of course we are also talking about this, and this was also mentioned at this conference, the changes introduced in 2016 did not lead to a breakdown of the system of fulfilling school obligations outside school. In other words, if we had taken into account 2015, pupils fulfilling a school obligation outside the school were 7643, in 2016,11 251, and in 2017,13 955 pupils, i.e. almost 14,000, as you said. These changes, which were made, did not in any way adversely affect the continuation of such a form of compulsory schooling. On the other hand, with regard to the work that concerned the Law on the financing of educational tasks, in the case of a project that was proceded in the Sejm - the Sejm adopted this bill - initially at the stage of the work, consultation and seminars that were earlier, it was said to change the funding, as the Member said, taking into account the branch, so that it was not just conversion into a student. On the other hand, at the request of local corporations, these works were stopped - in the sense that they were not carried out - and they are continued. It is expected that within two years we will be able to present this further work. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These changes are not made because there has been a change in the structure of the educational system. Self-governments look forward to the final development of this system. They're two years old from a formal point of view. This system will take its final shape in 2019. After this date, it would probably be best to also introduce changes in the funding of education in a new way.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u38	Thank you, Minister. You will ask the following questions: Mrs Ewa Lieder, Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, Mrs Monika Rosa, Mr Marek Sowa and Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club. The question about tree clipping in the Białowieża Forest and the position of the government regarding the order of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Question addressed to the Minister of Environment. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment, Minister Andrzej Nebula will answer. Please, the first question is asked by Mrs Ewa Lieder. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u39	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! Today I have questions in connection with the judgment of the European Court of Justice of 20 November 2017 and the press conference of the Ministry of the Environment, at which Minister Jan Szyszko, Director of the Conrad Tomaszewski State Forests and Minister Andrzej Necessary denied the obvious facts and avoided answering journalists' questions. I'm counting on the substantive answers this time. The Court of Justice allows only one exception to the ban on clippings for security reasons - the need to ensure safety in the immediate environment of transport roads or other important infrastructure, when other less radical measures, such as. prohibition of entry, will not be applicable. What is the actual state of emergency, and how many fatal accidents occurred in the territory of the Białowieża Forest? Why cuts are carried out even 120 m from the roads, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] what, of course, is documented?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u40	I ask you, Mr Azievicz, Mr Borowczak, to turn your voice down a little, because you are disturbing the Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u41	In the statements of Director Konrad Tomaszewski at the conference, a preliminary declaration was made on the withdrawal of the Harwesters from the Białowieża Forest. Firefighters patrolling the forest filmed the day before yesterday a Harwester leaving the site of the clipping the day before, which means that there is still a cut-off using heavy equipment, and by the way, the litter and soil are still being destroyed. When will the harves stop being used in the Białowieża Forest to clipping trees? According to data from the Foundation Dzika Polska, by the end of August this year the State Forests cut out 140 thousand. trees in the Białowieża Forest. That's three times what PUL predicted earlier in the years before. And the third question. In 2016, the Council The Ministry of Environment has adopted an annex to the plan for the installation of the Białowieża Forest for the years 2012 to 2021. [[♪ The bell ♪]] which provided for a drastic increase in the limit of trees intended for clippings. I ask you to answer the question: When will the plan for the installation of the forest for the Białowieża Forest change in order to reduce the limit of trees for cutting, what does the Court of Justice expect us to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u42	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u43	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Thank you so much for these questions. I understand six minutes isn't enough to exhaust the answer to such specific questions. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I want to say, because it is still on such a certain level of manipulation, also media, that not all Białowieża Forest is a national park. 1/6 Białowieża Forest is a national park. There are three more foresights, which is worth emphasising, economic, where the forest economy has been run by man for several hundred years. At the moment, I would also like to correct another point that the honourable Member has said: I am sorry, but there is no judgment. You said there was a verdict. There's no verdict. [[It's a judgment.]] There's no verdict. Ladies and gentlemen! There is a provision of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which the Republic of Poland, as a member of the European Union, completes in its entirety. We are now complying with the provisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union. In this decision - I warn you about another question - there is no question of penalties imposed on Poland. [[I didn't say anything about punishment. Could you answer my questions, Minister?]] We have 15 days to answer how we applied this provision. The activities that were carried out were in line with that provision. At the moment, the main threats that existed have been removed: the threat of public security, and as far as I know, there are no Harwesters working in the Białowieża Forest, none. As regards the area of the Białowieża Forest, as you said, the safety clause, which was both in the first and the second order, not in the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, Mrs Katarzyna Herman accusing the Republic of Poland, Poland before the Court of Justice of the European Union - it is very important that you hear this, hear this, and those who listen to us, watch us - she demanded the closure of the entire forest for people, she demanded a ban on entering the entire forest... [[She's so...]] ...and only allowed people to travel to Białowieża by way of the Hajnowska voivodeship. And not only do foresters work in the wilderness, but not only do tourists come there, but research is also carried out. Polish Academy of Sciences - Instytut Biologii Ssaków, Department of Natural Forests - Forest Research Institute, the geobotanical station of the University of Warsaw conducts research there. That would mean that all people should be banned from entering the woods. Like you said, it's a matter of temporary measures to prevent entry or other restrictions. It is therefore a priority to ensure public security. In the Białowieża Forest we have a very large tourist infrastructure prepared both by the national park and by the soundtracks. We have very numerous hiking trails, trekking trails, Nordic walking trails and forest roads that are made available to the population to move. Therefore, I can't imagine letting the whole thing go away for security reasons. Forests are widely open and everyone can use them. Here's another thing. Yesterday, an open conference took place, during which the results of the natural inventory were presented in the Białowieża Forest. The Court of Justice of the European Union has not contested the plan of protective tasks for the Natura 2000 area. This plan of protective tasks provides for specific species to be protected. And here, Mrs Nitras, I would also like to invite you. [[Wait, wait, wait.]] He was talking about gadgets. I invite you to indicate which species we are supposed to protect and which we are not supposed to protect. You're welcome. How about here, this side? [[What are those key chains?]] [[Applause]] We have a natural inventory that... [[You still haven't answered my questions, Minister. Why are cutting 120 m from roads?]] [[Voice from the hall: Show me those cars that you drove from all over Poland...]] Madam, with such detailed content, kindly... [[Voice from the courtroom: For the taxpayer's money.]] Mr. Marshal, I will answer in writing so that this answer is complete. On the other hand, in principle, I would like to show you what is happening right now. The other thing is that if you do not act, these are the species that I wanted to present. There's so much talk about nature conservation. This concept is so widely used here. We have passive protection, which is in the Białowieża National Park and in nature reserves, and there is no protective action there, because it is passive protection, meaning doing nothing, and we have active protection, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which is introduced to the rest of the Białowieża Forest. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u44	I thank the Minister for both his response and for showing us these... [[The key chains.]] ...the beetles, I think. Please, Mr Truskolaski, an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u45	Minister! Of course, you did not answer Mrs Ewa Lieder's question, but I would like to ask you a few questions. First of all, was the logging of trees in the Białowieża Forest, not in the national park, but in the Białowieża Forest, finished and when did it happen? In accordance with the Court's decision, is wood in the wilderness no longer exported outside the forest? With what penalties Poland can count on you not to respect the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union? And last question: Is it true that the General Director of State Forests sent a letter to the staff of regional directorates and forewords that they had to participate in yesterday's spontaneous rally of support - I do not know for whom, perhaps for Minister Szyszko - was it an event organized by the State Forests, because there were official cars of State Forests there? Minister, how much did it cost us, taxpayers? That's one thing. And secondly, if [[♪ The bell ♪]] This was not an event organized by the State Forests, is it not to be reported to the relevant authorities? Thank you very much. [[Those cars...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u46	Thank you, sir. Please respond to the Minister. [[Who won the stamps for the delegations?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u47	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I understand, Mr Białowieża, that you completely ignore the Polish legal system and the legal acts that are in force in the Białowieża Forest. Let's make that assumption. [[Shame.]] First of all, there are three economic developments, there is a law on forests and there are plans for forest equipment. [[I'm asking you a question.]] I'm going to answer the questions. You used the word "cut." And now I ask you to interpret the language of the word Wycinka. When do we run the clipping? When we build roads, when we deforest the area, when we apply the law on the protection of agricultural and forestry land. There's a clipping, there's a clipping, there's a plan for a forest device, and there's a forest management. [[What do we have in the woods?]] Just a little bit, please. I'd say... Why don't you come over and we'll talk and give you a little more information? [[We're gonna cut out a tree.]] [[You're gonna send a car?]] The second point, sir, about the wood. The timber legally harvested is legal... [[Did I talk about legality?]] According to the rules that apply, wood is exported from the forest because it has been legally harvested. No one is questioning, either, the Court, unless the Member is unable to dispose of this wood. The third case with which punishment... Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to make it clear that we respect European Union law and that there are two directives in force in the Białowieża Forest: the Birds Directive and the Habitats Directive. Mr President, how many Natura 2000 sites do we have in Poland? [[That was your question, not ours.]] How many areas do we have? [[Minister, I'm waiting for an answer to my questions.]] So, Mr President, we have about 1000 Natura 2000 sites in Poland, of which approx. 38% it is located in the State Forests, and no one is questioning it, because due to its proper activities in ecosystems their state of conservation of biodiversity was such that, after joining the European Union, they deserved to be included in Natura 2000 areas. This is another case, a matter of punishment. There is no question of imposing penalties on Poland in the final decision. The tenor states that this will be decided by the Court of Justice of the European Union on 12 December at the main hearing. [[Okay, next question, Minister.]] So let's be here, ladies and gentlemen, very thorough. Another question. As far as I know, sir, it's... [[Cars.]] As far as I'm concerned, the meeting was organized by a social organization completely unrelated to [[♪ The bell ♪]] State Forests. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[So the law's been broken, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u48	Thank you, Minister. Another question. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Mr Dariusz Starzycki and Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. A question about the introduction of a system of psychological and pedagogical assistance in schools. The question is addressed to the Minister of National Education. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Mrs Marzena Machalek, is responsible. Please, the first question is asked by Mr Waldemar Andzel.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Providing psychological and pedagogical support to children and young people is an important aspect of development. Today, many students suffer from depression. Police statistics show an increase in the total number of deaths from nearly 4,000. in 2012 to more than 6 000 in 2014. Often the decision to accept specialists at school is conditioned not by the scale of needs, but by financial opportunities in terms of additional jobs for psychologists and school educators. In the 2015/2016 school year, an average of 0.75 teachers and 0.2 psychologists were employed, while in rural schools 0.55 teachers and 0.09 psychologists. Educational problems and mental health disorders, which are affected by factors such as violence and aggression among students, addiction to computer games and the Internet, depression or drugs, affect children and young people's lifelong lives. Only 39% of school heads see this problem. To a much greater extent, it is about 60.69% school educators and psychologists as well as specialists in psychology and pedagogical clinics see it. I therefore ask the Minister to answer the following questions: What does the Ministry intend to do about increasing the number of separate posts for psychologists and school educators? How much will the number of posts be increased? Third question. What are the expected costs of increasing the number of jobs for professionals? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u50	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u51	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, These are very important questions, very important issues, because they concern the proper development, the proper functioning of children and young people at school. I would also like to say that yesterday's committee meeting was a similar issue. We talked about the threat of cyber-violence, the impact of cyber-violence on the functioning of students, and how schools deal with it, how adults deal with it. And it is indeed a great challenge for us on these issues, because civilizational changes and huge progress have good results on the one hand, but this also reflects the fact that we have more children who need psychological and pedagogical help. Teachers need to be better prepared to identify children's problems, as well as to work well with their parents, because problems in recognising students' difficulties apply not only to teachers but also to parents. I also want to say that there is quite little trust in young people in teachers, in their parents, even if they have these problems, hence the great challenge and this challenge we are taking. What I'm trying to say is there's been an increase in the number of jobs. In 2015, there were 20,000 jobs in the field of psychological and pedagogical assistance. We've got nearly 22,000 at the moment. employment. I don't know if this data is good or not, but it's also worth thinking about, that 34% pupils and pupils of kindergartens are covered by various forms of psychological and pedagogical assistance in schools, kindergartens and other institutions, i.e. there are over 1.5 million of them. It's probably a sign of time. I would also like to assure you that the priority, a very important task that is ahead of us, is to provide access to psychological and pedagogical assistance by increasing the number of specialists providing this assistance. We want every student who needs this to be supported at school because the school should, first of all, prevent developmental irregularities, identify problems early, identify problems well and correctly, eliminate barriers, and strengthen young people's participation in the school. We are really doing a lot of work that we are already doing and we are working on to better and accurately identify the needs of young people and to support them in their development. In order to increase the access of students to teachers, psychologists and other specialists in schools, institutions and kindergartens, we have prepared new solutions for hiring specialists. The Education Finance Act harmonises - this is important - the mandatory dimension of hours, so-called. pence teachers, educators, psychologists and speech counselors, also professional advisors. Their salary was fixed not for 22 hours, but up to 22 hours spent, which is important, for direct contact with the student. Teachers with special education qualifications, additionally employed to co-organise the education of disabled pupils, have been appointed for 20 hours. In the Education Law Act, we indicated the need to adapt the organisation of education and forms of psychological and pedagogical assistance to the various development and educational needs of pupils. Since 1 September 2017, a new regulation on the organisation of psychological and pedagogical assistance in public schools, institutions and kindergartens has been in force. We stress in this regulation that the aim of the assistance is to support the student's development potential. We introduce, introduce new solutions in the field of psychological and pedagogical assistance, such as learning skills development activities, emotional and social skills development activities and an individualised learning path. Importantly, we often stress that this individualized learning path is meant for students who, for example, are interested. because of the state of health, they face difficulties in functioning in the classroom and require adjustment of the organisation of teaching at school premises. This year - this is important - as part of pedagogical supervision we monitor how kindergartens, schools and institutions carry out their obligation to provide psychological assistance to children and young people. It is also worth noting that among the priorities of the state policy for 2017/2018, the Minister of Education pointed out the improvement of the quality of inclusive education in schools and educational institutions. Monitoring of the organisation of psychological and pedagogical assistance in all types of schools is also carried out. As a result, school heads and institutions will have to take into account the basic orientations of the country's educational policy and, of course, the conclusions of the pedagogical supervision when drawing up the educational surveillance plan for the school year. We are conducting - and I have already said this at the outset - work on the preparation of a new model of education for pupils with special educational needs. The basis for this support and diagnosis will be a functional diagnosis, i.e. one which will be carried out by teachers who will be in first contact with the student, on the basis of [[♪ The bell ♪]] the functioning of the student, not just on the basis of the medical model. That's it. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u52	Thank you, Minister. Please ask for an additional question. Mrs Dziuk. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u53	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I wanted to refer to the NIK report on the lack of sufficient psychological, pedagogical care for children due to the lack of a psychologist and educator in schools, and I wanted to thank the Ministry very quickly for taking action on which the Minister had just said - it is about securing the professional care of the educator in schools. However, as the Minister has pointed out here, I would like to raise the issue of cooperation between several ministries in relation to security in cyberspace, because the technical progress we are all experiencing is unfortunately creating emotional problems for young people. And here's the question: will the Ministry of Education work with other ministries on these issues to ensure [[♪ The bell ♪]] the safety of the young generation and cooperation with their parents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u54	Thank you. I ask the Minister to answer the additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm answering additional questions. I realize that in this short time we are not able to answer all, e.g. on a specific financial amount, but it is all numbered. When it comes to educators, psychologists, methodological advisors, it's all numbered and it's included in the education grant. I would like to say that on average - it may not be good to calculate this on average - there are 230 students on a job in the field of psychological and pedagogical aid. However, I think it is worth mentioning this and it is worth mentioning that psychological and pedagogical assistance is provided not only by a psychologist and a school teacher. Psycho-pedagogical aid should be provided in the first place - and in total constantly taking care of the student - a teacher, a teacher. That is why we place such great importance on education at school, on the educational program. As far as our actions are concerned, apart from the fact that we have highlighted the importance of education in the Education Law, but also the importance of security in cyberspace, apart from the fact that we work with organisations, associations and relevant ministries and police, institutions, as I said, which are responsible for the safety of students, we have developed specific tools under this programme, specific procedures that we pass on to schools. The compendium of these procedures, knowledge of various threats, various crisis situations, including cyber violence, is very well received, actually for the first time this year parents, teachers, schools got the right tool. We are working very hard to prepare appropriate tools that will help to apply inclusive education, but above all, this may be what we call a functional diagnosis, which is to prepare tools that will help the school, the teacher, the teaching team properly identify the student's problems. The lack of proper identification of the student's problems - especially the way he functions socially, hence the functional diagnosis - does not allow the student to help, so the number of students in need of help is increasing. The question is how much diagnosis of psychological counseling, medical diagnosis is correct, how much this first diagnosis carried out by the teacher, by the team appointed in the school will be a more accurate diagnosis. Teachers are closer to the student, see how the student operates in the school community, and really based on this functional diagnosis it will be possible to help the students properly. From here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] as if not most important is, although important, increasing the number of educators, psychologists at school, but it is important to prepare each teacher properly, as well as good cooperation with parents. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u56	Thank you, Minister. High Izbo! Before we move on to the next question, I would like to inform Mr Sławomir Nitras and Mr Marcin Kierwiński that you have received a letter from Marshal Kuchciński, a complaint, a complaint about the fact that the question you have asked or asked will not be answered by the Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Błaszczak. I inform you that Marshal Kuchciński has addressed the Government on this matter and the answer is as follows. Since your question is a question about the reasons for the prosecution's prosecution's preliminary investigation of a journalist, the government considered that the person competent for the substantive answer would be the Deputy Prosecutor General, because Minister Błaszczak cannot answer the question on the reasons for the prosecution's initiation of the preliminary investigation. So much for you gentlemen, I apologize for the letter to the Marshal of the Sejm in this matter. Please, we go to the question about the reasons for the prosecution's preliminary investigation into a journalist who exposed the pathology of the prosecution's actions and revealed the gross abuse of police officers at the Wrocław Old Town police station. That's a question for the Minister of Justice. Deputy Attorney General Krzysztof Sierak will answer. Please, Mr Sławomir Nitras is the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u57	In fact, everything has been said about it. You just did it, Mr. Marshal Brudziński. Minister Błaszczak, there are official letters to this, he does not have to answer and can not be responsible for what happened at the police station in Wrocław. What can I say? What can a Member do when treated by a Marshal of the Sejm as an addition to a country managed by Jarosław Kaczyński with the help of his assistant Mr Błaszczak, who can do anything that can not even be asked a question? You've brought the House to a role that it doesn't deserve. We wanted to ask you why you didn't explain this young man's death at the Wrocław police station. Young people who may find themselves in the same situation in a few years and will be afraid, and their parents will be especially afraid when they hear that their son or daughter is at the police station. The police station isn't about people being scared. The journalist who reveals this is being chased by Mr. Błaszczak and Mr. Ziobra, and here is Mr. Brudziński, who says: but after all, such a country is an official magazine. This isn't exactly the country. Mr. Bojanowski should be rewarded by the Home Secretary for revealing what he revealed. [[Applause]] He should get a reward, and he's being chased by you. They're not wanted cops because there's an official letter. Even Mr. Kuchciński can write an official letter. The cops are retired, everything's great, nobody's after them. Mr. Błaszczak breaks his hands. Everything's fine. There's no one to blame for this man's death. Who's guilty? Bojanowski is guilty because he's exposed. There are many such Bojanowskis in Poland, but they do not have such a loud name. And there are many unpunished policemen, like this "Volt" of Białogard. And why are they impunityless? 'Cause they're so Brudish, the Błaszczaks. [[Stop it.]] That's the cause, that's the cause, that's the cause. At least I say good morning to my high school friends and they don't cross the street as they pass me. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's the reason. That is the question of why Mr. Bojanowski is being prosecuted by state authorities, and people in police uniforms who commit crimes are not being prosecuted. That's the question. And Błaszczak should answer that question here. And you, Marshal, are doing everything you can to keep Błaszczak from having to answer. We ask on behalf of the public, on behalf of the citizens, on behalf of those who are shocked by this fact, and on behalf of journalists, because free media is the basis of a democratic state. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u58	I'm asking the prosecutor to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u59	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In answer to the question on the reasons for initiating proceedings with a journalist, because that is the question, I would like to point out here strongly and point out that this procedure is not initiated against a journalist, against a journalist or against any other person. The proceedings are initiated in the case and are only at the stage of the collection of evidence. The proceedings shall be initiated in respect of breach of the confidentiality of the investigation and disclosure of information in connection with the performance of the function, namely the offence under Article. 241 Penal Code. I assure you that the procedure in question is fully well founded. [[Sure, of course.]] The basis for initiating this procedure is the notification of 25 May 2017 submitted by a representative of the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union of Policemen of the Lower Silesian Voivodeship of the suspicion of committing an act pursuant to Article. § 241 § 1 of the Penal Code, which consists in the public dissemination on 22 May 2017 by a journalist in the programme of Supervisiers of materials contained in the preparatory proceedings conducted by the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Poznań before these materials were disclosed in legal proceedings. This notification was sent through the Preparatory Procedure Department of the National Public Prosecutor's Office to the Regional Prosecutor's Office on 7 July 2017 in accordance with the jurisdiction. The proceedings were registered in the initial phase of its operation at the Warsaw-Mokotów District Public Prosecutor's Office in Warsaw, and subsequently after its initiation on 11 September 2017, following the creation of a new unit in Ursynów, they were transferred according to their properties to this unit. On 24 October, the prosecutor made a request for exemption by the court of the journalist of the TVN station from journalistic secrecy and sent it to the District Court for Warsaw-Mokotów in Warsaw for the dissemination of information from the preparatory proceedings conducted by the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Poznań. By order of 31 October 2017, following the examination of the prosecutor's application, the District Court for Warsaw-Mokotova pursuant to Article. 180 § 2 The Code of Criminal Procedure exempts a journalist from the obligation of journalistic secrecy, allowing him to be heard for the circumstances indicated in the prosecutor's request. Dear Izbo! On 17 November 2017, the National Public Prosecutor's Office examined the file of the present case and found that the prosecutor had requested that the journalist be released from secrecy very prematurely, that the prosecutor had not used any other means of evidence to determine the circumstances in which the prosecutor's disposition of the Article was required in the proceedings before the Court of Justice. 180 § 2 Code of Criminal Procedure. Only if the circumstances cannot be determined on the basis of other evidence, the Code of Criminal Procedure allows the possibility of obtaining evidence from a journalist's hearing, of course after his release by the court from secrecy. All observations resulting from the examination of the file of the case were submitted by letter of 17 November 2017 to the District Attorney in Warsaw for the purpose of the use of those comments, indicating, moreover, the need for the prosecutor to perform key activities in person. It was also pointed out that, in the event of an appeal against the decision of the court, it was appropriate for the prosecutor to make a complaint lodged by the journalist in view of the prematureness of the decision to repeal the secret and not to specify the circumstances to which the decision to exempt from secrecy should extend, of course, with emphasis on the journalist's right to conduct a journalist's investigation and publish its results. Dear Izbo! I assure you that this preparatory procedure is in no way aimed at gathering the evidence to show the journalist's responsibility and discredit the material issued in the programme. Nor is this procedure in any way an attempt to limit journalistic activity. It is merely intended to clarify all the circumstances of public dissemination without authorisation of the information from the investigation and to disclose, and maybe in particular, the disclosure of... [[You should be prosecuted for what you're saying.]] ...and to hold responsible persons who have disclosed information obtained in connection with the performance of their duties or duties. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[This is outrageous! Something extraordinary!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u60	Thank you, Mr. District Attorney. I would like to ask you an additional question by Marcin Kierwiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u61	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What you're saying, Mr. District Attorney, is outrageous. This is the humiliation of this House. [[Disgraceful!]] Moreover, it is humiliating for this House that ministers like Mr Błaszczak hide behind prosecutors, behind officials, because they do not have the courage to be responsible for what they should be responsible for. Mr Nitras said one thing that there could be more Bojanowskis like that. Mr Bojanowski, there are more of these, certainly. I'd like to remind you of your red. Thomas Five, who showed the strange relationships of Antoni Macierewicz. And what happened? Mr Macierewicz is once again hiding himself from the prosecutor's office, instead of answering the High House, what strange contacts, whom these strange contacts are meant to serve. Mr. District Attorney, please answer how it is that the Minister of National Defence, who is subject to very, very heavy public questions, addresses the case to the prosecution, you are dealing with this case, and you are not wondering why Mr. Macierewicz has such strange questions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] contacts. Maybe that's what you'd take care of, 'cause this is a case for you. I understand that this is your boss's party buddy, but you're here to investigate and explain this kind of thing, not to deal with journalists. You should take care of the ministers of this government, because that's where the most different kinds of pathology are. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u62	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u63	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I don't think this question is absolutely about the question I was answering today. [[If anyone's wrong, it's you.]] I would, of course, kindly ask a question in writing and I will certainly address it in detail. Thank you kindly. [[What the hell is that?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u64	Thank you, Mr. District Attorney. I would like to ask Mr Paweł Olszewski and Mr Tomczyk from the Civic Platform Club to ask a question about the CEPiK system. The question was addressed to the Minister of Digitization. Mr Karol Okoński corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization. The first question is asked by Mr Paweł Olszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u65	Welcome. Mr. Marshal! Minister! November 13th this year You have introduced, the government has introduced CEPiK 2.0. This program turned out to be a complete screw-up. Since the introduction of this system, it has not worked, providing municipalities and, above all, residents with real, huge problems. You explain in a curial way why this program does not work, saying that it is improved, that subsequent versions are updated. By a kind God, one must ask a fundamental question in this context. How could you allow a program that is completely unprepared to be put into service by blocking completely, preventing reliable performance of statutory duties by local government units? Essential question: How did this happen? Why was this programme implemented, even though it was not completely prepared? Has this program been tested? Please specify the number of vehicles during this period, since the introduction of this system, was to be registered, and by your mistake, the failure of this system was not left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u66	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I understand the concern of Members, because, in fact, as some media reports have followed, it would seem that after the implementation of the CEPiK 2.0 system in this part really came true armageddon. I wanted to reassure you that the situation is under control and communication departments in most cases can do normal work, especially as regards the service of mass customers. It is true that we had a few short-term system failures, while the failure lasted a maximum of 50 minutes. In the first days after implementation, the number of cases handled actually decreased significantly, but looking at the statistics, the data that are recorded in the central CEPiK database, we see that less than a week after implementation we reached the level of about 90% as regards the number of registrations ordered per day, in relation to the previous month. So that it is definitely something other than a vision of a malfunctioning system. Gentlemen asked for documents and registrations issued. This daily average from January to October was 20 785 registrations, while after implementation of the system this daily average is 17 455, i.e. 84% of this previous condition. Looking at this week, this number is already much higher, it is 18 899 issued registrations, which represents 91% the average of the previous period, so as you can see, the old things are normally working. There is also a smooth new functionality, which is integration. on-line with vehicle control stations. To this day almost 550 thousand have been registered at the central base. research, which translates roughly to the level of - 60,000. technical tests per day - similar to what it was in CepiK 1.0. And let us remember that the new system is also being used, apart from old times, by the police, by the General Inspector of Road Transport, by the Ministry of Finance and other institutions. We don't report any critical errors here either. In the first week, the central database was questioned over 0.5 million times - effectively questioned. At the same time, I would also like to say openly that, of course, it is not that the system is currently flawless, we do not say that at all. However, I assure you that the system cannot be run on such a scale without error, because the amount of interaction between the various integrated systems, the level of data combinations, the stages, the cycle of use of the document, the business process are so large that it is simply not possible to simulate all these combinations in test conditions. This concerns both state systems and commercial systems. Our tests with users prior to system startup, after internal tests, integration tests, safety performance tests, were carried out on data from several municipalities and with representatives of a number of ancients. Within the framework of these four iteration tests just with the ancients, after they were completed, at the time of the decision to implement, there were no identified blocking or critical errors. Due to the architecture of the system, how it is now built, due to the fact that there are local applications and a central base, and because of the lack of legal legitimacy, we could not decide to launch it by piloting, so it was required to implement in all ancients simultaneously. Currently we can actually talk about a period of system stabilization, which means increased readiness of implementation teams, both on the side of the central base provider and on the side of the local application provider. Extensive identification, analysis and correction of errors are still underway. The most critical problems of the first week have been corrected at this point, while the next ones are prioritised, and this is priorityd not only by us, but also in agreement and in contact with the ancients, in order to first improve what is most severe for them. At this point, customer service may still be extended, there may still be individual cases that cannot be handled by a given customer, and this is due to the fact that officials are still getting used to the system. Some errors at this point still require additional activities, so the service time of a single customer may be longer than some time ago. But we know, we see, we observe, we talk to communications officials... From this point on, I would like to thank them for their professional, patient and conscientious performance of their duties, because we know that they are doing everything they can to ensure that these possible obstacles in the system do not affect citizens and citizens. I can also say that we have made such a declaration to each other with the ancients that any issues concerning system optimization, certain changes, extensions will be diagnosed on an ongoing basis and will also be planned to be implemented. Let us remember that the design of the CEPiK 2.0 system was created in 2013, and now this was the third approach to launching this system, this time effective. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's still a part about the driver ahead of us that's gonna happen next year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u68	Thank you, Minister. I'm asking you for an extra question. Mr Cezary Tomczyk. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u69	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Today we speak on behalf of all drivers and all entrepreneurs who are wasting their time in the queues we hear about in Poland. It's worth verifying your words. You say on behalf of the ministry that things are getting better, and we hear that things are getting worse. I'll quote you three speeches from the last few days. November 20: In Sosnowiec, they estimated that by shutting down the system at present in the communication department there is a statistically 50% less dealt with. 21 November: We have the same problems that communications departments report throughout the country, says Tomasz Federowicz, head of the Communication Division in the Bydgoszcz Old Town. 21 November: Warsaw officials using CEPiK answer that all the elements of the CEPiK system are still working badly, the data search engine is not working in the system, the data comes in microscopic quantities, and the connections to the system only work from time to time. Well, how is it that the system's getting better and worse every hour and worse? [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u70	Yet, using the courtesy I know of you, Mr. Marshal, just one remark. It wasn't a mean thing to do with me. Minister, you said you couldn't run an unmistakably such a system. Well, with all due respect, if you accept this philosophy of thinking, every banking system would have holes, no banking system could function normally, and customers would be exposed to enormous losses. So it's not like you can't run flawlessly. You just have to prepare yourself professionally and enter it into use when it is already checked and all critical elements are verified.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u71	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen! So yes, referring first to the first question, about those opinions you quoted, I would like to say that there are 399, additional 130 delegations in Poland, so I would say that a sample of three old places is not, I think, completely representative. That doesn't mean that I'm questioning that there might not be any of those problems. [[Did you really use that argument?]] But from the perspective of the conversations we're having... It's not like I'm just looking at the statistics, and I'm quoting it to you just to somehow fool the impressions that customers or officials might have. We meet with these officials, and with the Union of Polish Districts, and with the Union of Polish Metropolises. We also recently had a meeting with the heads of communications departments of the largest cities. I can tell you objectively that every day is just better. Doesn't mean it's perfect. It depends on the moment when the opinions you were quoting were collected: it could have been that at a given moment, on a given day, the situation was actually worse. It could also be that... A category of business cases, I admit, actually at this point it still contains some errors and in terms of handling companies, it is undergoing intensive improvement. On the other hand, as regards the service of citizens, individual customers, we simply know that this performance is returning to the level that it was before the system was launched. As I say, possible repair items are still recognized, together with the ancients priorityd and repaired on an ongoing basis by this team with an increased staff. Can a system be implemented without errors? Well, sir, I was also implementing the banking system - I don't know if you were implementing - and I can say that just a certain level of system complications makes it impossible to organize it flawlessly. It is important that these errors do not block work, are not critical or that they be able to be repaired quickly. [[They're still blocking.]] From a process-scale perspective, the scale of the documents shows that the statistics I have presented to you show that we are able to handle these customers at a similar level as before when it comes to the number of documents issued, the number of orders placed, the number of changes, re-registrations and technical tests, which does not mean that during the stabilisation period, which is a typical element of each system implementation, there can be no situation that single customers will simply be served longer. This could be an extension of the service time that the old men are talking about. It can also happen that at a given time the customer will not be able to be served in the system, while there is always a chance to handle it in an emergency, paper mode and to supplement this information later. So, I would like to assure you that we are certainly making every effort to ensure that even those single voices you have mentioned are as little as possible and that the system will be within the next few minutes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] weeks have already had those mistakes much less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u72	Thank you very much, Minister. High Izbo! Let's move on to the next question. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz and Mr Wojciech Szarama, the Law and Justice Club, the question about launching the volunteer training programme for students Mon. The Academic Legion is addressed to the Minister of National Defence. Minister Michał Dworczyk will answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence. Please, the question is asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u73	Dear Marshal, Minister! The Polish army now has a very strong need to rebuild its personnel reserves. One of the ideas of the Ministry to eliminate this problem is to create opportunities for voluntary training of students under the FPS. Academic Legion. We know that theoretical classes have been starting at universities since November, and during the holidays students will be able to undergo training in military centers, on football fields. I would therefore like to ask the Minister how this pilot programme of voluntary training of students in terms of timeliness and cooperation with universities and with those concerned will work in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u74	Thank you very much. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for that question. Indeed, as part of many projects aimed at rebuilding the Polish Armed Forces' personnel reserves, the Ministry has launched a pilot program for voluntary training of students It is a programme implemented in agreement with the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. It assumes that state universities can apply for access, of course, to this programme, and then, also voluntarily, students at these universities can apply for military training: first theoretical training and then practical training of the field, after which they take an oath and become reserve soldiers. This programme is based on an agreement between the Ministry of National Defence and the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. Of the 98 state and military universities that are covered by this programme, 60 universities have volunteered to participate in this project. Considering the short part, ok. The three-week time when universities could apply and adopt appropriate senate resolutions, we believe that this is a good start, because it is almost 2/3 of institutions that are entitled to participate in the program. At these 60 universities, the creation of groups of students was started, which are expected to hold 30 hours of theoretical training. At this moment more than 130 groups were created, in which there are more than 4,000. students. This is, like I said, the beginning, the first semester. We assume that in the second semester there will be at least the same number of students and that the same groups will be created, so we assume that about 10,000 can apply to the program this year. students. As I said, theoretical training covers 30 hours of theoretical classes organized by universities, in university walls. The students receive basic knowledge of basic military training. Then those who pass will get a credit after these 30 hours and apply for access, willingness, are directed towards field training. To this end, they must pass through a sieve of military administration, the military command of additions. After qualifying, they go to a three-week field camp. 12 military units have been selected across the country where such training will be conducted. After these 3 weeks of intensive military training, they take a military oath, receive a mobilisation assignment and become reserve soldiers. For those people who are more ambitious and would like to undergo sub-office training, it is possible to extend intensive training by another 3 weeks and after the next 3 weeks and the sentence of the relevant exam, they become petty officers of the reserve. Training in the theoretical part is financed by the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. It is a cost of about PLN 1.5 million. The creation of this 10,000. training places during academic holidays, i.e. July, August and September, were defined as the cost in the budget of over PLN 200 million fully covered by the Ministry of National Defence. The training, as I said, is intense and provides for 12 hours of daily training activities, i.e. 12 times 45 minutes. Sunday's free. There is a very intensive training for shooting, and each participant will have the opportunity to learn about the general military knowledge, the basics of tactics, the basics of medicine of battlefields, field studies, topography, etc. We believe that this program has a chance to develop very well. Its strength is, you can say, this very voluntaryness. Those who have made themselves known - so far more than 4 000. Students and students - for this program, came in practically without any advertising, so we assume that in subsequent editions, i.e. In the summer semester, in which also students and universities will apply for this program, and then in the next editions this program will have a lot of interest. After piloting, since 2018, we plan to distribute this training into three modules, for the interested, of course. In the first year it will be a module for privates, the second year of training will be training for petty officers, and the third year will be training for reserve officers. It is worth noting that students and students will have the opportunity to undergo any military training for the first time in 9 years, because for the last 9 years there have been no such opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u76	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm asking you for an extra question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u77	I would also like to ask the Minister if, in the event of a university not joining the programme, she will be able to take part in the training in some way. The programme is aimed at public universities. Can they, and under what conditions, attend private school students? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u78	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! True, the program is addressed to state universities and so far private university students cannot participate in it, while those students who study in universities who have not applied to the program, but are state universities, can easily apply for training of the Academic Legion organized at other universities. At the moment, it is already happening that universities, especially major cities, voivodships, communicate with each other and students from those universities who have not yet applied to the programme, will attend classes organized at the university, which is already qualified for this programme. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u80	Thank you very much, Mr Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Mrs Anna Czech and Mr Grzegorz Raczak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, a question on the organisation of psychiatric care addressed to the Minister of Health. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Mr Marek Tombarkiewicz will answer. Please, as the first question asked by Mrs Anna Czech.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u81	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A discussion on the necessary changes in psychiatric care has been underway for a long time. The environments involved in the implementation of these benefits, as well as patient and family organisations, have already expressed their views on this subject. For this reason, I ask you to answer the following questions: What are the predictions of the deadline for piloting psychiatric care centres and how long will the duration of this piloting be? Secondly, what criteria will ultimately be adopted in relation to piloting facilities? Thirdly, what action will be taken against those facilities that fail to meet the piloting criteria? When will the new valuations be announced, taking into account the incurred costs of providing benefits established by the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification for Psychiatric Treatment in general? When will a new basket of benefits be announced for providers who will not carry out piloting? And last question: When will the funds ultimately be increased for underfunded psychiatric care for years and will the final valuation of benefits be the same for all voivodships? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u82	Thank you very much. And I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u83	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! So one at a time, the answers to these questions. The first question, about the deadline for piloting mental health centers. We are currently planning to pilot mental health centers, whose main objective is to move and test the new model, i.e. care under environmental conditions versus the current model of care in large psychiatric hospitals, namely stationary hospital care, began on 1 July 2018. This is the period required to prepare the conditions of this piloting well. We're in the final phase. That's the first reason. The second reason is that psychiatric care contracts are annexed by the end of June next year, so that the date of 1 July will be the date which will separate the units that will start piloting and will conclude such contracts. The second group are individuals who will remain in the current model of care and will proceed to competition proceedings from 1 July, i.e. in the first half of the year. This deadline is therefore 1 July 2018. We plan to have the pilot run for three years, 36 months. After each year of this programme, an evaluation will be prepared of the results that will flow from the pilot centres to the extent that these organisational and financial arrangements are sufficient or sufficiently motivated to provide such environmental care. This evaluation will also aim to modify the piloting process so that, after each year, this programme can be amended in the case of comments submitted. As regards the criteria for studios wishing to enter pilotage, these criteria were transmitted on 14 July 2017 when entities signed a declaration of accession to the pilotage of environmental protection. The criteria were developed by a team which was established in April ub. in the Ministry of Health, at the Ministry of Health, and a team of experts for the implementation of this pilot programme under the National Mental Health Programme. There is a very wide composition of experts, i.e. representatives of the Polish Psychiatric Society, the Association of Psychiatric Branches of General Hospitals and the Institute of Psychiatric and Neurology in Warsaw, as well as a national psychiatric consultant, a national psychiatric consultant or a very wide group of experts who were very responsible in establishing criteria. The specific criteria set out in the Annex to this declaration assume that the role of emergency care may be fulfilled by the 24-hour ER and need not be separated from the 24-hour ER in the psychiatric ward, only it may be a general ER operating in the hospital, where there will be a psychiatric care centre, which will be on 24-hour duty, so that patients who apply for emergency care will have a place where they will be able to report on 24-hour basis. Another criterion is to have at least three forms of care for at least two years out of all four, i.e. outpatient, environmental, day and 24 hours. So you have to have three of these four and a contract for the last two years. In addition, outpatient, environmental and day care must be organised in the area of operation of this centre outside this area, allowing only hospital care to be located. These criteria will not be modified during the selection of healthcare providers. Today we can say that as many as 139 actors have declared accession, which is a very good response from the environment. As far as further questions are concerned, so the actions that will be taken with regard to facilities that will not enter this pilotage, nothing changes here. As I said, the individuals who declared this will receive contracts under the rules set out in this pilotage, while those who have not decided to join it, in the first half of next year will proceed to normal competition proceedings on the same terms. so far, that is to say, the continuation of the agreements that are now in operation. As regards the fourth question, the date of the increase in funds for psychiatric care in the light of planned organisational changes, as regards the financing of all psychiatric care, it should be pointed out that despite the continued increase in the amount of expenditure on the provision of psychiatric care, the treatment of addiction in 2015 was 18.5%. in relation to 2011, i.e. for 4 years - 18%. The Ministry of Health, in line with the new edition of the National Mental Health Programme, generally aims to increase expenditure on all health sectors, including psychiatric care. As far as the valuation is concerned, this valuation was carried out at the Medical Technology Assessment Agency in the first half of the day. r. and yet due to the parallel ongoing work on piloting [[♪ The bell ♪]] and the financing rules for this pilotage have not entered into force. But this is a process that we're going to be working on in parallel now. It is about the agreements and rules for financing pilotage and, at the same time, the increase in expenditure for classic branches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u84	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask you an additional question by Mr Grzegorz Raczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u85	Minister! Psychiatric care integrated is, of course, a very important thing and it is important to select the right actors to participate in such piloting. My question is: Will the Ministry verify this list of entities? How will this be done?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u86	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, we are based here on knowledge and experience, as well as on information gathered by the National Institute of Psychiatry and Neurology in Warsaw, which is our unit, subordinate to the Ministry, and therefore it is the unit most responsible for cooperation and this cooperation is very strict. The verification will be carried out through the Institute of Psychiatry and Neurology, while the final list will be approved by the Ministry of Health in accordance with its powers, so that this should be handled in a very rational manner. We want these centres to be chosen as best as possible, so that the results of the activities are best for the whole environment, so verification will be through the Institute of Psychiatry and Neurology, and final approval through the Ministry of Health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u88	Thank you very much, Minister. The last question will be asked by Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Mrs Anna Paluch, Mrs Anna Milczanowska and Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The question about plans for reconstruction, reconstruction and expansion of flood shafts by the State Water Farm Polskie in 2018 and the scale and criteria of investment selection. The question is addressed to the Minister of Environment. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment, Minister Mariusz Gajda, will answer. Please, Mrs Anna Paluch is the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, Water is a symbol of life, and rivers for the nature of the surrounding man are essential in order to sustain this life. But water is not only life, but also sometimes a threat, i.e. flood risk. Depending on the type of water flows in the rivers, man can very likely protect himself from this threat, above all by proper spatial planning, but also by building flood shafts, one of the effective means of protecting against flood risks. The Water Law adopted on 20 July this year establishes a new entity, a state legal entity of the Polish Waters and sets out a catalogue of tasks of this entity, an organisational structure, principles of financial management, and the finances of this entity, add, are created on the basis of the principle of reimbursement of the costs of water services and give the opportunity to create a new, efficient way of financing water management and protection against flooding. Hence my question: Minister, does the State Water Farm of Poland predict in 2018 - this is the first year of its existence, because as of 1 January 2018 this entity will start to operate - the implementation of these safeguards? If so, on what scale? What will be the criteria for selecting these investments? Thank you very much. I'm saving my friends time for further questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u90	You're welcome. Are you ladies still asking questions at this time? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u91	Mr. Marshal, maybe after the Minister's reply, he's still there. Just leave it to your friends for half a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u92	Please. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say that indeed from 1 January the National Water Farm of Poland will start functioning, which will finally integrate flood protection in the sense: one river host and one flood shaft host. What has been going on so far was often uncoordinated tasks. Examples can be multiplied: on the one hand there is the Podkarpackie voivodship, and on the other hand Świętokrzyskie voivodship, where the Marshal of Świętokrzyskie voivodship has already performed part of the shafts, and the Marshal of the Podkarpackie voivodship has not yet arrived, in 2010 there was a tragedy, Wisła spilled. And now since the new year... We are already preparing for these tasks. We need to coordinate all these tasks with regard to the construction of flood shafts. There is, of course, an approved flood risk management plan, which includes some of these investments, but it also needs to be made clear here: the tasks that have been reported to the management board of drainage and water facilities are often uncoordinated tasks, and we must first of all coordinate these tasks. We've gathered information on the number of investment tasks. This is about 450 investment tasks carried out or planned to be carried out in the coming years. The total cost of their implementation is estimated at almost PLN 15 billion, i.e. huge amounts, but they are mainly due to the fact that they were long-term, even decades of negligence in this area. Now we will have to set a detailed schedule for the implementation of the tasks after the new year in such a way that, first of all, we start to carry out those tasks that protect the largest number of people, tasks that are priority tasks in the sense of so-called. Hotspots, flood spots, of course, not forgetting that everything needs to be finally resolved comprehensively, among others. also through other forms of protection against flooding, such as the construction of reservoirs. Because if a tank is built, the shafts may be lower, and the shafts themselves often have counterproductive effects, namely water moves down the river and does not pour out at this point, but will pour out elsewhere. These criteria, which we will follow, will be whether these tasks are included in the planning documents, i.e. the Flood Risk Management Plan. It is valid until 2021, but we are already updating it. We will be guided by building surveillance decisions and technical analysis of facilities, as I said earlier, where there is the greatest threat, where most people are at risk, the largest assets are at risk. Of course, all this is related to finance, i.e. the funds of the National Water Farm of Poland, which are for us precisely the resource of the reimbursement of the costs of water services, but also European funds, funds from environmental funds. We also carry out tasks within the framework of the World Bank project. These are tasks on the Oder and on the upper Vistula. So, in other words, of course, we need to verify these tasks on the one hand, we need to make a priority list for these tasks, because at the moment it is a set of tasks, but not yet coordinated in the way it should look to the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u94	Thank you very much. And additional questions. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u95	Thank you very much. Minister! We are happy with all of us, Poles, words about finally stabilising the functioning of the protection and taking care of the flood shafts. On the other hand, Minister, I have a more regional question. Częstochowa is the city of my district and this is the second largest city of the Silesian Voivodeship. It is located in a water node formed by the Warta river and smaller rivers: Konopka, Stradomka, as well as the Warta channel. In 2010, as well as before, in 1997, Częstochowa survived floods. The first caused large losses, the second - a little smaller. These floods were noted and therefore an investment involving the overbuilding and construction of flood shafts was included in the 2006 Oder programme. In 2013 and 2014 geodetic arrangements were carried out gradually, the plans being prepared. On the other hand, in November 2014, the programme ceased to function and no funds were granted for 2015. In 2016, the measures were granted but were not used for other reasons. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask the following question: In which towns is the planned implementation in 2018 of an investment involving reconstruction, reconstruction and expansion of flood shafts and is such activities planned in Częstochowa? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u96	Thank you. And I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u97	Thank you very much. (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, as I said, Częstochowa is called. A hotspot, which is a particularly vulnerable place. The main river Warta, the tributaries of Stradomka, Konopka, as well as the canal coincide there. These actions are included in the flood risk management plan, but also in a slightly broader area. Namely, we would like to modernise the reservoir of Time to increase its flood capacity. So that here is an extremely important issue of increasing retention in urbanized areas, because increasingly these floods come from the fact that a large amount of water flows from sealed, urbanized areas, while there are no buffer zones, retention tanks. The plans were planned, briefly to say: further modernization of flood shafts in Częstochowa from km 5+160 to km 5+900, reconstruction of river shafts Warty with a length of 5.2 km, in Częstochowa and in the village of Słowik reconstruction of river shafts Stradomki on a section of approx. 6 km, reconstruction of flood shafts of the Konopka river on a section of 2.7 km, reduction of risk through flood protection of the Old Town area in the area of ul. Krakowska, i.e. construction of a left bank shaft or other kind of protection for a length of about 700 m, reduction of risk by flood protection of the district of Expansion, as well as other activities. Of course, these actions will be undertaken comprehensively and depending on the financial resources. However, I can assure you that next year we will begin to implement these measures in a step-by-step manner. As for the detailed timetable, unfortunately, I will be able to answer this question in three or four months' time, when we will have more detailed data, because at the moment it is in the hands of the management of melioration and water equipment and it is only just coming into the gesture of Polish Waters, so it will be possible to discuss it in more detail. Nevertheless, these actions which I have said will be taken next year. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u98	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your questions. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that the present meeting of the Sejm will consider the information on waste management, which was requested by the Kukiz Club15. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and representatives of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Ms Agnieszka Chasing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In recent years there has been no voivodship in Poland where there would be no phenomenon related to illegal landfills, arson or abandonment of garbage. Recent loud events in Małopolska related to the arson of criminally stored garbage in close proximity to houses and workplaces are just the tip of the iceberg. The so-called trash law of 2012 introduced a number of changes which were intended to improve the management of waste in Poland and led to a state that can in many cases be referred to as a state of environmental disaster. Fired trash in the Keys, which have become a direct threat to the life and health of the inhabitants and the environment, are a clear example of the fact that the law is badly constructed. We have a lot of situations like this. Only recently similar events took place in the villages: Keys, Strzeżów, Niewsławice, Bytom, Gorlice, Skawina, Gliwice, Poznań, Troubles, Radom or Jastrzębie. Illegal landfills or those that openly violate the conditions of decisions are plagues. A lot of local governments. They directly pose a threat to human life and the environment. Legal solutions, e.g. the elimination of environmental impact reports in the case of a decision on the storage of sorted waste, and the absence of any regular forms of supervision of international trade in waste and the lack of financial safeguards against the negative effects of economic activity in this area have caused Poland simply to sink in garbage. It was supposed to be ecological, and wild landfills, where criminals get rich, destroy the environment and health of citizens. Proceder's been thriving for years. Companies that were to deal with segregation and recycling receive without any control any waste and dump it in areas that are most often post-industrial. These companies carry out their activities with impunity, often acquiring funds from companies from other countries. They bring trash and profit. If the case gets loud, media, they fold their business, most often leaving the trash or simply setting them on fire. Of course, profits go into criminals' pockets, and cleaning takes place at the expense of local government or the Treasury. It's not an incident, it's really a plague. Does the Ministry keep an overview of the costs of the State Treasury or local authorities when it comes to cleaning up after these dishonest enterprises? Of course, the law obliges businesses to clean up what they've messed up themselves, but unfortunately, very often they close their business, and it's really us taxpayers, because it doesn't matter whether they pay old age or pay the local government or pay the State Treasury, we pay for cleaning up all the garbage that caused the other companies to get rich. The law requires immediate changes, but the work has been going on for 2 years. As a result of the lengthy work, another dump burns, we pay for further crimes. Although local authorities appeal and ask, all answers lead to the fact that the law does not allow such a permit to be refused. The company that messed up in one municipality is about to get a permit in the other municipality because there's no way to ban it. All over Poland, of course, criminal proceedings are conducted, which last for years and are often remitted. Do you have any knowledge of how many such proceedings are being conducted and with what success do they end? The costs of this defective bill, Minister, may be far greater than the costs caused by the printer's barker in terms of what the European Union will impose on us for this. Does the Minister intend to undertake legislative work to make it compulsory to provide financial security against obtaining permission to collect and process waste in order to implement the principle of Polish environmental law, which says that the polluter pays? Does the Minister also consider providing the Environmental Inspection with additional control elements, thanks to which it would have e.g. the possibility of carrying out checks without prior notification of checks? Why is there no mandatory requirement in the case of storage activities to carry out an environmental impact assessment? Minister! These incidents are repeated. They really cost us a lot, and not only financially, but above all they cost health, they often threaten our environment. Is it really true that I am not afraid to use these words: the trash mafia in Poland - and it is profiting from it, really must last so long? Can we not introduce provisions that have been called upon by local governments for years and, above all, by our citizens? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u100	Thank you, Member. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment by Minister Sławomir Mazurka. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for this question, Member. The Commissioner has shown these phenomena, which we have well-diagnosed, which we have described in the opening balance. When I spoke of such mafia phenomena from this lecturer, I was struck by thunder in the media that I saw the mafia where it wasn't. Of course, mafias have different tools to act, to inspire opinions or other opinions. There is often a misunderstanding of these mechanisms, which are precisely quasi-mafia, because they result from a number of links. They actually involve the diagnosis of the state and all of this, such an acceptance of lack of responsibility in many areas. This is not only about the highest level, which concerns the greatest responsibility for the state, but also about the local level. An example is the situation near Hrubieszow. The decision was made by the governor, and his control of the decision was that the excavation was carried out at a depth of 15 cm and no waste was found in the excavation site. When inspectors arrived with excavations, it turned out that there was simply someone who created an illegal landfill of municipal waste, thus optimizing their economic processes. It was allowed, there was a lack of proper responsibility at this level. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Currently, work is underway in Parliament on a government bill amending the Waste Act. The project proposes the obligation to record waste only electronically via an electronic database on products, packaging and waste management. This solution will require waste transport drivers to have confirmation of the creation of a waste transfer card generated in the waste database. Yesterday we had our first reading of the project. This project, you might say, is superpolitical. It's okay to fight these pathologists, it's okay to do that. That's how I feel after yesterday's committee meeting. The project also plans to abandon the aggregate waste transfer card. These changes will enable the on-line tracking of waste and not, as yet, periodic verification of waste transport data with the data contained in the waste transfer sheet set up in the database. It cannot be that these cards are created after a month from memory or in any other way and then when checking it cannot be checked, you cannot compare these results, cross the data. This database of possibilities... also thanks to technology or in agile procedure will allow for adding more modules, testing them, and such functionality we will run. In the near future, we are considering, analysing, proposing further legislative amendments aimed at sealing the existing rules and facilitating supervision and control of waste management activities. We are considering introducing a financial guarantee mechanism for entrepreneurs operating in the field of waste management in order to prevent waste being dumped by such owners. The entrepreneur works and every law... And very good businessmen work. Only if someone does not have the right facilities, means, then it ends with the fact that very often here we are dealing with similar mechanisms, which are in the case of VAT or steel, where we simply have the phenomenon of poles, and the waste ends up in a barn with a person who does not have the money to manage it. These are similar mechanisms. This also indicates that where these organized criminal groups operate, they use similar mechanisms. And here's the country. It can't be theoretical either. This solution with financial safeguards for the replacement of enforcement in order to remove waste disposal is precisely intended to do so, because today it is to optimise criminal economic activity at the expense of the state. And this country, that is, we, all taxpayers, are paying, as you said, for those phenomena that appear in waste management and for those pathologies that are. In some cases, the application for authorisation of waste management has also been made by entities whose situation has not been properly verified or subsequently that activity has not been optimized. We are also considering introducing a change aimed at facilitating the implementation of activities by the Environmental Protection Inspection without prior notification. But of course, you will read in one newspaper, once very popular, that at hours. Six o'clock in the morning, the inspectors knock. And so, of course, every project will be... We're gonna want to strengthen the inspection, and you're gonna remember the first page in the paper that said we'd be here at hours. Knock at 6:00 in the morning. No one is working on such a project, but it is about strengthening inspections so that inspections can effectively combat environmental crimes, of course in agreement with other authorities, and this is happening today. With the police, we work very closely with the National Tax Administration in this area, but also with the Ministry of Justice, which organized an international conference on the responsibility of collective entities, because today it is very difficult to capture the one who committed such a crime, because it must first be a natural person. This is a very good conference last week, which has shown different solutions in other countries. It is therefore worth using this, because we are not the only ones in Poland who have a problem with the grey zone in waste management and criminal activities in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, in the case of waste disposal projects, I would like to inform you that there is a requirement to carry out an environmental impact assessment, which is based on the provisions of the law in force. On the other hand, as regards the absence of a requirement to carry out an environmental impact assessment for such a waste collection project as part of the last amendment of the Council of Ministers Regulation of 9 November 2010 on projects likely to have a significant impact on the environment as a result of an assessment of compliance with European Union legislation, the projects listed in the provisions of the Directive on the environmental impact assessment of certain public projects have been removed. I kindly inform you that the Ministry of the Environment does not, unfortunately, carry out a set-up of waste dumps that have been disposed of at the expense of local authorities, and we do not have a register that can show us what the scale of enforcement procedures to carry out alternative executions looks like, but I have requested such data in the framework of the Degradable Lands Team, which works at the Ministry of the Environment, because in order to make good decisions, to convince our colleagues in the government, so that we prepare the best law, the data is very necessary and necessary. Of course, we also have information from inspectors that a number of actions undertaken by the inspection, even when it does its job well, unfortunately, then - unfortunately, it was - in many cases, the prosecution has not taken it, and even if the inspector has closed an installation that has a negative impact on the environment, very often the courts have decided at the request of the operators to suspend the decision of the inspector closing the plant that has a negative impact on the environment and the lives of the inhabitants. It is also a serious problem related to such blocking of decisions that are intended to serve the environment and residents. As part of this team, where we work, in terms of degraded areas, we meet local government officials, we use their experiences, we use them, we gather knowledge, we carry out these works together with other ministries, with their representatives. We are working on proposals, legislative solutions that will bring us closer to achieving this goal in terms of reducing the type of pathology that has been mentioned today. As far as data are concerned, as part of the Degradable Land Team at the end of June 2017, we identified cases of waste accumulation sites. I will give you by the following categories: storage of waste for up to 3 years in place for this purpose not intended - 15, disposal of waste over 3 years in place for this purpose not intended - 34, leaving waste after business - 66, leaving waste by unknown perpetrators - 6, historical sites of waste accumulation - 8, including where the environmental committee was recently - Tarnowskie Góry, but also Jaworzno and Zachem in Bydgoszcz. Most cases of waste accumulation are located in the Lower Silesian Voivodships - 21, Małopolskie - 17, Mazowieckie - 14, Silesian - 14, Wielkopolski - also 14. The least cases of waste accumulation are in Lubelskie, Pomeranian, Podlaskie and Lubuskie voivodships. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u102	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Is any of the ladies and gentlemen of the House still willing to vote? If not, I'm closing the list of speakers. I'm opening a discussion. First, Mr Józef Brynkus. One and a half minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We often deal with cases where local government units are forced to dispose of garbage because they have been abandoned. Half the poverty when the garbage is small, but worse when the illegal landfill is so great that it threatens the safety and health of the inhabitants. That's the case I met in Wadowice. In early 2016, we exposed a massive illegal garbage dump - 300 tons. We have notified all possible institutions, including the Ministry of the Environment. However, the Ministry, like Pilate, said that the owner of the area where the garbage was stored was responsible for the garbage shipment, according to the law. But the problem is, there was no further interest. As a result of our actions, the prosecution initiated proceedings, but discontinued them, stating that this was not a threat to safety. For two years, this garbage dump was functioning, rat passwords, sacks were smashed, smelled out of it. That's one thing. The second point is the financial issue. Although the mayor removed 300 t of trash, he still has not recovered funds for these activities. An execution is carried out against an entity that was the actual perpetrator, but does not have the resources. They are available to the person who was the employer, but in turn he has a powerful political back, not necessarily this good change. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have a question for the Ministry: How many local governments, whether you are aware of it, have spent public funds on so-called. substitute performances? If you cannot answer now, please answer in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u104	Thank you, sir. I have a huge request to all the ladies and gentlemen speaking in the debate to try to fit in in time, because then there will be a chance for all those who have written to speak in this discussion. Please, Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I just wanted to point out that these reprehensible phenomena, which Mrs Szczaj spoke about, are either limited or not related to the so-called ones at all. It's a trash bill. It has caused only the fact that wild landfills do not create citizens, but it encourages these wild landfills to be created by businesses that want to reduce the costs of collecting and storing waste. These most pathological phenomena are mainly related to the regulation and regulations concerning the storage and storage of waste in places not intended for this purpose by operators recovering waste outside installations, namely the use of so-called. areas which have been badly transformed. And here, under that sign... A regulation on these conditions was issued in 2006 by your previous government. And they are the source of the greatest pathology. In 2015 a regulation was prepared, which seals a little bit, and it has been working since then. That Regulation required consent if the formal conditions were met. That's what makes the law applicable. [[♪ The bell ♪]] indications on spatial planning. I just have a question about statistics. If you don't mind, I'd like to ask you how much... [[Voice from the room: Time!]] [[Voice from the room: Everyone wants to ask a question.]] [[Voice from the room: Everyone wants to catch up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u106	Member, please finish.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u107	Good. Then I'll put the questions in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u108	Thank you. I'll repeat the request. I will, of course, allow for longer speeches, just be aware that people at the end of the list will not be able to speak in the discussion. You are welcome, Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! No doubt, Mrs... Since this regulation issued in 2006 was so bad, why did you wait until 2015 and for the years to come your governments have done nothing about it? [[What have you done for two years?]] Unfortunately, it is very revealing the actions of the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, the opening balance sheet, the opening report prepared by the Chief Environmental Protection Supervisor. Ladies and gentlemen! Over the years, there have been many omissions, for example in areas such as the increase in the phenomenon of dumping hazardous waste, the storage of hazardous waste in areas to this unforeseen or, for example. filling waste products of unknown origin which significantly endanger not only people's lives but also the environment. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a problem that we are absolutely struggling with. And my question to the Ministry: Minister, what action does the Ministry take in the context, for example, of providing the Chief Environmental Officer with tools to prevent such pathologies? What is the problem regarding the introduction of illegal waste into the territory of the Republic of Poland from our neighbours, but also the shipment of waste between the so-called. regions within our country? This is unacceptable. And we know, [[♪ The bell ♪]] We have information that such situations happen. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u110	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will not, like my previous speaker, go back to history and deal with showing who did wrong, because I heard the Minister in his speech saying that the Ministry is working on a new project that will regulate this very difficult, complex issue. The atmosphere suggests that there's a chance for a compatible, cross-party problem to be dealt with, not who did what or who didn't. Minister, is there such a chance that, in this new solution, we will want to work together with the landlords, local governments, to work out these assumptions and criteria, so to speak, the fight against this difficult business? Is it possible that stricter criteria will be introduced in areas such as consent or analysis before consent to the location - I think this could be prepared and done - and new elements and instruments of the Environmental Protection Inspection will be provided? In addition, there are issues of the introduction of waste, especially those dangerous, from abroad. I think it's to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u112	Thank you, sir. Mr Dariusz Starzycki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u113	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When discussing waste management, it is impossible not to mention hazardous waste, so-called waste. environmental bombs left behind in our inheritance after the previous system. One of the biggest such bombs in our country is the landfill of waste in the Wąwolnica Valley in Jaworzno. 200,000. extremely toxic waste. The estimated cost of disposal is approx. PLN 1 billion, and the cost of collateral alone is approx. PLN 200 million. We have already talked to the Minister on this subject several times, also in this Chamber. The Minister has set up a special team of experts to prepare appropriate legal and financial solutions in this area. All I can add here is that the Government of Law and Justice is the first government to specifically address this issue. [[Applause]] No previous government has taken this case seriously. As this team has been working for several months, I have a question for the Minister: At what stage are the work of this team and when can we expect the concrete solutions that will solve this very important problem? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u114	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mrs Lydia Gądek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I just wanted to tell the Minister that, in the case of landfills, especially illegal ones, there is no need to knock. Not at 6:00 in the morning, not at 8:00 in the evening. You can just go in there, you can do the job, so there's no problem with that. However, since the opening balance was so dramatic, as we have heard from both the Minister's mouth and from one of the Members, I have a request for a written reply to the question of how many cases have been addressed in this connection to the prosecutor's office at the stage at which the proceedings are concerned, how many judgments have already been brought in this regard. I understand there's been a lot of that for two years, and we'd like to know about it. I'm going back to the matter of waste management and illegal landfills. Ladies and gentlemen, since today we have such a situation that in fact the local government, which is the governor, must give consent to the landfill of waste, after carrying out an appropriate environmental impact assessment, it is also stated in the regulation, as far as I know, that it has a monitoring obligation. However, if we have such a situation that neither the governor nor the provincial inspector, who is under voivodeship, does not monitor these illegal or legal, but illegally stored waste, then I ask you to tell me how much was on the part of the voivodship inspectors and seniors [[♪ The bell ♪]] proposals that would enforce proper waste management. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u116	Thank you. Mr Łukasz Rzepecki, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u117	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! The subject of waste management this is a very serious topic for the people of our country that we need to take care of. This is also the subject of illegal landfills, as the previous speaker said. Therefore, I also have two questions for the Minister. How do you monitor the composition and quality of illegal landfills and are there procedures for testing the quality of garbage and the composition of illegal landfills? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u118	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u119	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we have a discussion about the burning of garbage, while I would like to draw attention to the burning of garbage, perhaps even more dangerous than the whole storage problem, because we have direct contact with pollution which is very dangerous for human life, especially for young children. In domestic boiler rooms, but not only, chemical waste is burned very often. If they're organic, they're half poor. Whereas chemistry, packaging, all plastic is a very harmful and dangerous poison. We all know that. What does that come from? Well, often from poverty, from poverty, from the lack of money to buy coal. Today, the price of good coal went up by 30%. The lack of resources, especially in pensioners, makes it necessary to burn. Question: "Is the government taking action here?" Here it is needed, among others. awareness, but also help for those who expect this financial assistance. What measures are being taken by the government in order to limit this phenomenon that we are dealing with on a daily basis and which in the first place [[♪ The bell ♪]] has a negative impact on our health? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u120	Thank you, sir. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u121	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are talking a lot here about irregularities in the waste management system, hence questions to the Minister: Is there any further legal solutions to normalise, civilise this waste management besides this law that we are going to be investigating in the Sejm today? When can we expect draft laws and what will they possibly concern? The second element is cooperation with regional governments. I remember that in the voivodship waste management plans there were very serious problems regarding the timeliness of presenting these plans, and therefore - problems with the possibility of using EU funds. How's it going with the marshals today? How do they perform their duties? Don't their actions sometimes make it easier for bush companies or companies that benefit from legal inaccuracies? Another element is the law on maintaining cleanliness and order in municipalities. When it was examined in the previous term, there were voices that it would practically eliminate the phenomenon of illegal disposal of waste. Today we know that it is not. Do you have any comparative data that would allow us to show whether the situation today has changed in comparison with the situation 5 or 10 years ago and whether it has changed in favour or in favour? Another element is related to EU standards on waste recovery and recycling. Are we fulfilling these standards right now? Are there any threats to fulfilling them? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The last element, such a forward-looking one, concerns the economy of closed circulation. What is the state of preparation for this important challenge imposed on us by the European Union? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u122	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mrs Bożena Kaminska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u123	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Despite the laws and regulations to eliminate the sight of garbage in the woods, the problem continues. Garbage is exported to the woods and often buried underground. But, Minister, there are also very good examples of countries that are at the forefront of waste management. These are mainly Scandinavian countries, e.g. Sweden, Denmark, the Netherlands. Most of these solutions, e.g. apply Swedes, can be applied relatively quickly and simply also in Poland. 45% waste produced in Sweden is used for recycling. How much waste produced in Poland do we use for this purpose? This is a very low percentage. So I have a question: What changes in legislation will be applied by the Ministry to eliminate illegal landfills? What elements of the legislation of these countries, which are at the forefront in terms of waste management and management, will also be used in our legislation? And is the records you spoke of electronically kept here the only correct and effective solution to eliminate illegal landfills? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What education programmes do we have on waste segregation? Because this is what our awareness of environmental protection and waste management begins with education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u124	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Maciejewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u125	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It would seem that, from a large number of good laws, good regulations should be better, and today the topic clearly shows that it is the opposite, that the more laws they were supposed to regulate, the more regulations they were supposed to straighten out, the more paradoxically illegal landfills of garbage, and not those created by individuals and those created by business. And here actually, there's a question and a doubt. Minister, have you considered that there's some kind of system error, some lack of coordination? There's something at the root of the problem. On the example of the municipality of Prostka, near Ełku: There is a private area where no longer existing company was storing waste, but stored it there. The Starosta knows this, but he can't take it away because it's private property, private property, market value property, and it's really lying. Everyone knows it, everybody sees it, nobody does anything, and everyone can't help breaking their hands. So, Minister, the question is, isn't it a problem that we have laws today, structures, offices, inspectors, and yet we still have garbage? There's something wrong with that, Minister. I ask for concrete proposals to solve this problem so that we do not have wild landfills and can talk about the real order in our nature. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Anczynski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u127	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Is it true that in the current waste management it is not required that the waste transfer card accompany the waste transport and be shown by the driver during transport to the relevant services? According to the proposed law, which will be considered after this point, a completed waste transfer card will be stored by the entity in BDO, a waste database, with the possibility of editing and printing. At the time of acceptance by the transferor, the waste transfer card will be formally traded, which means that both the transporter and the receiving waste will have access to the document. In the case of editing the waste transfer card resulting from external factors - precipitation, drought - and recording these changes in the BDO by accepting the waste transferor will receive information from the system about changes to the waste transfer card. Once accepted, this card will become final. Finally, I would like to say that such far-reaching changes will result in greater transparency in the functioning of waste management. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u128	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Margaret Płępek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to refer to the situation of residents and local authorities in the south of Poland, where most apartments do not have the possibility of gas burning. Apartments are traditionally sunburned - mainly with coal. In municipalities e.g. Almost 1/4 of the waste is ashes in the Żywiec region. On a yearly basis, this may sometimes give up to 150 kg per capita. The municipalities emit ash as separate waste, the inhabitants place it in special containers. Unfortunately, such waste can no longer be processed. Now it's not cheap, because it costs 120 PLN for 1 t, and it'll be even more expensive. Next year, the rate will rise to PLN 170, and from 2020 it will reach as much as PLN 270, as the Regulation states. Self-governments are not able to make up for everything, because they are already adding huge funds to water or sewage. Therefore, they will have to raise the charges significantly for residents. Please explain: Why so drastic increases in the price for storage of ashes in landfills in the following years? Can this be modified to make it cheaper, not so expensive and very cumbersome [[♪ The bell ♪]] For self-governments? What solution do you have in this regard, and what will be done? Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u130	Thank you. Mrs Elżbieta Zielińska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u131	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have some questions relating to what Mr Piontkowski said, which is what is happening, apart from the bill, because the problem is much more complex. I wanted to know if there were any plans for the fight against this waste crime that really is already the size of organised crime. In the Gorlice, we have illegally stored toxic waste, which threatens to cause an environmental bomb. They are stored on the premises of the former Glimar refinery. For several months the city, Members and the social side have been trying to do anything about this problem. I've reported a problem several times at the State's Attorney's Office, requesting national oversight of the investigation. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, I have reported to every possible service, because most likely these wastes come from Germany, and in Poland they are illegal in terms of the acids that were discovered there. The landlord just laughs in the face. He paid $20,000, got out of jail, and the people of Gorlic are afraid to open up because they have suspicions that they are people who are connected not only to this trash mafia, but also previously related to the fuel mafia, which led to the collapse of the Glimar refinery. I have questions about the minister's cooperation with other resorts, with the Ministry of Home Affairs, with the Ministry of Justice. What are the plans to enrich the various services with tools, [[♪ The bell ♪]] To fight the mob? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u132	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Mark Polak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u133	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The European Commission has confirmed that Poland has fulfilled the initial conditions for waste management, which opens the way for us to use EUR 1.3 billion in waste management investments from the Operational Programme. However, the condition for their use is the implementation by local authorities of a selective collection of waste, consisting of four factions. Let me remind you, the first is paper, the second is glass, the third is metals and plastics, the fourth is biodegradable waste. In the meantime, it's $2,000. The municipalities around 440 receive waste on the basis of three factions and about 180 on the basis of two. That is why I wanted to ask: What are the chances of using these funds in such a reality and how does the government intend to mobilise local governments to comply with the requirements of the European Union? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u134	Thank you, sir. Mr Józef Lassota, please take the floor. There's no envoy. This is Mr Marek Jakubiak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u135	Mr. Marshal! Good morning, hello to the Ministry's representatives. Ladies and gentlemen, I am about a beautiful village called Biskupiec, located near Olsztyn. There, for over a year, the local population has been struggling with the mayor to ensure that there is no garbage incinerator in this beautiful area. The mayor said, "Okay, there will be no garbage incinerator, there will be a wood processing plant. It was about some Austrian company making chipboards, and we have a miracle inside, and in the middle of that plant, what? It's a trash incinerator. You just have to fight such political smartness. The CBA is already involved in the case, it initiated an investigation into this case, because the various connotations are unclear there, but the Ministry of Environment is silent in this regard. I would very much like to involve you in this matter, because it is worth fighting for these small, ecological parts. Let's not make a dump out of Poland. Poland must be considered a country of organic food and fresh air in Europe. If we lose it too, we're going to lose everything, because the industry is already, let me remind you, we don't have it. I'm not gonna make it, and I just wanted to talk about the backpacks. The issue of returnable packaging is neglected, and this is the most ecological approach to the food industry. Producers must be aware, but also of the material benefit of investing in return packaging. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u136	Thank you, sir. Mr Jerzy Gosievski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u137	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, The problem of waste dumped in the woods was and is. The situation in this area is improving very slowly, although the changing law should already be effective in this matter. Local governments are already owners of garbage streams, and local governments are responsible for maintaining cleanliness and order in municipalities. City and forest guards detect the actions of the perpetrators who are being punished and must clean up after themselves. The state forests spend several million zlotys annually on forest cleaning, from which they export more than 100,000 each year. m3 trash. For that amount, you could put over 2,000 in jail. ha forests. In addition to failing to comply with the statutory obligation, the cause of littering on roads and forests is, in my opinion, a lack of proper education at home, kindergarten and school. For example, it is easier for parents to pick up their children's trash alone than to force them to pick up the trash themselves. Minister! What does the government intend to do to make roads and forests no longer a place to dump garbage? Are parents and teachers planned to be properly raised by their children and young people? What action are we planning to take to force local governments to comply with the statutory obligation to maintain cleanliness [[♪ The bell ♪]] And order in the commune? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u138	Thank you, sir. Mr Marek Rząsa.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Podkarpackie local authorities asked me to make a request for the Ministry to examine the provisions of the article. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7 and 8 Waste Law prohibiting the treatment and import into the region of municipal waste management generated outside the region and the provisions of Article. 6d paragraph. 1 Law on the maintenance of cleanliness and order in municipalities ordering the organisation of public procurement procedures for the management of municipal waste. This is primarily due to the concern for the proper functioning of the municipal waste management system, which is financed by the fees of local authorities. The above-mentioned legislation leads to a situation in which, where there is one municipal waste treatment facility in the waste management region, it is a monopoly with all the negative consequences of the rates for the management of municipal waste, and where there are two, it creates ideal conditions for the creation of the so-called. price collation, which also adversely affects the level of the rates. Often, a municipality at the border of a region which has a closer facility for waste treatment in another region is doomed to the prices of installations from its region proposed in a quasi-professional procedure which, in the event of the existence of one or two economic operators, contradicts market rules. This, of course, increases the costs of the waste management system and consequently increases the rates of charges for residents for waste management. Does the Ministry have any way of colluding the price of the processing installation operators [[♪ The bell ♪]] municipal waste? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u140	Thank you. Mr Paweł Szramka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I wanted to ask you what costs you incurred in putting out fires in respect of waste or illegal landfills. How many cases were there last year? And, to put it simply: At what stage is the Polish government currently fighting the trash mafia? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u142	Please, Mrs Barbara Dziuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u143	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the Ministry of Environmental Protection for taking action to dismantle environmental bombs. A week ago, we had a visit to the former chemical plant in Tarnowskie Góry. The problem is not only Tarnowskie Góra, but also other regions in Poland, that some of these toxic waste belongs to private individuals. The fact is that these areas were purchased under unclear circumstances, but for a specific purpose - to do so. business. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I have a question for you. Does the Ministry provide for a change in the Real Estate Act so that these areas with past events can be expropriated with these landfills or, at minimum costs, pay compensation so that the social well-being, the overriding good of health and life is taken into account? You can't allow garbage to kill our children. Minister, I've prepared such a small record of the amendment. I am available and I think that together we can dismantle all environmental bombs in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u144	Thank you. And there you go, Mrs Zofia Czernow.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I, too, wanted to join those voices that talked about environmental bombs. I want to present a concrete example, namely the municipality of Bogatynia. The municipality of Bogatynia is located at the confluence of three borders: Poland, Germany and the Czech Republic. In the area of the municipality there is a brown coal mine, as well as the Turów Power Plant. However, the most important problem that concerns this municipality is the landfill of toxic waste, so-called. The worst factions. Revita, which ran a landfill in the municipality of Bogatynia, did not only collect 40 thousand. t waste which is not suitable for further treatment, has still ceased its activities and has not responded to any calls for further use of the waste. So there's no company, there's no trash left, and there's a ticking environmental bomb that's dangerous for the locals. There's been a case on the D.A.'s office for over a year, but nothing's happening yet. Therefore, I think that the rules should be designed to prevent the creation of such great, [[♪ The bell ♪]] hazardous landfills. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u146	Thank you, Member. And Mr Paweł Skutecki, I ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u147	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! We're talking about environmental bombs today. These are bombs that are actually blowing up. In Bydgoszcz we have an area after the former Zachem Chemical Works, where there is a landfill of ultra-dangerous, ultra-toxic waste. Today, these wastes go not only to the Vistula with groundwater, but also to the inhabitants of such neighborhoods as. Blind or cold water. These people can really have very serious problems about it any minute now. Literally a few days ago, the Regional Environmental Inspector filed a notice to the DA about the possibility of committing a crime because he was prevented from carrying out an inspection in this area. Minister! It is currently the case that in one place, in one area several companies may receive decisions, permissions for the same activity. This provision of the Act allows for apparent abuse, which, as you can see, we are dealing with. They are most often companies, so-called. column companies, no financial security. In Bydgoszcz we are dealing with a company registered somewhere in a private apartment in a block in another city. The violation of the terms of the decision by one entity and the withdrawal of its authorisation do not prevent further waste and toxic substances from being stored in the same place, because the other company has a valid permit at the same location. Is the Ministry planning [[♪ The bell ♪]] changes in this area? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u148	Please, Mr Krzysztof Głuchowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u149	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! Are legal regulations planned to improve the recycling of glass bottles and other glass packaging? The glass packaging system in Poland is inefficient. On the basis of the collection of the deposit, it is possible to hand over only certain bottles at the places where they are purchased. The leaders in the use of return bottles are Denmark, Finland, Norway and the Netherlands. There consumers pay more than 70% packaging. In the Czech Republic, Austria and Slovakia, bottles machines were distributed. One bottle goes between the manufacturer and the customer 20 to 40 times. In Poland it is seven, eight times. It is also important to protect a client who often does not voluntarily give up his bail. The industry press reports that there are 400 million beer-back glass containers circulating in Poland. If their status were changed to one-off, 600,000 would be created annually. t additional waste, and the mills would have to recycle it for 2 years. This indicates the scale of the phenomenon, and apart from these types of bottles, they are different. Is the government, including the Ministry of Environmental Protection, dealing with the problem and considering the possibility of applying solutions from countries that have dealt with this issue in Poland? Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u150	Thank you very much. Mrs Jolanta Hibner, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Waste management is one of the areas for which we have excellent discernment, both in Europe... We have very good examples. This isn't a field that we've had since yesterday, to which we have to try out in some way, which we have to train, check out. Yesterday, at the committee meeting, the Minister presented a new draft regulation to remedy the situation of combating illegal landfills. There are to be new methods related to the waste transfer card. It is to monitor imports, to monitor the storage, reception - all the things that will absolutely protect us against illegalness and landfills of waste, both municipal and dangerous. I have a question and a little bit of concern. Why didn't the Ministry take advantage of other people's experiences? We have Austria - an excellent system - we have Switzerland, Sweden. Why are we creating new records that will be tested? Because you said yesterday that she was gonna test this system, how we're gonna do it. It's gonna be all... This card will be passed right through the IT systems. Everything's nice, but why don't we take advantage of other people's experiences? Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u152	Thank you. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u153	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My question is: How much money did the state spend on transporting waste that was lit or destroyed and previously abandoned by dishonest entrepreneurs? Whether the division of competences and sources of financing of waste disposal costs due to their state between the governor and the voivodship environmental fund does not result in the fact that not only criminals, but also district governments may have an interest in making waste e.g. They've been burned? Burnt trash and extinguishing fires are an additional cost - fire department - which is borne by the state, not to mention the additional damage to the air. One more thing. We've heard about these environmental bombs here today. I live on Koszalin soil. The troops of the former Soviet Union were stationed there, and now we have a problem: these bombs - and we don't know what else - are still in the ground, and unfortunately the cost of this is borne by society. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u154	Thank you very much. Mrs Bernadette Krynick, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a few questions. Namely, how many municipalities have so far decided to receive municipal waste by their own companies using the Act of April 2016? Has this led to significant changes in the market for companies receiving municipal waste and caused a disruption of this market as the opposition frightened us? Another question: In how many local governments do external companies receive waste? And last question: Are there any statutory changes in the in-house area planned? Because it is a constant demand of local governments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u156	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u157	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, do you encourage the quantity and quality of garbage that come to Poland from other European countries? What amounts of garbage came to Poland from abroad last year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u158	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Weber, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Maybe I'll ask a question in a different spirit than most of you. I will give a model example of the exemplary conduct of municipal waste management policy, which is conducted by one of the cities in Poland. I hope there are more such cities in our country. It is about the city of Stalowa Wola, where not for 4 years, since the start of the municipal waste management law, but about 10 years ago a very efficient model of municipal waste management was developed. In Stalowa Wola, with the participation of local government, with the participation of the Municipal Municipal Institution, but mostly thanks to the residents, waste segregation is at a very high level and this affects a very low garbage charge. At the moment it is 6 PLN per person, and there were months in which residents of Stalowa Wola paid 4.5 PLN per person. There's a way to lower that fee. We would have to put in place a system of charging depending on the weight in Stalowa Wola. I know that at the moment such a system does not exist in the law, and there is a question to the ministry: What is the position on the possibility of introducing a weight-based trash billing system? I know that there are discussions whether it would not then cause an even greater influx of illegal garbage into the forests and elsewhere, but I have confidence in the residents of Stalowa Wola, the city authorities have confidence in the inhabitants of Stalowa Wola and we would like to [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's the kind of system we're gonna put in. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz,15 has the floor. There's no envoy. Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u161	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! It turns out that illegal landfills, illegal waste shipments are a major problem, and this debate is very pictured. I wanted to start by thanking you for everything the Minister has done so far on these hazardous waste exported to the former Glimar refinery in Gorlice. I'm asking you to continue monitoring so this case doesn't slip away. It is also a matter of changing the rules that we have been talking about, because the case has been appalling since June, and since August the Ministry has also been strongly involved in this. Thank you so much for that. But Gorlice's got some bad luck. This illegal waste, this hazardous waste in the former refinery is not the only problem. Now the inhabitants are occupied by something else, too, very shocking. We have a company that sells garbage. It's just hard to get across the neighborhood of this company, it's hard for people to live there, it's a horrible smell. There were fires, threats to neighboring buildings. The companies are moving out of there. And now, on 27 October 2017, this company received a decision of the old age allowing the construction of a thermal conversion installation with energy recovery. Starosta approved the construction project, granted permission to build an incinerator. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The people are protesting. Please, I ask for your help on behalf of the residents. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u162	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, Kukiz, 15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u163	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Many municipalities have launched so-called as part of their capacity. regional municipal waste treatment facilities. They are not fully used and, at the same time, the starosts issue permits to companies for the storage, treatment and segregation of waste. And now the question is, if you had found the means, the incentives for the municipalities, it would not have finally turned out that at least the municipalities would benefit from these profits and not, I'll be honest with you, the mafia? Because I don't think there's any doubt that criminal structures play a huge role in waste management in our country. I have two more questions: What is the government's position on the new law on the ban on fur animals? Because the accident ban on this farm will be a lot of waste, which so far is used by these farms. Now all of a sudden, you're gonna have to burn them. And why would one of the German companies benefit from this? And the third question, and in principle, an incentive for the Minister to look through the prospect of garbage on the city of Bytom, where there is a big action going on, is not a hasiok, and on December 3, he refers there. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in a presidential referendum that doesn't do anything about the garbage problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u164	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The existing rules require producers and operators placing certain goods on the market to bear costs for the collection and treatment of waste. In 2017, manufacturers e.g. grocery products or economic chemistry will pay PLN 7 in Poland for collecting and processing 1 t of plastic waste, e.g. PET bottles. 1 t consists of as much as 30,000. These bottles. In 2002, this fee amounted to PLN 1200. Manufacturers and distributors of electronic equipment will pay around EUR 5 At first glance it would seem very good that it is so cheap for us, while it is so expensive there, but it is not really a happy situation, because Polish entrepreneurs involved in waste management say that such a financing system is simply bad and inefficient and so-called activities. The recovery organisation where the money goes often has a paper, fictional character. I have a question: Is the Ministry planning to change this and wouldn't it translate in practice into a reduction in the prices of household waste collection? Thank you very much. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u166	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15. There's no envoy. Mrs Ewa Malik, Law and Justice have the floor. You don't have an MP either. Mr Dariusz Kubiak, Law and Justice, is he? Come on in. There isn't any either. Mr Jan Kilian, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u167	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The management of municipal waste is still a difficult topic for many countries, including Poland. Due to new waste disposal technologies, new problems have arisen with the disposal of slag and dust derivatives, adsorbers from gas rinsing. We already know that storing them in special storage sites does not solve the problem, even creating new ones. These materials contain a mass of harmful substances. Minister, are new solutions to these important problems currently being proposed? How do we develop ashes and slags? Are ashes and slags used in road transport? And if so, how common is that? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u168	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice. There isn't. Mr Antoni Duda, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The European Commission has confirmed that Poland fulfils the preliminary conditions in the field of waste management, and we will be able to use around EUR 1.3 billion for investments in waste management. It is also a prerequisite for EU support for local authorities to implement without delay a selective collection system which has been in force since July and requires segregation by four fractions: paper, glass, metals and plastics and biowaste. The Sejm is proceding a government bill amending the waste bill, by the way. How does the government assess the state of preparation of local governments to implement the required system in terms of organizational and financial terms? So far, about 1.4 municipalities for this 2.5 thousand. in Poland already separates waste into four fractions. Does the government provide for possible intervention in the implementation of the system in the event of an expected delay that would prevent compliance with the requirements within a fixed period of time, i.e. until 30 June 2021? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u170	Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u171	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Environmental education activities are an important part of the implementation of waste management plans, including in particular selective waste collection schemes. Environmental education is a necessary condition for the effective introduction of selective waste collection. Developing good ecological attitudes in children and adolescents is easier than changing bad habits in adults. Using the knowledge acquired by young people, adult behavior can be changed indirectly. We still have a lot to do in this regard. How does the Ministry plan to improve the education system for proper waste segregation? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u172	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u173	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for you. I'm going to refer to a specific local example. In the Bank, Olszance, Pogorzeli, the Domanians at the beginning of this year revealed a collection of chemicals, about which it was not known who was to remove them. The situation was all the more appalling because these chemicals were also stored on the island of Kêpa Młyńska, which is directly adjacent to the river Oder, and I will remind you that the Beach is in the vicinity of the river Odra in front of the city of Wroclaw. So if these chemicals got into the Oder, fear to think about what a sanitary disaster would be in Wrocław itself. So I ask - fortunately this situation has been resolved - why there are no effective solutions so far. For a few or several weeks, there has been an exchange of letters between the prosecutor's office, organisations or institutions that care about the environment and local government. Why is there no such model - and if it is, it is apparently inefficient and not used - where the waste producer is responsible for the waste until it is completely disposed of? Because it is often the case that garbage - most often from Germany or even Western Europe - is imported to Poland. Western European producers are not obliged to take responsibility for this trash, so with the time they cross the Polish border they are rid of the problem and we are poisoning ourselves. Please answer the question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u174	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Duszek, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Let's not make garbage dumps from Poland, as one of my previous speakers said. The problem of waste, both in legal and illegal landfills, spends sleep from the eyelids of many local authorities. So I have a few questions. Why does this management, most often single-person, determine the price and location of waste management in the case of private municipal waste management facilities, and the municipality under the law is obliged to accept the determined price and place? Is it necessary to fill landfills with an insulation green belt 500 m away? Are green belts applied to plans and environmental decisions verified, compared to the facts? Are the facilities which store or process waste and were erected in the 1990s or later controlled, whether they meet all technological requirements and environmental standards and do they endanger the neighbouring areas? What is the minimum distance from households in which landfills may be located? This is part of the questions that have emerged, among others. after discussions and debates with residents of Radzyń Podlaski commune about the landfill to be expanded there. Mr. Wiesław Mazurek is the head of this commune, which means the general of the same name as the Minister. I hope that the Minister, answering a few of our questions, will be able to resolve some of our doubts and answer these questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u176	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Oldakowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, The system of depositing non-refundable packaging, mainly cans and plastic bottles, is valid in other countries, among others. in Germany since 2003 the system that has been operating for years has become an effective solution. As a general rule, mandatory deposit for non-refundable packaging has proved to be an instrument of effective environmental protection. The introduction of a system of depositing packaging in Poland could effectively reduce the phenomenon of littering with cans and bottles of forests, parks and other public places. First of all, it can be a way of saving on exports and recycling the most burdensome waste. In the neighbouring country, the return of used bottles is made without problems by the introduction of vending machines in supermarkets that are used to throw in bottles. So I ask the question, Minister: Is there a prospect of introducing regulations and implementing a system in Poland concerning the bail-out of non-refundable packages? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u178	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are illegal landfills in my constituency, i.e. where waste is stored harmful to the environment without an appropriate authorisation. The cessation of the activities of the operators is difficult because the courts suspend the enforcement of the decision at the request of the complainant. The result is that the activity is carried out until the decision of the Voivodship Administrative Court has been issued and the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court has become valid, and most often until the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court has been given. Therefore, I have a question: Is it possible to expect a change in the law in this respect so that such extension is not possible to maintain illegal landfills? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u180	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Puda, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u181	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, The waste problem is not a new problem, it has always existed, but we hope to solve it as soon as possible. There's no way to predict such a problem, but it can be cleverly planned. And that's why I'd like to ask you a few questions. Firstly, will the change in the classification of the ashes from group 10 to group 20, resulting in an increase in the environmental charge, result in a significant additional burden on the residents? Secondly, when will the real responsibility of businesses for the collection and recycling of packaging waste be introduced? Currently, entrepreneurs pay around PLN 8 per 1 t for plastic, and in neighbouring countries EUR 100.500. When will the phenomenon of illegal landfills be eliminated? Separation of tenders for the collection and management of waste may be a way of doing so. And last question: What are the social and environmental impacts of the ban on the storage of calorie waste, i.e. The ones with calories above 6 MJ/kg? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u182	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Malik, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u183	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Waste management is a department of the state economy, which is currently struggling with enormous, even global tasks to solve. Of course, the issue of combating illegal landfills is a first step among these cases. It is actually a plague of all our Polish towns, but in my district, in Dąbrowa Górnicza, this problem has been dominant for years. A few years ago, as you heard, from the front pages of the newspapers we learned how to Poland, to the district of Strzemieszyce in Dąbrowa Górnicza flows a large container ship with chemical waste. At that time, this ship was able to turn back thanks to the intervention of local media, the Association of Self-Government Strzemieszyce, also thanks to Members. Unfortunately, this problem is haunted by industrialized Mining Dąbrowa. As local media alarmed, toxic waste was discovered again in Strzemieszyce in the area belonging to the PKP and leased by the Krakow company, which, as it turns out, does not have any permits for landfilling waste. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: What current actions, as well as legislative measures, are taken by your department to eliminate such phenomena, which are terrifying to the local population? Why the Law [[♪ The bell ♪]] Isn't clean and clean in the municipalities with the expected effects in the fight against illegal landfills? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u184	Thank you very much. Thank you for all your speeches and questions. Now I ask that the representative of the applicants be heard by Mrs Agnieszka Chasing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased about all these registers and all the legal solutions that you have been working on for two years, electronic registers and invoices. But I'll give you a brief summary of how the mob works in Poland and why it works. First of all, do you know - and answer these questions - that there is no provision that will prevent old age from being given in one place to three or four companies, and these are most often the same companies, consent to the same activity? Once you make one decision, you get a second company, and then it goes on. That's one thing. Secondly, there is no provision - if one company is being prosecuted in one municipality precisely for violation of the law, it gets the second permit in the other municipality. That's how these companies work, that's how these poles work. Thirdly, do you know that in Poland at the moment it is most profitable to burn all these illegal landfills or legal landfills? Because the distinction between the owner, that is, the entity who pays for the transport of the trash, is that - if the trash are stored illegally, the municipality pays if the trash is stored contrary to the decision issued by the governor, the governor pays for the export of the trash, and if it is burned, it pays the state budget, that is, the environmental fund. Tell me how many people are interested in getting this trash burned. That's the absolute basis, and that's what needs to be dealt with. There is no penalization in the case of companies or people who appear all over Poland exactly in these companies and translate from one place to another and carry this garbage. That's how the mob works, that's what you do. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u186	Thank you, Member. I would like an answer from the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Mr Sławomir Mazurka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The debate has shown how important and important waste is. Sorry, I didn't greet the guests. I am very pleased that young people are listening to our debate because this is a very important issue for them. I understand that things related to environmental protection are close to you, which is why I welcome and cordially greet you. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, am very pleased that this debate is taking place at a particular time, because we now have a week to combat waste. This is a European time in which we all focus on how to better implement waste management activities. At the beginning, I will try to refer to the words of the Member who focused her attention on a law which is not the responsibility of the Minister of the Environment, namely the Economic Freedom Act. In the area of collective responsibility, Minister Warchoł organised a very good conference, and I know that he is preparing legislation that will help fight to ensure that the collective responsibility of such entities is enforced. We, on the basis of those records that are already there, did not take any action because they do not function, we need to increase this area of responsibility. We are fighting against the lack of a very broad sense of responsibility. Questions about what is in the authority of the Minister of the Environment are the easiest to answer, but I feel this responsibility in those areas that you mentioned. I would like to say that we work very closely with ministers, not only on the occasion of the Demoted Land Team, but also on other occasions. The first thing we've done, what every person who's responsible and managing a department of the economy is taking responsibility... It was crucial to identify the biggest problems in waste management. This is the balance we have done and consistently we are doing it. The first issue is the question of competence, the way in which the responsibility for waste management is carried out; it is largely on the part of local authorities. And very different, depending on local governments, it looks like, and Stalowa Wola is an example that you can. But we're in Warsaw and let's see, really only 4% what is sorted or divided, because it is not divided into material fractions, it is suitable for recycling. These are not data from the Ministry of the Environment, but data from Europe. This responsibility of local governments is very important, which is why, seeing this need, we will not only be as we have done... One of the first legislative actions we took was to strengthen the in-house mechanism so that local governments could commission their entities without a tender. This is a very important tool, which was lacking in this amendment, which introduced the so-called. A trash revolution. I'm against any revolution at all. Last night, about an hour. 2 I witnessed a debate on the Bolshevik Revolution. In general, law, legal order likes certain evolutions, especially in the area of waste management. We have implemented actions resulting from ex ante conditionality, so we have introduced a regulation on selective collection of waste, in Poland as a whole it is harmonised, which will give us that we are implementing, and here I refer to what is the largest important locomotive in this area, i.e. the economy of closed circulation. Action on waste management is linked to the fact that it is a section that regulates as many as six European directives, which will be amended, which are currently in the negotiation stage, and we will have to implement them in a moment. But this is also an opportunity, always such a big challenge is an opportunity, because within this framework there is such an element as extended producer responsibility and it will create a basis for discussion to show those places where they work, there are legal gaps. We've been diagnosed to consistently eliminate them. There was a question about illegal landfills. When it comes to illegal landfills or waste dumps, there is no need to examine their morphology, they need to be disposed of immediately. I witness it, I see it on the border of Brewinów and Milanówka, very often in such a zone of no one's various kinds of waste is abandoned, but these are demolition waste, municipal waste, which spoil the landscape, they look bad. The major challenge we face is the waste from which waste causes soil degradation, soil quality changes. These drains go into the groundwater and pose a serious challenge. In such situations, these facilities are also monitored from this angle. The question that has arisen here, the question of Bydgoszcz, the question of Zach - this case is the subject of an analysis of the Demoted Land Team, so that appropriate solutions can be proposed to make it possible. Of course, a very important element, we will be discussing it in a moment, is the amendment of the Waste Act in which we introduce an electronic system. In fact, it's a novelty to track the mass of waste, because aggregate cards made them enter once a month... There was no obligation to hold multi-cards, which causes a number of pathology. Of course, we work very closely with other actors such as the police, such as the prosecutor's office, for which I am also grateful to my fellow ministers that they show such openness to our requests, whether at the training stage of prosecutors, whether at the training stage of other entities that do this, the police, but also cooperation... Ladies and gentlemen! When the trucks from Warsaw drove to fill the excavation with inert waste, there was one truck with municipal waste that shouldn't go there. When the inspectors stopped them, the truck left. When they came in the next day with the police - see what impudence, so that even though they were caught red-handed earlier, the second day repeats this case - already with the police managed to stop the driver, there are actions initiated by the prosecution to impose appropriate penalties. Here is the need - from this conclusion - to strengthen the Environmental Inspection, but when the Minister of Environment takes action or inspection takes analytical action to prepare a good project that will actually strengthen the inspection, show all these indicators, collect relevant data, you will read in the newspaper, on Monday's edition of one of the newspapers, that inspectors will knock at hours. 6:00 a.m. And who does that headline serve? Who does it serve to scare another servant like one of the covers of this week, the minister? That's not the point. These services are intended to be services that serve citizens, to combat such pathologies, because, as this debate shows, there is a need to strengthen the Environmental Protection Inspections. When such a project comes to the Minister of the Environment, it will certainly be the subject of extensive consultation. This experience, which we have thanks to the work of inspectors, shows that strengthening inspection is needed. What happened recently or in the last eight years? $500,000 was taken. from the Environment Inspection Salary Fund. We don't know any mechanism to strengthen the Environmental Protection Inspection. I hate to say it, but I did. We want to change this so that the inspection can carry out its tasks in full, but I am waiting for this project that will come to the Minister from the inspection, so that he is well prepared to avoid it, which is a firm response to this type of misinformation in this area, because we want to serve citizens, not act in such a way that someone has a sense of... If anyone's gonna have a sense of danger, there's been a trash mob around here a couple of times. All those who work in collusion are breaking the rules. Even though there is a great lack of responsibility here, I will never lack determination in this area. Despite the different situations that face me personally, I will be firm here and in cooperation with all the services that have the tools for doing so, we will act. Of course, we also have a change in this law on order and cleanliness in the municipalities, the separation of tenders. We are in constant contact with local governments, which we also want to help, but I say: there are very different local governments, we have Stalowa Wola and we have other local governments that I do not even want to mention here so that they can work effectively, but we need a number of these pathologies, such regulations that cause some gaps, remove. Finally, I would like to say to you that here there were still examples of other countries, this model abroad, how it does abroad. It is worth following, but it is also worth remembering that it is very difficult to compare countries, because they too very They count differently, they have different models of counting certain solutions, even in terms of recycling. There's an example of MBP. This is a German example, which means that we do not separate at source. From this we move towards the full use of raw materials, for the circular economy, for selective collection at source. And that's important, too. A series of laws, a big waste package project will also be another opportunity. Thank you very much to all Members for presenting this subject so widely. I'm sure we'll be very determined. [[♪ The bell ♪]] fight all the pathologies that are in this area. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u188	Thank you, Minister. This statement concludes the examination of this item on the agenda, the point for which we thank the Kukiz Club15 and Agnieszka Chasing very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u189	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The construction of modern waste incineration plant in Rzeszów is carried out in Rzeszów. The general contractor of the investment is Termomeccanica Ecologia and Astadi, which submitted in the tender the lowest amount, amounting to about PLN 303 million net. In the electronic auction, the consortium declared the price of PLN 285 million net. The contract provides for the construction of a single technological line with an annual capacity of 100,000. t waste. The technology adopted for the implementation will be the incineration of waste on the classic grate, using a semi-dry exhaust aftertreatment method with non-catalytic reduction of nitrogen oxides. The installation will be the primary source of electricity and heat generation in the Rzeszów Power Plant. The representative of PGE GiEK announced that the installation will replace the currently working coal boilers, which will become peaks, working occasionally, only during periods of the highest heat demand in Rzeszów. It'll make the air in town cleaner. That's why I'm asking you a question. What are the previous experiences of the operation of similar incineration plants? Were similar incinerators at the construction stage accompanied by protests from a group of residents who opposed the construction of such installations? Do similar municipal waste incineration plants in Poland fulfil their function in symbiosis with residents?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u190	We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the Waste Act (prints No. 2014 and 2025). I ask Mr Dariusz Piontkowski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Commission, dealing with this draft law, has clearly seen the benefits that flow for the waste management system. There are new solutions to the waste card. Several editorial and legislative amendments have emerged. The Commission recommends adopting this draft law, believes that this law will solve some of the problems related to what we have just discussed during the current information, i.e. those irregularities which are related to waste management in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u192	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u193	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This law, as we discussed in the Environment Committee, concerns two elements. The first element is the implementation of EU law, several directives, which concern in particular hazardous waste, their transport, possibly the elimination of such waste, the hazardous waste clause, and then the road that these waste should go through. Since these directives should be implemented quite quickly, the draft law therefore provides for a 14-day vacathio legis so that these elements of the law enter into force as soon as possible so that we do not have problems with the institutions of the European Union. The second part of this law concerns this sealing of the waste management system, which I was just talking about. This is mainly about the database on products and packaging and waste management, i.e. the so-called. BDO. This base is to be built at the beginning of next year and is to be gradually expanded by further elements. This law will give the possibility to extend this base to include additional modules so that it covers a maximum range of information on waste. It will allow the waste to be recorded at virtually every stage of its existence - from the moment the waste manufacturer transmits it when the transport company receives it, transports it and transmits it to further processing. This electronic system will provide an opportunity to control how companies carry out their duties. You will be able to check the discrepancies between the declared activities of waste companies and what is the reality. Because it will happen almost in real time, because waste companies, when transporting waste, will have to have generated information in this waste transfer card at the start of transport, so that it is known at which point they are, then the receiving company will also have to confirm the collection of these waste, indicate their mass, will of course be possible corrections, because, for example, I do not know, excessive drought or rain or snow can cause an increase in this mass, and this will be possible to correct. But just the fact that two companies that work together in the treatment and transport of waste will have to confirm the same data will make it difficult to introduce fictional data. Fictitious data and fictitious waste trading were largely the cause of these negative phenomena which the Minister had just mentioned, which we discussed in this Chamber. They are the ones that are largely generating the so-called formation of the so-called. wild landfills, while at the same time being a form of unfair competition against those companies that have made large investments in waste sorting plants, waste treatment plants and react legally. This waste database will be administered in accordance with the provisions of the Act by the General Environmental Inspector. It was thought that this would be a chance to merge this data across the country, because there are also companies that operate not only in one voivodship or one city, but in several voivodships, and this was partly out of control by the marshals. Therefore, the additional responsibilities of the Environmental Inspection will increase, and therefore the bill provides for a slightly higher revenue from the registration fee, an annual fee, which has so far been split 50-50 between the Ministry and the State budget, so that these funds are more likely to be inspected. In addition, one person will be employed in each voivodship inspector, who will only supervise and control this waste base. We hope, because here I am talking about both the government and the Members, and I am thinking of all those who are interested in the state of environmental protection, that these electronic data collected in the waste database will enable real control of what is happening with the waste, will allow cross-checks and detection of these irregularities, which we talked about a few minutes ago, and also eliminate from the market at least parts of companies that behave unfairly in this market. Hence, the Law and Justice Club, of course, requests that this law be adopted and that it be implemented as soon as possible. These elements, the rules on the waste database are only to enter into force in accordance with the Act from January 2020, as we realise that it is time for companies to adapt to this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and to enter these waste databases. The club also proposes some amendments, mainly legislative ones, but also about what will happen to the voivodship's waste data. We'll take it as historical data. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u194	Thank you very much, sir. Time's up. Mr Stanisław Gawłowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We would like to say that the good intentions of hell are paved, but it must be assumed that this law has its weight not only in this part concerning the implementation of the two EU directives, but, above all, takes the initiative in the part concerning the sealing of the waste system. Is this gonna work? There are always doubts, including in this case. Because I understand that everything can be solved according to the idea of "F. Tracking, also tracking the waste, as the Minister said earlier. Only this system that's designed here will be expensive and expensive, Minister. And it doesn't matter if you say it's charging the taxpayer through the budgets of the municipalities - because it's a taxpayer. - whether it charges entrepreneurs, because in this system it must be equipped on the part of transport and export companies, and they will actually bear the costs associated with the implementation of this system. And it's not gonna happen, Minister, even if you're gonna swear a lot of reality, and somebody's gonna whisper something in your ear so that the municipalities want to add a little bit more money to the functioning of the system. And if it's an entrepreneur, the citizen will always pay for it at the end. That's just how it's gonna be and there's nothing to charm, there's nothing here in this room to cheat on. That, of course, is the question: how much? The Lord will be able to say later: but it is not us - as on the occasion of the fees, Water Law - that it is not us, it is these unfortunate municipalities who will raise the fees. You can add another regulator, another administration, another Pisiewicz, Misiewicz, who will be in employment and will check the prices associated with waste charges. That's the only part that won't work. It's better just to be honest: it costs, it costs, we move it into a system, and we don't fool ourselves. It's just fair. There's one thing I'm happy for you, Minister. I'm glad to hear you say that you were complaining about one of the newspapers that published on Monday that there would be changes to the Environmental Protection Inspection Act. Because your boss, Minister Szyszko, and your spokesperson strongly denied that any work in this section is being carried out. Luckily, you said they were, confirmed what this paper said was true, and this project is available, so there's nothing to be fooled. There's nothing to be nervous about, Minister, you've confirmed, so it's already in the transcript, and I don't think you're gonna be, I assume, erasing. Only if it's an idea that you're gonna build a little Cuban system that you're gonna control and control, then the taxpayer is gonna pay for all of this, but the system isn't a seal. Finally, Minister, it is easy to say, or actually my previous speaker so easily said, that this is a minor correction of the fact that greater tasks go to the Environmental Protection Inspection, and therefore we change the algorithm, the proportion of revenues from registration fees and annual fees. These proportions were actually 50 to 50, now it's gonna be 64,35 to 35,65. This lower value is on the side of the local government. I say this with regret, because local governments have a role to play, but if you don't respect local governments with this approach: what the hell, pay the municipal budget, and what the hell, we reduce local governments because the inspection will have bigger tasks, the construction of the state budget is that these revenues will go to the state budget rather than to the inspection. Whether they're gonna be there, it's kind of a separate story. If I were to be malicious, I would say that since Minister Morawiecki tells us that the budget is in such a great condition, for God's sake, I apologize for the word, you are taking money from local governments. All this together shows that with a good intention to seal the waste system unfortunately there are records that raise a number of doubts, records that cause that [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is difficult to support such decisions, especially since the declarations that are falling are not sincere. Minister, it is always worth trying, and in such a dimension we will support your attempts as well. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u196	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz Mrs Ewa Lieder, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u197	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The developer proposes the implementation of a database system on products and packaging and waste management, i.e. BDO, which aims to improve the control of waste management. The goal is among others. The fight against the gray zone. The obligation to amend is due to the entry into force of the 2015 Directive No 1127, the Commission Regulation and the Council Regulation. Consequently, we have the repeal of Annex 3 to the Waste Act in order to amend the definition of hazardous waste. Data on waste collection, recovery and recycling levels will also be included in this database system. If the system works properly, it will provide full information on waste management. In carrying out the inspection, an important role will be provided by the waste transfer card, which is currently to include the time limits for the start of transport and the transfer of waste between waste holders, the possibility of correcting the mass of waste transported and the registration numbers of waste vehicles. This is not just about hazardous waste. The original version of the project appeared in 2016. The explanatory memorandum of the project states that amendments must be made immediately because of the commitment to implement Union law and the possibility for the European Commission to refer the case to the Court of Justice. We are pleased that in this case it is taken seriously into account and that it is the will not to expose Poland to financial penalties, as unfortunately does the Minister of Environment Mr Jan Szyszko on the Białowieża Forest. In just a few days' consultation, concerns arose about a significant increase in costs for businesses resulting from a new way of recording waste based on the ICT system. As the designer assures, a basic smartphone or tablet device with Internet access is sufficient. It will be necessary to develop, among others. expensive qualified electronic signatures. However, these costs should not be significant enough for companies to suffer very badly. Given the trend towards digitalisation of data, changes in this direction seem inevitable. The consultation often raised the issue of the threat of suspension or lack of functionality of the base, which would lead to a complete blockage of the possibility for entrepreneurs to transfer waste. Therefore, the question arises as to whether sufficient analyses have been carried out - this is, of course, a very specific question - which would confirm the reliability of this system. It is crucial to maintain a suitable vacathio legis to enable companies to adapt their establishments to the new requirements. It is therefore necessary to provide information from the State so that companies have no problem adapting to this new system. The Modern Posel Club will vote in favour of further work on the project because we hope that the proposed changes will have a positive impact on the environment and on the quality of life of citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u198	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. Question time - one and a half minutes. Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u199	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Surely the bill we are discussing today is very much needed. The diagnosis presented in the explanatory memorandum is correct, because we are all seeing in many places in Poland an avalanche increase in the amount of waste thrown into the forests, in some places that are not used. This applies in particular to those wastes which are municipal waste. Some of the users of this waste operate on a completely fictitious basis, and this is where the problem arises. The changes introduced are intended to provide tools to improve the work of both Environmental Protection Inspections, Environmental Protection Authorities and Law Enforcement Authorities and Road Transport Inspections. And I have a question: If we see such a serious problem when we want to counteract these negative phenomena, is it really necessary to introduce such a long vacathio legis for this way of keeping waste records? These provisions will not apply until 1 January 2020. Wouldn't it be possible? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Did you do it earlier? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u200	Thank you. Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The work on the law, which is otherwise very necessary, has, of course, been accelerated by the EU directive. We are obliged to implement it. Very good. All clubs declare that they will work on such important matters. On the other hand... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u202	Excuse me, Member. Mrs Lenartowicz, would you please stop making a fuss here? I mean, you're making it impossible for your friend to come forward. We're gonna clear this up in a minute, okay? Now, please, calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u203	Thank you, Marshal. I'm sorry, but it's a little distracting. So, as we continue, of course we will be working on this bill. I have a question: Why regulations, which are already in part in Polish legislation, e.g. With respect to special waste, including medical waste, can't it be implemented faster? Why is it 2020? And the second point: Why do we try again to reach into the pocket of the local government, since local governments still have a lot of their own tasks? If voivodship is really concerned with waste management as a representative of the government, the costs should be evenly borne by producers and the state, whereas by local authorities only to the extent that they are possibly violating the rules on supervision of [[♪ The bell ♪]] waste disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u204	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Gawron, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u205	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It is good that the Ministry has dealt with the subject of waste and that regulations will be put in place to control, verify, record, will be a database. However, these are actions that will not solve this problem to the end. As for the fact that vacathio legis is so extended, in my opinion it is good, because it is probably the first time in history for such large projects, databases, electronic controls we will have to deal with the gradual, modular introduction of them. This can save us from certain mistakes that may happen in such cases. In my opinion, the problem of waste can actually be solved by more effective control and penalties, which, at the time of finding such deficiencies, we can measure if they are effective and severe. Unfortunately, there are mobs in this business that turn very big money around. If such measures, which will indeed have an effective dimension in terms of punishing those who break the rules or regulations, are not implemented, these provisions in the Act may not be sufficiently effective. So I'm asking you to do it again, because this is the kind of declaration that's already been made here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] all kinds of inspections and police have the power to verify this to a really large extent in financial terms. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u206	Thank you very much. Mrs Bernadette Krynick, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It should be stressed that the amendment of this law is necessary, necessary. I have questions, Minister, about this bill. Will the proposed amendment have an impact on the increase in export charges for solid impurities? The opposition is threatening these charges to rise, so this is a very important, important question. Will the amendment of this law contribute to sealing the waste management system so that illegal, wild landfills are not created? And one more question, Minister. What tools is there, and what additional legal instruments will the Environmental Protection Inspection be equipped with to control on the one hand the operators involved and on the other hand the transport of waste in Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u208	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u209	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For 1.5 hours we have talked about pathological cases in waste management, about wild landfills, and the voices that have just been falling, only confirm it, and on the other hand, please note that some Members representing large clubs in our Seym say that the state wants to control everything again, that it should be like Cuba. So we need to decide whether we want to at least try to cut back what is wrong with waste management, and therefore we need to expand the powers of the state by expanding this waste database, introducing as much data as possible in an electronic way as possible to verify what these companies are really doing, whether they are actually legally trying to manage waste, recover some of the raw materials, or simply transport them to places they shouldn't export to. Hence, these elements concerning the waste base are one of the most important instruments for combating the grey zone. If they can finally be introduced, we hope that this will allow a very serious reduction of irregularities. Some of you were afraid of additional inspection powers, which are not actually mentioned here because they mainly concern the waste database. I must make it clear that, in the sub-committee dealing with waste management, entrepreneurs themselves have repeatedly requested that environmental inspectors should at least be able to control without applying a 7-day deadline and inform businesses that such a check is to be carried out. So let's try to help the government fight this gray zone, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And let's not just do propaganda. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u210	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u211	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask you about the preparation of the waste database, because it should actually have been prepared for at least 2 years, while the tender for building the software for this base, which was started 2 years ago, was not successful and we do not know what has been happening since. I asked Minister Mazurko this question, but he replied that this base would now be based on agile programming style. However, this is a methodology where you have to have skilled programmers and teams. I ask, at what stage is the preparation of this base, since today we are adopting an extension of its scope. Even if it is implemented modularly, I ask what has been implemented since it is to be launched on 24 January 2018? Originally, the project provided for a shift of this deadline, which had disappeared, as the league says, at the request of the Prime Minister. I ask the Minister: At what stage is the actual creation of this base? If this is prepared in agile programming mode, then who have these modules been commissioned and in what mode, if we have not seen the tender, what competence are these people and which of these modules are ready when the base is to start operations in January? And one more question about confirming one thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We have just heard from Minister Mazurka that work is underway on a law that strengthens the powers of the Environmental Protection Inspection, while recently the Minister of the Environment denied that these work is ongoing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u212	Thank you, Member. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u213	I'm asking for an answer on this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u214	Mr. Marshal! Minister! You change the structure of revenue from registration fees and annual fees. Up to now, the local government had 50% , now he's going to have 35 revenue. Why? What's the scale of the depletion? What is the scale of the country's depletion? And then there's the second line. Due to the dramaticly fast procedure for proceeding over this law, you failed to explain in the committee a fundamental issue, namely whether the waste registration system will actually protect us from the waste after taking it from the property owners, because here we have learned that they will not be recorded before they reach the garbage dump, they will not go anywhere else. You have not been able to prove it in any way. I would ask the Minister to be kind enough to tell us how this will work and that this will protect us from the unreliability of waste collection companies. Those are the basic questions. And one more point. It is fortunate that this fairly complex recording system is due to start functioning in 2020, because there is still a long time, and it may be possible, through careful reflection and analysis, to remove the shortcomings of this law related to the complexity of the recording system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u215	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Mr Sławomir Mazurka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u216	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As regards questions that do not really directly concern the waste database, but concern the Environmental Protection Inspection, I would like to make it clear and repeat what you said to the Minister of Environment that the Ministry of the Environment is not working on a law that was mentioned in the article 10 years ago. We're not working on a bill like this. The Ministry of the Environment is considering every project notified which is the subject of government work, and it is only at this stage that we can talk about the projects being processed. The Environmental Protection Inspection is facing a number of problems. For eight years, the Environmental Protection Inspection has been weakened and nothing has been done, and another Minister has taken away 500,000. from the funds. Even today it is very difficult to hire people in the Environmental Protection Inspection at the current low rates. This causes the inspection to submit various proposals where it sees the greatest of its problems, but this is not a form of legal act that I could say is for me as a minister or undersecretary of state in the Ministry of the Environment a project that is the subject of the management of the department that I could talk about. But some forms of leaking, scaring... I don't know why you're so scared. Someone's scared of something, I don't know why. It seems to me that it is important to work out such solutions. Besides, it's no secret, because we say at committee meetings that we need to strengthen the inspection, we need to work on it. A conference was held at the National School of Public Administration with professors who pointed out some weaknesses in the inspection. And the analytical inspection is working in this area, and I would be delighted to inform you of the moment when the bill or any other act will be passed, which will strengthen the powers of environmental inspectors. Repeating what one of the newspapers wrote about is a bit of a misinformation. Next case. I would like to assure you of a lady who cares about Mrs Białowieża, who has mentioned penalties in the case of the Białowieża Forest, so briefly - and here I have said some untruths and I will try to straighten it out - that possible penalties relate to a situation where Poland would break its obligations under European law. [[Voice from the room: Broke.]] That's your opinion. In this case, however, the situation will be resolved by the Court. Don't scare the Poles here. There's no such danger. But I'm glad you feel that way about nature. I'm sure this will be of great use to us, because it's important to have an open heart on these issues. But this is a legal issue, not an emotional one. As for the state of work on the base, this is where the IT team works. We do not want to lead to a situation - I am also a member of the Committee of the Council of Ministers for Digitalization - in which building new IT systems is about buying cabinets, creating, duplicateing registers, causing a situation in which it is not functional, because that is not done now. There are modern technologies that can be used. There are new solutions. For such innovative solutions, modern ones will be made as much as possible in subsequent modules. Maybe that's where these questions come from. This new approach to IT projects - it is the agile method - gives us the opportunity to use, build the competences of the office, which each responsible person will be very useful, that they will not be dependent, which very often happened in IT projects, on keys, on access, on maintenance. Maintaining today's bases, which have marshals, is a dozen million zlotys, about 12 million zlotys, only in several voivodships in which a private company does it for these people. There are big, powerful money counting just in the millions of zlotys. So that's what this is about. One more thing, I would also refer to Mr Gawłowski's statement. Such a financial rule was already written down in 2012, so at this point we do not reach the state budget for some new funds, because we feel that every penny that is a penny of a taxpayer, a citizen, should be seen on both sides because it is so valuable. That is why we want to prepare this database with such diligence, and at the same time we want the time that it is, to be prepared. Of course, we would like to do this quickly, but proceding IT systems, if you do it this way, if you don't do pilots, if you don't do them this way, leads to everything that some law enforcement agencies do today when it comes to projects that have been done in this way. Closets were bought, and this was done even without the relevant regulations, legal acts. We just need to do it with a lot of meticulousness, so that it also serves to strengthen the inspection. We'll also strengthen the inspection. I'm sure we want to unload the local government and the marshals in some way. Very often it is said that you give a job, and you don't give money. We're taking the job with the money. That's what I'm going to say, if we're taking away the competences, they're also going to be used to strengthen the Environmental Protection Inspection, which has a number of other possibilities that create synergies within this system. In fact, and you've also noticed, if you've been following it closely, we even wanted this base to be launched in 2017. But according to the decision and ambition that the government has, so that entrepreneurs have time to prepare themselves so that local governments have time to learn how to test the best possible solutions, the registration module will actually be introduced from the beginning. So it's about the simplest registration model. Today, it's no longer a very complicated thing, but there's no need to introduce... We give you the possibility to use an electronic signature. See, today is a great opportunity to use it. This is the record that talks about using a trusted profile, which already many, more and more Poles have. So this is a form, a free thing that can be applied. So these best, latest solutions, also cloud solutions that are being tested, will be analyzed for use. We mean that this money really is counted with great care. We're aware of that. Thank you for paying attention, but that's how I can tell you that we're going to be so careful about this. Once again, we are referring to the financial rule and we are modifying the financial rule that was adopted in 2012 so that it also meets the latest requirements. The state that is sitting or entering the room will tell you that today applications have a number of possibilities to use electronic devices, to connect to databases. You don't need to buy an application that allows you to access databases. You're taking pictures now. or other things. There are some cloud solutions, aren't there? There is no need to buy software that would burden the memory of mobile devices that the state up there now holds in their hands. So here the code will be generated, there will be communication with the base, and even if at some stage there will be a modification, we will know who modified it, how it modified it, and what was the moment of modification. As regards the Member's concern that something might happen here, a number of entities are already accounting for the amount of waste that is being delivered. So waste dumps happen very often when there's a different form than quantitative. But at this time, which we have to adjust, we will also continue to work on the law on order and cleanliness in the municipality, as we talked about in the previous point. Waste management is six directives, a number of legal acts. We're all talking, we're mainly thinking about hazardous waste, because they're very troublesome, and we're all in contact with municipal waste. But there are batteries and batteries, used equipment, a number of other waste materials that need to... And mining waste, ladies and gentlemen, is a large part of the economy, which can also be used effectively as part of the idea of a circular economy to give added value to the economy, that is to say to all citizens. The more competent authorities are involved in this area, the less gray area will be. We'll have knowledge that we don't have very often today. When the check comes after 7 days, it can only find a warm printer. You won't have to print anything once the full functionality of the database has started. There will be QR codes, there will be other possibilities, because innovation is constantly emerging. A country that sits high there can confirm how often various types of applications are updated. We, too, will want to benefit from these latest, best solutions in the interest of the public pennies, as you have pointed out here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Mr Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: Bravo, Minister!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u217	Thank you, Minister. Now I ask the rapporteur of the committee of Dariusz Piontkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Two more elements need to be corrected. There was a voice here from one of the Members that we should wait until January 2020 or 2021 to bring EU law into line, I think she said. That's not true. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, your friend. Once again, it must be made clear that these provisions on the implementation of EU law are to enter within 14 days of the adoption of the law. And the second element that may have raised some doubts here. There's been a signal here that the Environmental Protection Inspection is about to get some extra powers. The only additional powers of inspection provided for by this law are simply the possibility of accessing the waste database. This makes it possible to control how waste management companies operate. There are no other additional powers except that it is possible to impose a penalty on traders who fail to comply with the obligations imposed by this law. On the other hand, it welcomes the fact that the clubs declare, as at the committee meeting, their willingness to adopt this law, because sometimes it happens that they support or cooperate at the committee meeting and then it is completely different in the parliament hall. It is therefore a joy that this desire to protect the environment is shared here. I hope that this bill will be adopted quickly at the Sejm meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u219	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u220	In some cases the implementation of EU law in Poland is beneficial for both the state and citizens themselves. This is the case with regard to the procedated amendment of the Waste Act. Its essence is that: 1. the possibility of any landfill of waste will be restricted; 2) will supervise the quantity and type of waste to be collected, transported and stored; 3) Perhaps as a result of this legislation the import of garbage from outside Poland will be limited and their landfills, incineration plants and waste treatment stations will be better supervised. If this law had been in force earlier, there would have been no such case that occurred in Wadowice, where the receiving municipal waste from the neighbouring municipality had stored it illegally in the city centre. About 300 t of garbage, which for more than two years lay in the square, was subject to atmospheric action, resulting in the stench, smear and feeding on rats. Of course, no one was responsible. The mayor of Klinowski took out the trash, and the prosecution - allegedly changed by the so-called. A good change - she discontinued the investigation, not even imposing a symbolic mandate on the perpetrator, not to mention the initiation of any criminal proceedings. To this day, as a result of the slowness of the Wadowice University, funds for the export and disposal of this garbage have not been recovered. An ordinary citizen for throwing out garbage can even be fined with a court order. Where's the equality between actors and the law? Another aspect of this legislation is the treatment of hazardous waste as dangerous goods and therefore subjecting it to regulations governing the transport of dangerous goods. This is very important because of the safety of road users. The issue of verification of compliance with the actual situation of waste holders was also very widely addressed. This possibility has been obtained by a number of actors - important that local government units, which care not only about collecting garbage from residents, but also about their well-being and safety due to the transport and storage of waste. Finally, an important issue, although giving rise to some legitimate concern about the effectiveness of environmental services, Road Transport Inspections and other bodies responsible for the safety of citizens. If the government diagnosis shows that the phenomenon of the so-called development is being observed. a grey zone in waste management activities in the country. In particular, it concerns problems in the management of municipal waste, where a number of pathological activities of entities receiving municipal waste from and processing property owners have been observed. Some operators practice fictitious treatment of mixed municipal waste, as a result of which more and more waste is abandoned in forests and excavations, why are there no consequences for those violating the rules? Or the diagnosis is based on conjecture. Moreover, the implementation of most of the statutory amendments, which were shifted to 1 January 2020, threatens to further degrade the environment and threaten the lives of people. These provisions relating to the keeping of waste records should apply as soon as possible or the relevant services should begin to perform their duties better. Club Kukiz'15 will vote in favour of this law, but it presents amendments to it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u221	The amendment of the Waste Act concerns several thematic blocks. Change - adapting the classification of waste as hazardous to EU requirements is without doubt, as is the change in the reporting system for waste equipment. On the other hand, the draft amendment of the Act also provides for a revision of the provisions concerning the database on products and packaging and on waste management (BDO), which has not yet been operational. I'm having second thoughts, isn't connecting to BDO's waste transport companies, the waste customers, gonna make this base the object of continuous blocking? And without printing out the relevant data the logistics simply will. According to Deputy Minister Sławomir Mazurka, similar regulations do not work in other EU countries.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u222	For the third reading... Oh, no, I'm sorry. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 min 47 hrs. 13 min 53]] I'm reopening the session. I cordially welcome students of the Faculty of Political Sciences and Journalism of the University. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań, who listen to our deliberations. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the draft law amending the law on sobriety education and combating alcoholism and certain other laws (prints No 1988, 1988-A and 2024). I ask Mr Andrzej Gawron to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u223	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the draft law amending the law on sobriety education and combating alcoholism and some other laws including the self-correction, 1988 and 1988-A prints. All statistics indicate a very high level of consumption of alcoholic beverages. This is certainly a big problem in our country. Among the European countries, we are at the forefront of the estimated increase in alcohol consumption. It is worth highlighting the high social costs of this state of affairs. I think we are all aware of the harmfulness of excessive alcohol consumption, which causes serious health, social and psychological problems for the addict. However, action to limit the availability of alcohol should be rational. Excessive restrictions in this respect could have a counterproductive effect. The bill is now moving towards a rational use of existing mechanisms. The proposed rules enable municipalities to better implement the Law on sobriety and combating alcoholism. It is recommended that all alcoholic beverages, including beer and drinks with an alcohol content of up to 4.5% , have been included in the limit which specifies the maximum number of authorisations, while keeping up to date the principle that the limit is set separately for points of sale of beverages intended for consumption outside the place of sale and at the place of sale. The project gives the local authorities the right to prohibit the sale of alcohol between 22 and 6 a.m. and allows them to set restrictions for their respective parts. The idea is to limit sales where excessive consumption poses the biggest problem, among others. in the centers of big cities and resorts. However, this solution can be applied flexibly. Hourly forks within the nighttime period can be shaped by local government at its own discretion - different solutions are possible in specific support units throughout the municipality. In addition, the project introduces a ban on drinking alcohol in public places, while at the same time giving the local government the opportunity to freely shape exemptions. The Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, following its first reading, met at its meeting on 21 November 2017, taking into account the positive opinion of the Committee on Health, held a discussion and considered the draft law presented. The Commission rejected the amendments tabled, accepted the self amendment amending the title of the draft law resulting from a typographical error. I would also like to inform you that two minority proposals have been tabled by Mr Wilczyński. The first concerned the additional opinion of the executive body of the municipality's subsidiary unit. The second proposal dealt with a different approach to identifying a public place. In view of all the above considerations, on behalf of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, please adopt a draft law amending the Law on sobriety education and combating alcoholism and certain other laws along with the self-correction, 1988 and 1988-A prints. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u224	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us warmly welcome the students of the 7th High School in Częstochowa who listen to our discussions. [[Applause]] The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u225	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the club Law and Justice to present my position on the amendment of the law on sobriety education and combating alcoholism, print No 1988. The proposed act is the answer to the government's submissions... Local authorities, of course, have been asking for a long time to respond to the concentration of alcohol sales points in the centres of large cities, as well as in resorts. The purpose of the Act is to amend the provisions that raise doubts about interpretation and to regulate at the statutory level issues that enable municipalities to better achieve the objectives of the Law on Sobriety and Antitrust, i.e. restricting the availability of alcoholic beverages. The presence on one street of several or sometimes dozens of shops selling alcohol, and such events often occur in large cities, including coastal or mountain resorts, often 24/7, results in a significant increase in cases of disorder and order and more serious crime in the area. This is confirmed by the threat maps, especially drawn up by the police, recently very popular on the Internet. This in turn leads to gradual degradation of city centers and reduced attractiveness not only of city centers, but also of tourist attraction of individual resorts, especially those most visited. The proposed solutions give local authorities a more effective tool to respond to such situations. The current limit for alcohol sales points for the whole area of the city or the municipality will be able to be regionalised. The City Council will be able to apply a separate limit in the area where the problem arises. The city council will also be able, in justified cases, to restrict the sale of alcohol during the night. Such a tool gives the local authorities an important opportunity to put pressure on sellers to ensure peace and order around the point of sale of alcohol, especially in the night. It should be stressed that the bill is not a prohibition measure. In any of the paragraphs, it does not introduce an arbitrary ban on the sale of alcohol, but merely gives local governments the opportunity to react in pathological situations, if such situations occur in a given municipality, because they cannot be generalized, such situations occur not in all municipalities, but in a large part. The decision on the possible use of these tools will be made by the Council each time knowing the specificities of local problems. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I am handing over two amendments to the Marshal's hands. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u226	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u227	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Club regarding the parliamentary draft law on amending the law on sobriety and combating alcoholism and the law on security of mass events. I'll start with the positives. It is appropriate to propose in the Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 conversion of the concept of "Alcoholic beverages' to "Alcoholic beverages' as a result of both the definition by the municipality of the maximum number of licences for the sale of alcoholic beverages separately for each category of alcoholic beverages, i.e. up to 4.5% alcoholic strength by volume including beer, from 4.5% up to 18% of the alcoholic strength excluding beer, over 18% of the alcoholic strength and the issue of separate licences for sale - here I will use colloquialism - to take out and separately to sell for consumption at the place of sale. In addition, the number of authorisations may be determined separately for individual municipalities' support units. A good and important thing is, and if we had more time to process this law, it would be worth thinking about. about cultural parks in cities, because they are a separate area category. Apt and expected by local authorities, and especially residents, is a proposal that the municipality board should set restrictions on night-time sales between hours. 22 a.m. 6 a.m. This increases the possibility for local authorities to influence places where the night selling of alcoholic beverages is associated with inconvenience for residents and/or is associated with an increase in offences or crimes. The impact of local authorities increases the possibility to determine the maximum number of authorisations for ancillary entities, whose role was recognised by the designers, giving the ancillary bodies the opportunity to comment on the relevant resolutions of the municipal council. The cuffs. The project leaves the power of the municipality council to establish rules for the location in the municipality of places of sale and serving alcoholic beverages, but at the same time by amending the article. 18 by adding a new paragraph. 3b establishes the criteria for granting authorisations where the number of applications for authorisation exceeds the maximum number laid down in the decision of the municipality council. The proposed provision on the spatial distribution of permits contains significant shortcomings and is therefore the reason for the amendment. I don't think I'm gonna be able to develop this thread in time. The main problem is the controversial wording and potential problems in the implementation of the new wording of the article. 14a, which prohibits the consumption of alcoholic beverages in a public place, with the exception of those intended for this purpose. Here, the impreciseness of the definition of public space enshrined in the Land Planning and Development Act, which abstracts from the issue of land ownership, very important, imposes a lack of regulation in the already existing law, as well as in the draft amendment of it, what places are intended for the consumption of alcoholic beverages and who determines them. This cuff must be removed as it will cause problems in the use of e.g. tens of thousands of integration sites made by local communities for local communities, e.g. based on the Sołecki fund. In this respect, there is an appropriate minority request, and we are also proposing an amendment. We propose that Art. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2a was replaced by the following: It is prohibited to drink alcoholic beverages in a public place except for those designated by a resolution of the municipality council. I would also like to draw attention to the change in meaning of the words: from places to places, because there are no such ones intended in advance, to places to be marked, which corresponds to the intention of the legislator and to the fact that we want to designate these places, just to limit them. We trust that the leaning of applicants over these proposals will improve the project, making it a more efficient tool to remove problems related to the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages, and improve the ability of local authorities to act in order to reduce existing problems. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u228	Thank you. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u229	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When we design any legislation, we have to ask ourselves the fundamental question why we do it. In this situation that we are discussing today, with regard to the law on sobriety and combating alcoholism, we have two goals in fact in the public debate. The first goal is the question of safety, health of Poles, because alcohol is of course harmful. The second point is the theme of the comfort of those who drink this comfort. Ladies and gentlemen! For several decades, Poland has been talking about changing the structure of alcohol consumption, giving up the strongest alcohols, booze, and softer alcohols such as wine and beer. For several decades the Polish state has been conducting all fiscal or - nastyly it is the name - PR-owskie, to change customs, customs of Poles, while in this act you want to somehow discourage Poles from consuming these weakest alcohols, beers up to 4.5%. Ladies and gentlemen! I can dream too, imagine a country where nobody drinks alcohol, doesn't use drugs, but it's fiction. Poles simply have the right to use legal products such as beer and swearing reality in the form of this law will not change anything. The Poles will do it anyway. If you allow the municipalities to close alcohol stores after hours. 22 according to your own will, you will limit the freedom to conduct business. You enter between entrepreneurs who risk their assets, running a store, and consumers, customers who risk their own health, wanting to drink what they want. It seems to me that you want to interfere too deeply with the economic freedom and freedom of Poles. If Poles want to buy a legitimate product, they have the right to do so, unless you want to delegalise alcohol, which would be at least curiosity. Examples of countries that introduce such quasi-prohibition show that this simply does not work. It just doesn't work. [[This isn't prohibition.]] If you close your stores after hours. 22... I don't remember it, I'm from a yearbook who can't remember it, but I look at you, and I think many of you remember those times when they just bloomed in dens and flourished in illegal trade. Do you want to go back to that? This is completely absurd. Thank you. [[We don't close, local governments decide.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u230	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u231	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club in the case of the parliamentary draft law amending the law on sobriety education and combating alcoholism and some other laws following the presentation of the committee's report. High Izbo! According to the justification submitted by the applicants, this proposal aims to amend the provisions that raise doubts about interpretation and to regulate at the statutory level issues that enable municipalities to better achieve the objectives of the Law on Sobriety and Antitrust, i.e. restrictions on the availability of alcoholic beverages. And here we'd have to add: in official trading. In practice, this project means, ladies and gentlemen, another interference in private life, as well as freedom of economic activity under the cover of concern for our health. The projector intends to de facto reduce the right of Poles to decide about themselves and introduce solutions that pose a threat to small entrepreneurs and jobs. The amendment aims to reduce the availability of alcohol, especially beer. This is strange, especially if someone is talking about reducing the consumption of pure alcohol, because beer is a drink containing the least alcohol, and the state wants to limit its consumption. That's interesting. The negative impact of alcohol on the human body is, of course, undisputed and must undoubtedly be countered by alcoholism, but the procedated design of this positive effect certainly does not provide. On the contrary, the proposed solution will undoubtedly, first of all, turn Poles towards illegal and unhealthy alcohol. This will also cause financial problems for small entrepreneurs, small family businesses, for which running a small gastronomy or shop is often the primary source of maintenance. I'm getting to the details. According to the draft, the municipality will be able to fix by resolution the maximum number of licences for the sale of alcohol separately for the individual support units that are subject to it. This, of course, will hit entrepreneurs who sell and serve alcohol in the centers of large cities and tourist destinations, as well as may, of course, lead to unjustified bonuses for selected companies. In addition, it will, and this is important, dispose of illegal sources of alcohol. However, the designer clearly believes that it is better to inspire the sale of this illegal alcohol than to ensure the lawful sale of this legal, taxed alcohol. That is not enough, this project will affect the operation of the services, because this project, ladies and gentlemen, is a vote of distrust towards ministers Błaszczak and Zieliński, [[Applause]] who are so weakly overseeing the police that they cannot ensure security, public order in places where alcohol is sold. It's pretty psychic. [[Bullshit.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The modification of the rules for the granting of licences for the sale of alcohol by granting new concessions depending on the density of the existing network poses a number of significant risks: firstly, blocking the possibility of creating new grocery stores, which, of course, would not be able to achieve profitability without the possibility of selling alcoholic beverages - such are the facts, that is the market, this cannot be overlooked - the obvious restriction of competition in the area concerned, the increase in the risk of corruption in the case of both an attempt to obtain a licence and to avoid the loss of alcohol in connection with infringements. Another thing is the emergence of a trade in permits. These are all effects that the designer doesn't write about, and they are obvious after reading the project. The municipality is also to be granted the possibility to limit night sales between 22 and 6, the limitation may apply to the entire municipality or selected areas. Of course, there is a question about equal treatment of entities. This provision makes it possible for different entities in one municipality to be treated in an unequal manner, hence the question of the compatibility of this regulation with Article. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 the Constitution, according to which everyone is equal to the law and has the right to equal treatment by public authorities. If we divide the small town into such, say, various ancillary units quite close together, this is a clear distortion of competitiveness. Another questionable solution is to remove the possibility for authorised operators and TSOs to sell and serve beer at mass events. You're offering tonight, but... Only entrepreneurs whose business is to provide food for closed events, etc., had this opportunity, which in practice means catering companies. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is also a limitation, a considerable limitation for this social sphere. Ladies and gentlemen! This excessive rigour will never cause alcohol consumption to fall.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u232	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u233	We will therefore try to improve this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u234	Mr Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u235	I am putting in the hands of the Marshal of Corrections and I ask you to accept these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u236	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I present my position on the report of the committee on the draft law amending the law on sobriety and combating alcoholism and some other laws. The applicants explained at the committee meeting that the project aims to equip local authorities with tools to combat too much concentration of points where alcohol can be bought. The project is intended to reduce excessive alcohol consumption where it causes the greatest problems, among others. in the centers of big cities or resorts. In addition, the project introduces a ban on drinking alcohol in public places. This means the end of the famous permission to drink alcohol on the Vistula boulevards in Warsaw. Members wish to give the local authorities the right to prohibit the sale of alcohol between 22 and 6 and to limit the number of newly issued alcohol licences for shops. Such tools are already available to local authorities, but only in relation to the entire municipality. An hour limit may be problematic. Hypothetically, if the shop is open by the hour. 24 and the sale ban is valid from 4 p.m. 22, a situation difficult to verify. For two hours, it is theoretically impossible to sell alcohol, but practice will show whether the ban will be respected. In addition, the ban on sales will apply to shops, but sales will already be allowed at petrol stations, which is a kind of distortion of the project's assumptions. Another theoretically possible problem: What if alcohol is purchased and consumed on the spot? Apart from the rest of the detailed arrangements, the fact remains that in April 2016, the Committee on the Territorial Government and Regional Policy decided to reject the draft amendment to the Law on Sobriety and Against Alcoholism, tabled by the Group of Members, in print No 357. In general, it assumed almost the same as the current PiS project - local governments were supposed to be able to limit the night-time sale of alcohol between 22 and 6 and designate zones for the prohibition of its consumption outside restaurants and bars. But I understand that the Sejm cannot adopt laws other than those of the ruling party. The PSL Parliamentary Club will express its position on the proposed solutions in the voting block. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u237	Thank you very much. Mrs Mirrors of Free and Solidarne has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u238	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Circle of Members of Free and Solidarnia, I present a report on the draft law amending the law on sobriety education and combating alcoholism and some other laws. The draft law aims to amend the provisions that raise doubts about interpretation and to regulate these issues at the statutory level, which will enable the municipalities to better achieve the objectives of the Law on Sobriety Education and Against Alcoholism, i.e. restricting the availability of alcoholic beverages. Alcohol consumption in Poland is higher than average consumption in the European Union. Research shows that the consumption of alcoholic beverages in our country will continue to increase. This situation is very worrying and I therefore fully support the initiative taken by a group of Members who want to introduce new tools into the bill that local authorities will be able to use. Many diseases caused by abuse of alcoholic beverages, e.g. injuries, cancers, cardiovascular diseases and many other diseases directly or indirectly contribute to death. In Poland, almost 10,000 people die from alcohol abuse in the course of the year. persons. Looking at such statistics, we need to take decisive action that will be effective and effective. To date, the Municipality Council has determined the number of points of sale of alcoholic beverages, not including beer or alcohol up to 4.5%. Alcohols such as beer are much cheaper and more accessible to the general public. Many studies show that it is the beer that is most common among young people. Universal availability and huge number of points of sale make it impossible to effectively control compliance with the provisions of the Law on sobriety and combating alcoholism, among others. in the context of compliance with the ban on the sale of alcohol to minors. Reducing physical and economic accessibility is a recognised worldwide mechanism contributing to reducing alcohol consumption. Let me remind you that the bill introduces e.g. new rules for determining the number of authorisations for the sale of alcohol by the municipality board. The Council will be able, by resolution, to set a maximum number of authorisations for individual support units separately and to introduce restrictions on the sale of alcoholic beverages intended for consumption outside the place of sale during the night. The contested law provides numerous tools for local authorities to reduce the sale of alcoholic beverages and indirectly reduce the consumption of alcohol by the local community. I believe that local governments will use the tools proposed by the law with caution and full responsibility. Self-government, depending on local needs and circumstances, will shape the policy of selling alcohol. I hope that this healthy policy will contribute to reducing the consumption of alcohol by residents, especially young people, and will have an impact on the safety of residents. The fact that the local government will decide on the location of the places of sale, administration and consumption of alcoholic beverages must be stressed. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u239	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us again, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1 minute. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz.15. Mr Maciejewski, do you want to ask a question? [[He wants to, but he can't.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u240	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! My question is this. At the committee meeting, everyone agreed: and the social side, and the applicant Member, and the self-governments, and the entrepreneurs, that we have to fight the pathology that we have to fight alcoholism as a problem. This does not change the fact that in the project the applicant puts on one level shops selling alcohol and neighborhood groceries for 24 hours, which are supposed to work and usually work up to an hour. 12. The question is, is this time, this hour. 22 is rightly the hour after which this activity is blocked. Because it would be wrong to put in one bag of neighborhood groceries and shops that are problematic in the social sense. And one more thing. The question is, where are the police and the city guards? Everyone knows exactly where the problems are. I think it is also necessary to put an emphasis on the need for public institutions to get on with their work and just start keeping order. Thank you very much. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u241	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u242	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What we have ahead of us is a shell solution. In addition, it can cause job losses in the industry, especially beer industry. Such changes as the Members of the PIS propose, because it is again a parliamentary project, which should be preceded by a very broad public consultation, and it was not. Similar limitations were already in place. Many Poles remember them and remember the gray area, i.e. the dens that work at night. That's what we're getting at. I think the government should focus on prevention programmes, not on bans and warrants. It's already been done, and it didn't work. Therefore, I will ask: What expenditures are borne from the state budget to counter alcoholism, and what are the results? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What about the festival permits or the harvest festivals? Isn't it gonna be a problem getting them? And will all actors be treated equally? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u243	Thank you, Member. Mr Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u244	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Whenever the High Chamber undertakes to make local governments happy, to influence their lives, the question arises which I ask the applicant: To what extent was the voice of both the local government and the social side taken into account in the proposed changes? I think it's always worth referring to. And maybe the second question is, why did a beer come under that bill, and what did that beer deserve? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u245	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u246	Mr. Marshal! Applicants! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We look at this project, of course, in terms of whether it increases the ability of local governments to influence or reduces. It's increasing, it's increasing, it's increasing, it's That's how help units turn on, which is good. [[Applause]] It should be noted here that the success of this amendment will depend on whether you will be removed from the general ban on alcohol in places identified as public. That's the key. Because if we don't get out of this, it's gonna be a problem, not some added value. I'll get to the specific question. In view of the opinion of the resolutions of the municipality council which lay down the rules for the distribution of permits, we have the opportunity to make statements by the auxiliary bodies. The question is what organ it's going to be. Is it a country meeting or a council meeting? Is the general meeting of the residents of the settlement or the management of the estate? I believe that the executives should speak on this point, because it is difficult to imagine the convening of a rural meeting or [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a settlement on a case like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u247	Thank you. Mr Jacek Protas, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Firstly, I would like to ask: Why are we dealing with a parliamentary project rather than a government project? [[A voice from the hall: Because I wrote it.]] Is the reason, Commissioner, that you do not have to consult this project on the committee of the common government and the local government? [[The voice from the hall: No, because I wrote it.]] As usual, for projects that are important for local government - in a moment we will talk about another - you do not consult and you do not put these issues at a meeting of an institution that has been specifically set up for this purpose by law. But I wanted to encourage you to accept our amendment, which perfectly organizes the provisions that you are proposing, namely to include in the article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2a as follows: It is prohibited to drink alcoholic beverages in a public place, except for those designated [[♪ The bell ♪]] by a resolution of the commune council. For your record raises the question: Who is to designate places for drinking alcohol? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u249	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u250	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Personally, I am very pleased that we are debating a change in the law on sobriety and combating alcoholism. Local government officials and residents came to my parliamentary office asking for legislative work in this area. The locals complained about the inconveniences associated with the operation of round-the-clock shops where alcohol is sold. Until now, local authorities did not have sufficient legal instruments to eliminate pathological phenomena. The procedures for withdrawing authorisations for the sale of alcoholic beverages are very difficult, complex and most often ineffective. Hence, it welcomes the proposal to amend the article. 12, which will enable the municipalities' councils to carry out restrictions on the night sale of alcoholic beverages. My question concerns the government's intentions: Are there any other changes to this law besides this project? After all, the problem of combating alcoholism is an extremely broad problem, and changes towards [[♪ The bell ♪]] greater effectiveness is advocated by residents and we meet with it every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u251	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Kryj, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u252	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For many years I worked in the local government, among others. the issue of alcohol prevention, I have been working on the work of the municipal alcoholic problem resolution committee, and I am aware of the importance of the precise rules governing, for example, the authorisation rules for the sale of alcoholic beverages. Very often, when laws are introduced, which govern matters governed by the local government, we meet as Members with the charge that we restrict self-government. It seems that this project is quite the opposite, that it gives very great opportunities to local governments, although the voices of my predecessors may have suggested something else. Therefore, I have a question: Will the regulations put in place facilitate the work of local governments, will they support them, and with what assessment of local authorities have they met? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u253	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u254	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The explanatory memorandum states: The proposed regulations will affect the property rights of entrepreneurs. Only property rights of those whose concessions will continue to apply are guaranteed. And what happens if an entrepreneur who runs a restaurant, a wine bar or a liquor store doesn't get that concession because it's gonna be limited? Who will ensure that he can continue his business and earn a living? We're making a new law here, and as always, an entrepreneur gets hit in the head. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u255	Thank you. Mrs Bernadette Krynick, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u256	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Alcohol abuse brings huge economic losses to the state, many times exceeding ad hoc profits. Innumerable human dramas, physical, mental, broken families, and suffering children follow their lack of sobriety. Ladies and gentlemen! The easier access to alcohol, the more consumption in the population increases, resulting in increased alcohol consumption and alcohol problems. The higher the density of points selling alcohol, the greater the problems with vandalism, hooliganism, minor and sometimes serious crime. These problems must be dealt with by people who live near these points. I have a question for the applicant: What positive social impacts do you expect? And as it is said that this law is pro-government, I have a question: which local governments, institutions or local governments have called for it [[♪ The bell ♪]] an amendment to this bill? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u257	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u258	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The procedated amendment of the Act on Against Alcoholism and Sobriety Education gives local governments a more effective tool to respond to pathological situations. The existing limit of alcohol sales points for the municipality area will be able to be regionalised, i.e. the city council or the municipality will be able to apply a separate limit in the area where these problems occur. Question to the Member of the applicant: How will the issue of alcohol sales at the fuel stations and during the festivals be resolved? That's a lot of interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u259	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u260	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Here I repeat, as it were, but there is a question of regionalization, regionalization of these zones. We know that in big cities, especially in big cities, there are gas stations downtown. The question is, did you even consult with the state, or did you ask the fuel vendors, among which they are, for example. companies like Orlen or Lotos, are they willing to ban the sale of alcohol or stop, actually, not ban it, just stop the sale of alcohol? How would this affect the financial condition of individual petrol stations? If you have taken this into account, you have asked, I would like to know the answer. If not, it may turn out that these petrol stations will become some kind of island that will be exempted from security under these regulations, and this in turn may cause the pathology that we are trying to fight here to continue. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u261	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants, Mr Szymon Szynkowski, aka Sęk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u262	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! To answer questions, I would like to say, that's where I'm going to start, why this is a parliamentary project. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, I've been working on this project for the last three years. Even before I was an envoy I have worked on the submission, on these ideas which I am presenting today to the High House, within the Union of Polish Cities, later as a Member in the normal legislative procedure. That's why it's a parliamentary mode. I answer the question of whether there have been consultations with local authorities and how these environments relate to this. Well, in the case of the Polish City Association, when I was still a member of the board of directors of this board, it was one of the priorities to introduce such solutions. The Union of Polish Metropolises, the second largest local government organisation, also supports these solutions. Therefore, local government officials from many cities - I could exchange, from Torun, Rzeszów, Warsaw, Poznań, Przemyśl, Puławy and many, many cities - support these solutions. They were only impatient about why they had to wait so long for such tools. Ladies and gentlemen! I prepared this bill because even as a local governmentman, I was approached by residents who expected the cities to deal with the problem of the high density of alcohol sales points in the centers of large cities. The centres of cities such as Warsaw, Poznań, Wrocław, Toruń and Kraków are to be a showcase of these cities, not a shy gutter. The centre is to be attractive to tourists and residents, not to offer as the main attraction of the group sitting in front of points selling alcohol. And that's why this project. So that this is not a central solution, but a solution that takes into account the specifics of each city, we give tools to local governments that will react only if they notice that it is the right of the inhabitants, I stress: the right to feel safe in their neighborhood is being violated. No prohibition is introduced. No rights and freedoms are restricted in this project. Everything is decided by the authority that is closest to the people. And that's what these tools are for. The first such tool is to regionalise sales limits. The question was why the beer was covered by such a limit. I will ask another question: Why have all the other alcohols been subject to limits so far and not beer? I like beer very much, I don't mind connoisseurs of this liquor, but I don't really understand why this alcohol would be treated on some special basis. We want to treat him evenly. It's an hour limit. The question was, isn't it too restrictive? These are forks, maximum range. I would like to remind you that in the project submitted by the Civic Platform Group last year, local governments were given the opportunity to prohibit full-time sales. That was a restrictive restriction. We have found that these problems do not occur throughout the day, so the possibilities of introducing restrictions should be narrowed down only at hours. 22. If the government finds that problems arise after hours. 23, after 24 or another hour, then within these forks he will be able to flexibly decide in what hours introduces this restriction. I would also like to talk about the consultation process, because there were such allegations here that there was no consultation. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been consulting this project from the beginning. That was the first issue I dealt with here in the Sejm in the D.A. team. Polish cities. There have been talks with all stakeholders, residents, uniformed services, alcohol sellers, alcohol producers, health experts. There really was a lot of consultation. The proof that there were so many of them is, at least, the fact that there was not a single vote at the committee meeting the day before yesterday that there was no consultation or lack of time. We differed in opinions, but that was not the voice. I'll be finishing, of course, Mr. Marshal, in a moment. On the other hand, these consultations led to this compromise dimension of this law, in which I also took into account the voice which was voiced by Mr Wilczyński at the committee meeting. I promised at the committee meeting that I would reflect on whether the general ban on drinking in public places, excluding by the city council, and this exclusion, where there was indeed a lack of this annotation, who indicated the places to be consumed, was a legitimate solution. We have tabled a club amendment in which we follow this lead, with this intention not only suggested by Mr Wilczyński - he emphasized this at the committee's meeting, for which I thank him - but also representatives of other communities, so that the local government may possibly complement the list of places where alcohol is prohibited, but we do not introduce this general prohibition clause. The criteria that we introduce are clear to decide on concessions. They shouldn't raise doubts in my opinion. And one last thing. The second amendment, which we are making, is an amendment which also stems from such reflections - also from Mr Kukiz, because I also talked about it with Mr Józwiak - to introduce a solution that will facilitate the collection of concessions in a situation where the point does not respect the order and order of its area and does not inform the relevant uniform services. Until now, it's been a dead law because it was miswritten. In line with these intentions, we make such an amendment. In conclusion, I would like to say that I am fully convinced that the consultation was sufficient, that this act is compromise, that it takes into account the voice of many different environments - and dealing with the subject and political - and that is why I would like to ask you not to make this a good tool for the local governments of the subject for some political fight, but to support it as a pro-government tool. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u263	Thank you, sir. The rapporteur for the committee, Mr Andrzej Gawron, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u264	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to thank all the committee members in two sentences for their very substantive work on this project. I thank the inventor, Simon Szynkowski, a.k.a. Sęk, for preparing such a good project. I am sure that the amendments that are tabled are going in the same direction. But I would also like to say something fundamental. We do not forbid anything as Members, as Chambers, as, in guesses, a parliamentary majority. We give tools to local governments. I think we can all agree that local governments should have this tool. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u265	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, let's give a warm welcome to the students of the National School of Music. Arthur Malawski from Przemyśl. [[Applause]] The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 min. 42 hrs. 15]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of items 22 and 23 of the agenda: 22. First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending certain laws to increase the participation of citizens in the process of selecting, operating and controlling certain public authorities (Print No 2001). 23. First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the electoral code law and some other laws (print No 2023). Ladies and gentlemen! We are listening to many distinguished guests, people who have been fighting for one-mandate electoral districts for years, i.e. to give power to citizens in Poland. [[Applause]] [[And they were successful.]] I'd like to warmly welcome Czesław Attack, the son of the sleeper. Prof. Jerzy Przykłady, initiator and organizer of the Civil Movement for the Unimandate Election Districts. Welcome. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, he's not sleeping with us. Professor Andrzej Czachor, who recently died. Until the last minute he was working on changing the electoral ordination to the Sejm. We have people who have been fighting for years for JOW: Grażyna Polka, Krzysztof Polka, Daniel Roszkowski, Grażyna Rashkiewicz, Krzysztof Szczotka, Aleksandra Pisarek and Ewelina Kowalska. Welcome. [[Applause]] I would like to ask Mr Łukasz Schreiber to provide a justification for the draft law contained in the 2001 print. [[Sorry, sorry, formal motion.]] Oh, excuse me, sir. Mr Marek Owa with a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would also like to welcome the young people who are listening to the meeting. [[Applause]] In a few years, she will probably exercise her right to vote. Ladies and gentlemen! We've got a very important one ahead of us...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u267	Mr. President, one second. I'll add that they're young people from the school group. Adam Mickiewicz from the Obieżar. Welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u268	Ladies and gentlemen! In a moment, we will be debating two extremely important draft laws. Each of them concerns changes e.g. In the electoral code. These will be the prints that were submitted on November 10 and the print of Kukiza was submitted on November 17th. Unfortunately, the draft amendment to the electoral code submitted by Members of the Modern Members in May this year was blocked, print No 1611. Mr. Marshal! I therefore ask for a break, a call for a Senior Convention and a supplement to the agenda for a print project No 1611 submitted by the Modern Members so that we can fully discuss the very important issues, the changes in the electoral code, so that we can choose the best solution together. For me it is completely incomprehensible that Marshal Kuchciński for 6 months has frozen the printing of Members of the Modern...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u269	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u270	...and the print of PiS and Kukiz...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u271	I'm explaining the situation to you now.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u272	...he let go of his hand. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u273	This may indeed be the most important point in two years, but I will tell you. The issue of the Modern Project was brought to the Bureau and the Convention. Unfortunately, the Modern does not fully know the Sejm's rules and has not filed for the completion of order... [[Because you objected.]] ...until the hour. The 21st day before. [[That's not true.]] [[Voices from the O.R.: 6 months.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We're going through... [[Game in the O.R.]] I ask Mr Łukasz Schreiber to present the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u274	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present as an applicant a bill amending certain laws in order to increase the participation of citizens in the selection, operation and control of certain electoral bodies. [[That's a lie.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This bill has three fundamental points, three fundamental parts. In the first part it increases citizens' capacity in the process, participation in the local government. One could say that this is such a pro-Citizen democratic package. It also enhances the opportunities of councillors and increases the role of councillors. [[Political, non-government.]] It raises, also increases the role of opposition councillors. The second part is to increase the transparency and transparency of the electoral process. And finally, the third part, the part that inspires, one can say, the greatest emotions, although it is not the most important part of them, is the part about change, one can say, in some sense systemic. I would like to start here by explaining why this part was included in this bill at all, why we should discuss this at all, why we, as Members of the Law and Justice, have included these changes in the bill. High Izbo! We need to get back to the source. The beginning of everything was 2010. It was then during the local elections that everyone, after these results were presented, wiped their eyes out of astonishment. [[Voice from the room: But what do you mean?]] They wiped their eyes out of amazement not even because of the election result, but because we were faced with an extraordinary plague of votes that were not valid in Mazowsze. Then this plague of invalid voices in Mazowsze in one voivodship was A little over 14%. But it's gone cold. One voivodship, you can say, bad luck. [[Voice from the O.R.: You have two years to clean up.]] In the following year, the Civic Platform - one can say that in its course - carried out a draft law introducing the Code of Election. Of course, the harmonisation of all these acts can be considered a good idea. Some of the changes were amazing. The Constitutional Tribunal questioned inter alia. non-constitutional two-day elections which were then introduced. [[Voice from the Chamber: Who voted in favour?]] Ladies and gentlemen! And here comes 2014. On the eve of course all these... Even one of the parties was campaigning to make fun of the increasing role of men of confidence. There was talk of some kind of phobia, some kind of imaginary conspiracy. Year 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, you can say self-compromising on a global scale. Six days. Six days, High Izbo, we didn't know the election results. You had to wait six days to announce them. And over these six long days, more things multiplied, more doubts and questions multiplied. [[Conspiracy theories.]] Again, the matter of turnout is not a matter of null and void voices. And this time, High Izbo, across the country was over or close to 18% Voices that don't matter. What did the State Election Commission do? She applied the 2010 theme, a theme that only functioned in Mazowsze at the time, with an election card on the front page with an electoral list. It's all over the country. It must and must have aroused not only disbelief, but also a lot of questions. That's what the exit poll results were for. Once again, one of the parties won almost 150% Votes more than in the exit poll. [[Exit poll results?]] To this end, the time to check, the time to count votes, which of course influenced the results of elections in some municipalities. This led to the fact that those with a recognised authority who were involved in public opinion polling even went to the conclusion that the results presented by IPOS at that time were more important than the result finally provided by the State Election Commission.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u275	Mr President, I am so sorry, I do not see the logical link between what you are talking about and the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u276	Mr. Marshal, I don't think you're judging whether it's related or not. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Oh, look who's talking. Talk to your marshal who says, "Let's get to the point."]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u277	I'm here to make sure that your speech is related to the subject matter. I would therefore encourage you to present the project. Get to the point. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u278	This is... [[Marshal, this is an unjustified interference in the Member's speech.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u279	This is a delicate suggestion to move on to the presentation of the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u280	Mr. Marshal, I don't think you're here to warm up the atmosphere. I'm gonna move on to the project presentation in a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u281	I'd really appreciate it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u282	I pointed out that this introduction was necessary to explain the origin of one of the three essential parts of this bill. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude this thread, we can say that these elections were not the same as in a democratic country, especially in the heart of Europe... [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: No...]] ...not like a country belonging to the European Union... [[You reported Brussels, the marketplace, you reported Brussels.]] ...but they were more like elections in Zimbabwe. [[Voice from the hall: Who won this election?]] Three days were waiting for the 2008 election to be decided. We had to wait six days. High Izbo! I'm going to discuss the bill. [[Voice from the room: Finally!]] The first part, the pro-Citizen Democratic Package [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] - a pro-Citizen package, about which a lot has been said in local governments... [[Self-government island of freedom.]] ...about which very often there have been discussions in various kinds of bodies, about which all ideas came from practitioners... [[From the PiS?]] ...from people who had experience in the local government and who functioned in it. Firstly, raising public budgets to the statutory rank, stating that in cities on the rights of the county as much as 0,5% , minimally, in each of them will have to be carried out... [[This is a good Civic Platform project.]] [[Then let us do it.]] Secondly, raising the citizens' initiative to the statutory status of a resolution. [[Touchdown, applause]] It's like this, High Izbo... [[Speech outside the microphone]] Your behavior in this room shows at this moment... [[Don't judge us!]] ...already today, such a shoe and arrogance that fear to think what would happen if you ever gained power. [[Everyone thinks so.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The third point to be said is that the deliberations of the municipalities, cities, powiats and voivodship sejmies will be broadcasted, will be recorded, [[Applause]] and the results of the votes will be able to be seen on the websites. Someone's gonna say it's in some local governments today, too. In part yes, in others there is no recording at all, in others yes, it is possible, but as for example. In my Bydgoszcz, the results of the votes are not published with caution, and it is only necessary to ask for them. Here's another thing. We are also introducing some opportunities for councillors. This is actually the answer to the situation that we have been dealing with since 2002. Well, High Izbo, by 2002, you can say the president, the mayor or the mayor was a kind of slave to the councillors, and since 2002 he has become their master. These solutions, which are included in the project, are designed to try to apply some counterweight to this. Interpellations and questions of the councilmen shall be fixed in the act. I believe that no one can protest against this. The answer - within 14 days, and the content of queries and answers must be made public on the Internet and not, as often so today, only communicated to the councilman. The Councils will set up a special committee for complaints, requests and petitions. Someone's gonna say the audit committees are on it. In part, yes, of course, but for the audit committee it's often secondary. In the European Parliament we have a committee of complaints, petitions and proposals, and we have such a committee in our parliament. There's no reason why there's no such committee in local governments. In every self-government unit, and this is a very important thing, once a year there will be a debate - a debate on the state of the commune, county and voivodeship, a debate, High Izbo, which, unlike the absolute debate, will not focus only on the figures, will not focus on how the president is dealing with the implementation of the planned budget. The point is that this debate - and this debate - can raise questions that are also difficult. [[And now you can't?]] In order for citizens to be able to participate, the right to participate is guaranteed for 15 of them. [[Applause]] Here's another thing. After the debate, a vote is to be held on a vote of confidence in the president, the uncle or the mayor. Ladies and gentlemen, why such a vote? In order for the Council to accept a motion for a referendum after the President has failed to obtain a vote of confidence twice. Such a referendum then takes place obligatoryly. [[Any minute now, it could be...]] It is also a matter of mobilising and encouraging the Councillors and the President, or rather, in this case, above all, the President, to cooperate. Each club on the city council, on the commune council, on the district council, in the voivodeship sejm, shall be entitled to include at most one item in each session on the agenda. This is, of course, a law that is theoretically conditioned in different ways today... [[Even the opposition doesn't have that kind of protection in the Seym.]] ...but even if the councilmen collect signatures and submit such an application... [[Why can't we in the Seym?]] ...often it turns out that this point is deleted, rejected by most councilmen. [[It is in the Seym.]] The point is to make it real, not just a declaratory discussion. [[At least once a year in the Seym.]] The point is not to embarrass the councils, the local governments in general, their excessive politicisation, which is especially the case in large local governments and voivodship seymics, and what is regrettable. Such a debate is not only advisable - this empowerment of the councillors, seems to meet the intentions of the citizens. High Izbo! There's another key record. So far, each body itself in the charter decides how many councillors are needed to form a council club. Now it will be at least three councillors in bodies of up to 30 councillors and at least 1/10 councillors in the case of more organs. [[I want the PiS club to be in every municipality.]] High Izbo! This is a proposal which in turn is intended to protect against an attempt to torpedo this right e.g. by recording the majority that the councillors' club on the 20th council must count seven councilmen. Councillors will gain individual control powers, more or less like those, High Izbo, who today have Members of the State Treasury companies - councillors, of course, vis-à-vis municipal companies. And finally, the review committee in the voivodship sejm. High Izbo, it often happens so that in the Seym of the Voivodeship the review committee and its chairmanship is the majority councilman. Now, every club will determine itself before the first vote on the election of a marshal, whether it supports it or will vote against it. The largest opposition club will be entitled to appoint a chairman of the audit committee. [[That's what happens in the Podkarpacie, too, isn't it?]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is only a bit like the Sejm, because in the Sejm the opposition, which you often forget, has almost half of the seats of the chairmen of all committees, in the Sejm half of the members of the Sejm's Bureau are members of the opposition... [[Please?]] ...and unfortunately, e.g. in the local government of Bydgoszcz, Inowroclaw and many others there is no place at all, and there you rule. [[Do you know of local governments to have daddy and son on the same board?]] Ladies and gentlemen, the staff are also to provide office services to the councillors. It is a matter of being separated from the structures of the office and going under the authority of the chairman of the council of the municipality or district or the sejm of the voivodship. The point is that there should be no situation where, if they are bound by loyalty to their employer, they must hinder the life and work of the opposition councillor. And this is the first part, briefly discussed, of this pro-Citizen democratic package. Let's move on. Part two, i.e. rules that increase the transparency and transparency of the electoral process. I would like to draw your attention, High Izbo, that these proposals which we are presenting here, Law and Justice have been consistently making since 2010. Even during the work on the electoral code, they were presented, of course, at the time they were almost publicly rejected, but today we are back to that. The point is to actually end up in some way with a batch of two crosses. Such a party, a batch of two crosses... is, of course, a term in quotes. [[You're up against crosses, aren't you?]] Number of null votes that fall when there are two crosses marked or more... this particular party received over 5% in the 2010 elections and already over 8% in 2014 Voices. This is, ladies and gentlemen, an incredible scale. High Izbo! The ballot card will consist of one-sided printed, permanently connected pages, but the important novel is the fact that the front page will contain a list of all the committees starting in the elections... [[The contents will be 25%.]] ...and on the other side there will be instructions for voting. Only from the third side will they be... [[Maybe that's what we call a coalition.]] ...lists of other committees that run for office. [[And if the committee signs up under the name of the Content List...]] Another thing is to eliminate, completely eliminate the possibility of a two-day vote, move away from it. Next, securing the ballots using sealed packaging. The point is that after this breach of certainty so many Poles... [[Why only two committees, not four?]] ...as far as the electoral process is concerned, as many of these things as possible will be eliminated. Finally, the security of the IT system. We've been dealing with a situation that's quite extraordinary and unbelievable, in which this system... [[He won't be able to build an IT system in time.]] ...was sometimes located outside the country. This time it must be located on the territory of the Republic of Poland. [[The server on Novgorodska is fine.]] It's a broadcast from the polling station. Here, High Izbo, I must also tell you about the first fake news that circulates in public opinion. I mean... [[What number? Nowygrodzka is a long one.]] ...it's not for this broadcast to be made so that, as we hear it, I don't know, someone can do some counting of people or counting votes, just to ensure that there's as much transparency as possible in the polls. Two electoral committees: the first one works to shut down the polls, the second one counts the votes. [[Voice from the room: Stalinowska...]] High Izbo! This is another... here fall... even Stalin... another fake news, half-truths and complete manipulation that this is meant to serve anything other than, again, helping make these choices. High Izbo, this is a situation... Such votes can only be put forward, first of all, by someone who has not read this bill at all, and second of all, by someone who has no idea what it looks like to be working on the electoral committee. It's a long and hard job. [[Oh, speak of yourself.]] We also write down the need to stay permanently 2/3 of the composition of the regional electoral committees during the voting process, so that it was not so often so far: the committee divided into three parts of three persons and three persons, sometimes it was a happy thing to do with one of the electoral committees to have complete control over the course of the vote. [[What are you suggesting? What's this?]] [[But you're lying!]] The next thing you know, the committee would be working for twenty-six hours. This is a very difficult situation. [[Where was it that three out of one party?]] [[A concrete example, a place, a date.]] In this respect, we propose that the two committees take a resting committee to count the votes so that she can join the resting committee. [[It doesn't matter who votes, it doesn't matter who counts.]] And I will draw your attention, High Izbo, that this committee that... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[You're the only ones who'll accidentally be asleep.]] Mr. Marshal, I understand a certain level...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u283	Now, sir. Take it easy. Ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to provide a statement of reasons.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u284	It's an amazing thing that you guys are doing for yourselves. [[Don't be silly, we're not gonna get along.]] [[The Lord bears witness to himself.]] High Izbo! What's the matter? After all, the members of the electoral committees, both of them, will be elected on the exact same principle. They will consist of representatives of all parties, all committees that have exceeded the electoral threshold to the Sejm, including those who have crossed the threshold and have their representatives in the sejm of the voivodship. There are six places for them. This means, in the current state of affairs, that the opposition has a guaranteed advantage of 5 to 1. Other seats will be allocated to other electoral committees. Next case. Polish social organizations will be allowed to observe elections. We've had an amazing situation where it's foreign... [[Clubs of the Polish Gazeta.]] ...international organisations had the right to do so, and Polish organizations, which have been dealing with this issue for many years, had been prevented from observing the electoral process. Chairman... This is, of course, a difficulty, but it also makes sure that the results have not been twisted in any way. So when counting the votes, the chairman of the committee will take the card into his hands, show it to everyone present and make it clear whether it is important, whether the vote is important and for whom it has been given. All members will be taking notes and only then will these voices be checked each other. Each member - this is also extremely important - will receive a copy of the protocol after completion of work. Without these changes, after this compromise in 2014, when many days were waiting for results, when sometimes it was not known, especially in large urban centres, when it weighed very little votes, who would enter the second tour and who would not, it was sometimes impossible to determine for a few days the final result of the election... At least every committee will be able to do it on its own. Moreover, it will give certainty, High Izbo, that all committees will have a full list of protocols. Oh, one more important thing about it: these protocols will also have to be put online. High Izbo, this is an amazing thing, but we still don't have this from the 2014 local elections. This is not on the pages of the State Election Commission. And if it is, it's so hidden, it's hard to see. [[Only someone who doesn't have a clue can say he doesn't.]] Of course there isn't, because it's not a mandatory record today. The National Election Commission will also be required to check voting cards and other election documents to rule out suspicion of irregularities in the course of elections. All this plus what the Law and Justice have been saying for a long time, strengthening the role, meaning and position... [[Just 'cause you're digging around in ordination means you're done.]] ...husbands of trust, all these things are supposed to bring complete certainty about this... The point is, no one can question the election result. I realize, High Izbo, that the process of converting votes can take a little longer. We are aware of this as Members who have worked on this bill. But to restore the faith and feeling of Poles and also the feeling of all parties, of all committees that take part in these elections... [[Don't make us happy, really, and local governments.]] This is much more important than being satisfied that we're gonna be done three hours early. High Izbo! The third issue, i.e. structural changes, changes that I understand are the most emotional. Two cadences of the mayors, mayors, city presidents. Yes, this is a change that Law and Justice have been proposing for a long time. This is a change that we have made a number of arguments about, because it is in these bodies that a situation often occurs - or at least it is possible - in which powerful power directed towards the individual is used. High Izbo, is an absolute untruth and fake news again from the opposition, that this change, prepared in such a way that the first term of office from 2018, was planned to reverse it in time, i.e. to pass the terms that had already been held. This is absolutely not true, this is, I don't want to use very strong words, actually trying to manipulate. Next thing you know, I'm gonna have to cancel the election. And here again, High Izbo, trying to create such fake news that now someone wants the commissioners to be I don't know What they were doing with the election. High Izbo! A situation where he's the person most interested in how elections are held, a person who's dishonest about it, who has no remorse... If this is linked to the fact that we are dealing with a small community, where it is relatively easy to carry out such a process, it leads to a completely scandalous situation. We know a number of processes on a national scale... [[The president will tell us what they're gonna do.]] [[But the PiS voivode isn't objective when it comes to elections either.]] ...we also know people convicted of falsifying elections. These are the authorities, the town's secretaries, etc. They are also, unfortunately, members of the regional electoral committees in the past. [[Everyone steals, and only one is honest.]] Next thing you know, broadening the scope for candidacy. High Izbo! Expanding the possibility of running for... [[Program 5000+ for your own.]] ...so the person who's running for office doesn't have to live in the community. All of you in this room know very well... [[This is a cabaret.]] [[That means the PiS paratroopers.]] ...that very often, especially in big cities, people move a bit further away to the neighbouring commune for various reasons. [[Tell them to check in.]] Is that why we're supposed to ban them... Sometimes they are people who are longtime councillors or have been involved in the life of the city for many years. Should we therefore lead to such a situation, and duplicate the situation that is taking place today, that they are fictitiously checked in with their grandmothers, aunts and pretend, although they live with their family, that they only see each other, because such answers often fall. Why, someone's gonna ask because we thought, I don't know... Not only to the neighbouring commune, because known such cases, that sometimes it is not the neighbouring commune, but a little further away. Sometimes you work in one place and you live in another. Why should we exclude such persons, deprive them of the possibility of running? [[Because they don't live in this town.]] [[You don't understand the idea of self-government.]] Fourthly, the abolition on this subject of a series of absurdities that have multiplied. I don't know if any of you are aware, but every one of us, when we're campaigning, going to the town market, each of us, leaving a car there and going with flyers, should actually have a signed contract with ourselves to rent the car. That kind of thing gets lifted. An additional thing is also introduced for small electoral committees, especially for them particularly important, i.e. not to count to the limit of leaflets, posters, small forms of campaigning, room rental fees and the like. The limit will only include advertising in the media, large-area advertising. The suspension, I don't know, the banner on the fence of a friend, friend or sympathy today had to actually be preceded by a proper agreement. Thanks to this recipe, everyone will be able to do it and hang this banner if they feel like it. They'll be able to hold him as long as they want. Because today, after 30 days, in theory, all sorts of things are being started... they're being ordered to remove this material. Of course, materials should be removed from public space, from public places... [[Happy birthday, happy birthday.]] ...from places where the committee could have suspended them. But why can't I keep my apartment on the fence if I have this hobby, my candidate's banner for more than 30 days? [[Do you have a fence on your apartment?]] Next case. Change of circuits only because of changing the boundaries of the municipality, the number of elected councillors or the number of residents. Here, High Izbo, we move on to introducing these Commissioners. So far, High Izbo, those who were most interested, and those who were most, you can say, keenly interested in the outcome of the subsequent elections and their success, cut up the electoral districts, determined how the boundaries between the districts should run. A better situation in our view is that these districts should be proposed when the commissioners make changes so that they don't have to, as sometimes happens... [[The commissioners of the people, add, that is, PiS-owscy.]] ...so that there would be no chaos in some local governments, e.g. between the council and the mayor about how these districts are going to run. Here's another thing. Elimination of one-mandate districts in elections to the commune council. Of course, there are also a number of fake news on this occasion. Some people feel that the majority elections will not be held when it comes to voytes, mayors and presidents. It's obviously not true, they will. The case concerns only municipal councils. We sometimes hear that people from Białystok, Łódź or Warsaw are talking now, that we are politicising something, while in their communities nothing will change in their cities. High Izbo, why are we even proposing this? This is, of course, the argument that it is a matter for the large electoral committees to gain from it. This is a false argument that has nothing to do with reality. It's an argument of this kind to, as I understand it, hit the applicants, but I'm going to draw attention to the situation that we have at present, to the state of law, High Izbo. We have in the case of one-mandate districts, we have in the case of small and medium-sized districts calculated proportionally, we choose between 3 and 10 aldermen in each of them, and we have in the voivodship medium or large districts, we have in them choose between 5 and 15 aldermen. High Izbo! Isn't it an honest, rational solution to reduce the possibility of maneuvering in circles, including the introduction of Commissioners and the various doubts that someone might have? It is also a clear and rigid term that we choose from three to seven councillors in each municipality, county and voivodeship. This is, first of all, rational, second of all, readable... [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Ready, yes.]] ...and thirdly, it doesn't give you the ability to manipulate too much. So this is the solution, we invite you to discuss it. Someone might say there should be four to eight, somebody else, but the current situation seems completely incomprehensible. Just as completely incomprehensible, High Izbo, is the claim that this will lead to some politicisation of the elections. [[Absolutely.]] [[More local leaders, but only from the PiS.]] This is absolute nonsense, because in 2010, when there was such an ordination, committees outside the groups that took place in Parliament were 55%. votes, received more than 70% Councillor's mandates. Well, if this is a political election, it's hard to understand what's going on here. High Izbo! In fact, however, this change involves three fundamental situations and three fundamental threats that we want to avoid. The first situation is one that happens very often in small municipalities when the local popular mayor brings together all the councilmen, so that 15 out of 15 wins in all the districts... [[Well, that's good, since he's so popular. Does it hurt? Does it hurt?]] [[No, it's not. It's people who bring it in.]] ...when his committee gets twenty-six, thirty-thirty. Voices. [[But people chose.]] Second situation. The same thing happens, but it's the second round of elections, and in the second round of opposition elections, the candidate wins and has all the advice against himself, which starts with what? From lowering his salary to a few thousand, to the lowest... [[Maybe we shouldn't talk about lowering wages.]] [[And in Olsztyn, who did that? That's what PiS did.]] ...and torpedoing his work. High Izbo, these are situations to avoid. The third situation to avoid is that the councilman is not only interested in half of his village or half of his street, from which he is chosen, but in broader terms, in terms of the whole community, or at least a large part of it. Also, so that the mayor or the mayor does not concern the presidents, because in cities on the rights of the county nothing changes - they could not, in quotes, punish the councilman for asking uncomfortable questions and therefore do not spend money on a given council. I mean, that's the kind of situation that's happened. [[But that's what you guys are doing right now.]] If someone pretends he didn't or doesn't know it, then he's either completely naive or pretending and trying to lie. [[Ask the ombudsman about it.]] [[Here's what you do.]] [[This is your way of thinking.]] High Izbo! Another thing. Since we are introducing such solutions, we understand that this can make citizens' committees as difficult as possible, we are introducing a number of facilities for them. In municipalities up to 20,000. inhabitants will not have to exceed the electoral threshold, so it will often be enough to gather three or four people from a given district, from a given section, to run for office and solve the case. The next thing that is particularly important here is also the reduction, facilitation of various types of procedural cases for citizens' committees just in small municipalities, which have often faced various problems. [[Tonight, one man can turn himself in. And now he can't.]] High Izbo! The next issue is the abolition of the limits mentioned - not to count these flyers or other small materials - which is a convenience not only for the citizens' committees, but also for the candidates themselves who start up in these elections. [[There are no more candidates for this election.]] Here's another thing. The organisation of elections is being passed on to the electoral commissioners, as I have already said. [[PiS-u.]] [[PiS wants to take over...]] In the hands of the commissioners, because of course, it is better, of course, how the brothers interested in it organized. [[All power in the hands of the commissioners.]] Next case. Possibility of appeals, which is recorded in this project. Only a lot of you - judging by what I hear, how you behave in this Chamber - have not read it at all, because there is a possibility of appealing the Commissioner's findings... [[The chief commissioners.]] ...as far as these changes in districts are concerned. You'll be able to appeal... [[Who?]] ...to the State Election Commission. There is also a registered possibility to lodge a complaint against the State Election Commission, a complaint relating to the guidelines of the Supreme Court of PKW. [[The Supreme Court is yours.]] If these aren't fair solutions, then I have to say I'm surprised. Another issue is the territorial electoral committees, which will be everywhere, in all the fields, nine people, of which there will be six candidates selected from committees in all the fields, which in the parliamentary elections enjoyed the greatest support, but also those who have representation in the sejm of the voivodship. This procedure and this idea are postponed to all levels of the State Election Commission and all levels of district, regional and territorial electoral committees. High Izbo! Finally, the reform of the State Election Commission. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] Reform... [[Reform or deformity.]] ...of which we have often spoken as Law and Justice, which we think is needed, but which we want to introduce only after 2019, after the forthcoming parliamentary elections, without knowing their outcome. This reform is intended to lead to a renewed sense of security and a greater sense of stability, and that nothing is wrong there, especially as regards opposition groups, as it ensures that nine members are elected one by one, the Supreme Administrative Court and the Constitutional Tribunal, while seven are declared by the Sejm. And the biggest club in the Seym, even if it was 90%. places, may not have more than three representatives. So the biggest club can't have more than three out of nine representatives in the State Election Commission. Have. What do you mean, "have"? These are people who recommend to the State Election Commission. Just like we've been recommending for years... [[That's exactly what you know.]] ...to the Constitutional Court. High Izbo! Bottom line. This bill is intended to ensure as many freedoms as possible - and expand them - when it comes to the participation of citizens in the electoral process. It is to guarantee and strengthen the position of the councillors. It's supposed to make citizens who often trust their self-governments... [[Trust me even more.]] ...to have an even greater share in its power. It is intended to guarantee the transparency and transparency of the electoral process. It is also intended to introduce structural changes that will make it impossible and no one will be able to doubt how the electoral process was going on. [[Therefore, everyone will have doubts.]] These are changes and proposals not only compromises and not only taking into account the voices of local governments, but also often the voices of the opposition which fell in this Chamber. These are proposals to ensure that citizens regain their faith, full faith in the outcome of the election. [[Leave your faith alone.]] Also in a situation where we have such a worsening dispute, in which we have so often mutual accusations that are falling. The point is that everyone, all parties, all clubs, but also our citizens can be sure that they will look at each other's hands and that there will be no irregularities. High Izbo! I mentioned Zimbabwe. President Mugabe placed his office the day before yesterday. I hope... I encourage you to start today, High Izbo... [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] [[Bravo!]] [[That's right, enough Zimbabwe in Poland.]] ...work to ensure that the 2014 situation never recurs to undermine citizens' faith in the electoral process. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] [[Beautiful mind.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u285	I would like to ask Mr Andrzej Maciejewski to present the justification for the bill in print 2023.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u286	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear guests! Young people! I have the honour - because it is an honor, gentlemen - to present a bill amending the electoral code law, print No 2023, which, ladies and gentlemen, is the exact answer to what young people and everyone at the gallery have had the opportunity to listen for 45 minutes. We have an exact prescription and I'm glad that the Law and Justice, and the colleagues on the Platform are in agreement on one thing: we don't want to count six days after the election. Do we agree? We agree. We want clarity, simplicity and certainty as to how the elections were held? Do we? We do. There's no doubt about it. Do we want citizens to believe politicians? Do we? We do. [[Not all of them.]] No doubt, that's what we want. What is more, everyone is very clear about the fact that we want no votes to be void, we want attendance to be higher. It's time to answer why it is. And the answer will not please colleagues from the Law and Justice, either from the Platform or from the PSL, because unfortunately the fault is on the side of the state, the party. 27 years, not 8, but 27 years the Polish state is ruined by parties in local governments. That's the first thing we have to say bravely, [[Applause]] And end up whitewashing the grave... [[It was good before, wasn't it?]] ...saying she's hot. The voters say, it's not caca when they don't want to take the books in the elections to the county, to the regional government, they just say, "I want this card for the governor and the councilman." Question: "Why do they want to do that?" Why is the political class the lowest rated in the polls? I ask: Why? [[Because there is a poor democracy in Poland.]] Because they don't believe us. They don't believe us. It is time to make it clear, Members, that citizens do not believe us because we have failed them, we have deceived them. That's the word we cheated. The voters don't want to be fooled, the voters... [[Talk about yourself.]] ...they want to know why and have simple, clear, clear rules. Bo forum Foundation for Local Democracy Development in the balance sheet of the 2010-2014 term of office... I will say that this is the famous foundation, founded at the beginning of the term of office of Polish local governments. We read: In 2014, 2,14% were declared in the elections to the mayors, mayors and city presidents. Votes void, in elections to municipal councils and cities on the rights of the county - 5.16% , in the elections to the district councils - 16,67%, the highest percentage of void votes was cast in the elections to the sejmists - 17,93%. Note: in the elections to the councils of powiats and seymists there is an upward trend, to the councils of powiats - an increase of 8.49% for 2010 and to the seymists - by 5.87%. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the diagnosis. This is a diagnosis of social disease. The wisdom of the political class is to draw conclusions. And the conclusion is one: Party lists in local governments didn't work out. [[Applause]] No more party lists. And that's not why I'm saying this, ladies and gentlemen, that we don't like political parties. The parties in the democratic system must be. Poland has one problem: we have a partyocracy, a degeneration of the party system, and that is why we need JOWs. [[Applause]] The degeneration of the party system is like cancer, cancer, and cancer is treated with scalp and chemistry. Scalp and chemistry. [[Scalpel.]] [[You voted with the PiS for two years, and now the JOWs are killing you.]] And to blood, there's no other way. [[Voice from the room: Your coalitioner is eliminating JOWs, PiS.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the PO-PiS is doing great, I understand that, but today we're talking about simple things. Let's give local governments to citizens, give them to citizens. 'Cause what's the size of JOWs? What is the size of the JOWs? [[Voice from the room: On what?]] [[Voice from the O.R.: Nothing.]] First of all, the resident has real power, second of all, he has a choice... [[A human being.]] ...a man, not a party sign. [[Voice from the room: True.]] People in local governments don't want you. [[Applause]] They don't want to, it has to be made clear. They don't want any PiS, PO, Modern. They want Janek, Zdziśka, Marysia, someone they know, someone who's honest, decent... [[And it was.]] ...who is from their neighborhood, from their commune, is their man. Simple. [[Voice from the room: Yes, it was.]] They don't want party signs. [[That's what happened. So what?]] [[Voice from the room: Why are you bothering me?]] The JOWs allow residents to have real control over their councillor. They're sure they can meet him on the street, talk to him, ask questions, and account. And account for it. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Can't they now?]] [[And the party members go underground.]] The party's case is that a member of the party first responds not to the voter but to the President or President. That's the difference. [[Applause]] [[But you're explaining this to us?]] And the residents won't listen to the president of one, the other, the third. [[You have a bad experience at your place. It's not like that with us.]] They want to listen to themselves because they know best where to put the sidewalk. To put up a sidewalk, you don't need a party card to build roads, you don't need a party card. [[Applause]] [[And who brought in the JOWs?]] [[The Civic Platform introduced the JOWs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that the Platform's colleagues have forgotten their roots. [[We brought in the JOWs, man.]] I remember the famous rule: JOWs - yes. I remember the rule: no more party funding. [[But talk to them, 'cause those JOWs are taking them out.]] But you're talking about things we haven't done. Kukiz keeps his word. [[Voice from the hall: How many JOWs have you introduced?]] [[Voice from the room: Calm down.]] Kukiz keeps his word, which is why we raise our weapons and fight, not hide behind TV cameras. We don't run on the street while on November 15th, 500 people, on Wednesday, in the middle of the week, at 3 p.m. 12, from all over Poland, from different structures. [[Yeah, I saw one in a T-shirt like that.]] Chiefs, mayors, mayors, presidents, not necessarily from Kukiz - in the defense of local governments, JOWs. This shows that the JOWs really function, are needed and are a proven structure, not an abstraction. And it's not an adoration by party leaders. Ladies and gentlemen, our project... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Because JOWs are simple, JOWs are simple. I understand that politicians, especially party politicians, don't like what's simple because they can't be turned around. [[But talk to them.]] I'm talking to all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, our bill, the contents of our bill, there is no second, third... [[But talk to the PiS over there, because they're taking out the JOWs.]] [[We brought in the JOWs, man.]] ...fourth bottom, it's simple. That's the rule of the JOWs. Our print doesn't have little letters, it's simple. In fact, at this point there is only a question of political will and civil courage, and the Polish political class lacks the courage to say that something needs to be changed at source. Something needs to be changed at the source. Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing we pay attention to and what we speak clearly is the campaign expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen, today's election campaigns have become a theatre in which form is more important than content, than man and what he really represents. Today, in fact, money is the most important thing in the campaign. Not every citizen has as much money as your parties. Many of my colleagues from other parties say, "Yeah, but you have JOWs in the Senate." I answer: no problem, let's agree that we end your funding for the next four years, that all party-social structures have equal access to all media. And we'll talk about the election result in four years. [[Applause]] Equal opportunities for everyone, these are JOWs, but you don't want to change that. [[But please, there's a TV piss.]] Mr President, I see everyone, believe me. [[They've got SKOKs, they've got money.]] In other words, let's give everyone a chance, and let's not announce a big election race. You're sitting in a limo, and you're giving motorbikes or roller skates to the citizens on the local committees. And we say race. Ladies and gentlemen, this cannot be won. It's just a forgery for good morning, in broad daylight, in nice white gloves. In other words, the campaign is to be a campaign, not a show, a show that costs unnecessary, wasted money. We agree that excess flyers and posters today are an exaggeration. We are all fighting for the architecture of cities, we say that this architecture cannot be dirty, so let us start to respect the wood we have in Poland. Here I address all parties who care... [[She's letting Bialowieza go to Professor Szyszka, please.]] ...about the paper - I will also let go - and at the same time about the real money spent, not about thousands, because at this point these thousands mean one thing: that they have to be repaid in various forms. And the campaign is to be simple, clear and clear. Is this formula gonna like the party? No, because the parties have money. Citizens don't have that kind of money. The parties have access to the media, each party has its own media. Better, worse, more friendly, national, more capital-related somewhere, but he's got media. Citizens don't have media. Let's give them a level playing field, and there's a level playing field on the card where the names are placed. It's not a sign. It's a name. Let this card be the final element of the campaign, not the thickness of the wallet, which is actually one big show, charm and deception. Ladies and gentlemen, we want JOWs everywhere. In our project we pay attention to the districts and voivodships, because in the municipalities it works and we assume that it will continue, because the JOWs in the municipalities have proven themselves, operate and are in very good condition. So I assume that the parties in this parliament will not eliminate something that works very well, efficiently, does not last six days and six nights, there is no forgery, there are no judgments. The fact that you're fighting with each other is your problem, but people in local governments don't want it, they just don't care, they just don't care. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to have a simple situation in the powiats and in the local government. The question is how. The determinant is the representative standard on the basis: the number of inhabitants equals the potential number of councillors. This means that at this point many structures can decrease. For example, the Opolskie sejmik can count 12 people, while the Warmia-Mazury sejmik - 17 people, but the Mazowiecki sejmik can grow. In other words, let's make this number real, and at the same time give this representative opportunity, so that residents of the counties and voivodships start to take it seriously, stop putting these cards away, and start looking at people who are trying for this mandate, a very important mandate of the councilman and want to implement it. When it comes to the principle of two-cadence, we, unlike our colleagues on the right, do not have small letters and we speak clearly: two terms. Here we are open to discussing 5-year terms, but counting from the next election, not backwards, because we play clean cards, open cards, and we don't mix, we don't have small letters or small numbers... [[Voice from the room: So do we.]] ...because these are JOWs, and our idea of purity of JOWs comes first. Ladies and gentlemen, I encourage everyone not to be afraid of the citizens. Don't be afraid of the citizens, because today in the cockroaches, you came up to me one at a time from different clubs and you said to me, "I'm crossing my fingers for JOWs, fight for those JOWs." [[I don't.]] I know that your presidents have a different opinion because at this point they lose control over you, over districts, voivodships, counties. There is nothing worse than the fact that the president, the chairman, the leader has no real influence. That's his problem, because at this point he's really unnecessary or very limited in his abilities. The strength of the JOWs, even at the seymical level, is that people, as free citizens, without a party commitment, who stand for themselves, and not by the will of the party leader, can build small homelands. As a candidate from the party lists, they become a hostage of the party. You can see it well in the Seyms' votes. These votes are supposed to be consistent with your conscience, and you often vote against your consciences, because it's just party decision, end, period - that's how it works. [[Applause]] Self-governments don't want that. Because in order to be a good voivodship, developing, there is no need for party will, leader, sonekura are not needed. Here you need honest, decent, smart, educated people I know, admire. I know I can rely on them. I hope that all the clubs will agree to our project, which is, I think, a historical event. This is the first time that we offer all Poles a prescription to eliminate a kind of mess after each election. Show me the election when there were no problems where the party lists were. It's always been a mess, there's always been a circus of uncertainty, of understatement, of distrust. Let's stop this and change Poland together. Ladies and gentlemen, Poland is one. There is no Polish PiS, there is no Polish PO. There is one Poland - the Republic of Poland. Let's do something good for her. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u287	Thank you very much. I'm handing over the lead to your marshal. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]] Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The Sejm agreed that it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles in the joint discussion on these items on the agenda. I'm opening a discussion. I would ask Mr Marcin Horala to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. [[Applause]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u288	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have just heard a bravado attack on the authority of the presidents by a representative of the group who even has his name in his name. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] As I understand it, this means that Mr Paweł Kukiz has nothing to say in your group and does not decide anything. [[I'm not the president, sir. Something's come up.]] [[There's only one president.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As the applicant said, this parliamentary project to increase citizens' participation in the process of selecting, operating and controlling public administrations is a project which has one part, which so far seems undisputed in the public debate. Nobody criticizes her, it's a very rare public debate. I suspect that criticism focused on other elements of this law also serves torpedoing this uncritined part, but this is just my suggestion. I am very pleased that we, Members of the Law and Justice, have succeeded in creating a bill that cannot be attacked in a significant part. I'm talking about the part about increasing citizens' rights... [[He's attacking himself.]] ... those we are dealing with after the electoral process, in the exercise of power in local governments. [[Voice from the room: Time!]] Yeah, yeah, I don't have a countdown, Marshal. [[Voice from the hall: Then don't be reviled.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u289	But he's counted, calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u290	Thank you. [[Oh, we add two minutes to each club, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u291	We're gonna fix this, take it easy.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u292	Ladies and gentlemen! These are solutions resulting from local government practice, from this problem, which we have in Polish local governments, a huge problem occurring especially at the level of municipalities and cities on the rights of the county, i.e. absolute domination and sovereignty of one-man executive authority. Unfortunately, Polish self-governments, of course not all of them, in a significant part, have become generous dukes of wojites, mayors and presidents. There was a term: Alderman helpless. People feel like the councilman can't do anything in this government. We're responding to this problem. We give a number of competences to both citizens and the councilman, a single councilman, first and foremost to the opposition councillor, as well as to the civic budget, as well as to the citizens' legislative initiative. These institutions function in some local governments, not in some, but even where they function, they often become an ornament, a fiction. [[Time.]] A number of tricks are introduced to make it difficult for citizens to use these institutions. We legally guarantee this possibility. It is publicity, registration, transmission of city councils, municipalities and district councils. It's a recording of council votes, so that it's no longer so that the councilman in the election campaign will say that he was seeking a solution, supported some solution that he voted against on the city council. I know these cases personally. This part, I understand, is uncontroversial, and this part is the most important part. This is the essence of this project. Another segment of the proposal is what will affect the fairness and transparency of the electoral process itself. [[There will be no more honesty.]] Extremely important solutions. Increase the access of men of confidence to all election committees. Ensure that the election material, that the ballots will become a document and will be kept in the state archives for 2 years. In the event of an electoral protest, in case of doubt, you will be able to access it and check it out. This can be done by the PKW, and can be done by the ruling court of the electoral protest. On-line transmission, what happens in polling stations. Any citizen will be able to check for irregularities. Guarantee, above all, for the opposition, that it will have a representative in each electoral, regional and territorial commission. [[You don't look at us, we won't be in opposition.]] If only the Modern Platform, Kukiz, PSL will report their representatives, they will have representatives on every election committee, they will be able to watch, look at all parties, whether there is an irregularity. It is a pity that such solutions were not in 2014, perhaps then... [[Too bad it wasn't on Podkarpacie.]] ...there wouldn't have been any irregularities. [[And how was the Podkarpacie?]] Another extremely important solution is the admission of Polish social organizations. It was also a certain puriazum that foreign, international organizations could appoint observers and observe the course of elections, and Polish social organizations could not. Why? And here even an organization like the Committee for Democracy will have the opportunity to do something useful for once in its existence: appoint observers. Let him observe how elections run, whether democracy in Poland is respected. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[How about another chewing gum?]] Finally, structural change. Two cadences of the mayors, mayors and presidents. The applicant representative of the Kukiza project has not read that it is counted forward. The first of these two terms will be the next term of office after the elections. So that's another part of disarming this power of the mayors, mayors and presidents, this... [[I thought you guys pulled out of this.]] ...that sometimes we have life's wojews, mayors... [[You guys have a CEO like that.]] ...that the transfer of power takes place solely on the basis of an anointing by the outgoing mayor or the outgoing president. This power will be limited. [[What kind of anointing did you choose? Something's wrong with you.]] Democracy of elections in municipalities, because that's what it's all about to eliminate one-mandate electoral districts. This is where I'll refer to the Kukiz Club's application. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been waiting for something concrete in this accession, and I have been waiting for some concrete arguments behind one-mandate electoral districts. [[It's all arguments.]] No, there were a number of noble slogans, but completely empty in substance, without any fact that would support these claims. For example, such a claim that one-mandate electoral districts are conducive to local committees, while introducing proportionate ordination will promote parties... [[It's true.]] ...or rule out the participation of citizens in the electoral process. Of course, citizens can continue to register electoral committees, as they have so far, and no one forbids it. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] [[Can one do the committee?]] Mr President, this is a very valid, very important question. Do we want to manage thousands of people, a million-dollar budget to allow someone who is unable to organize three people and a electoral committee? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[But he doesn't want to, he wants to do it alone.]] If anybody wants to be alone, they shouldn't be running complex human teams. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Are you talking about the President? You want to take the president?]] [[Voice from the room: Calm down.]] [[Voice from the room: But why are you yelling so much, calm down.]] [[What kind of waving? You're not gonna point a finger.]] Your Marshal... [[♪ The bell ♪]] The fundamental flaw of the JOWs is the total distortion of the will of voters expressed in elections, the total distortion. The results of bodies created in one-mandate circles and the composition of these bodies, these organs, are absurd. It may happen that there will be two committees in the neighboring municipality. In one committee he got 30% support and in the other he got 30% support. In two neighboring municipalities. And now in one of these municipalities will have an absolute majority on the council of the municipality, and in the other, depending on how the results of the other candidates spread out, there will be no representatives. And here is an example, especially for the Kukiz club: the city of Rumia. The Committee, which gained 26.5% The votes are 71.5%. parking tickets. That's a miracle over the urn. Like out of 26% votes do 70% parking tickets? It's perfectly legal in the current ordination. [[Applause]] In Bytov with 40% The votes are 71% parking tickets. In Kwidzyn with 27% The votes are 62% parking tickets. [[In the Seym, of 25%, there's 50%.]] And now a mystery, what kind of local apolitical civic committee has such successes been celebrated in these JOWs? The Civic Platform. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: People.]] [[It hurts you, it hurts you.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I understand... [[You don't understand.]] ...that this ordination is inconvenient. It is inconvenient for PSL, because the current shape of ordination in local governments is tailored to PSL. [[This ordination will take revenge on you.]] We hear it's wrong that we want to make bigger circles in small municipalities and smaller districts and seymikas. It's illogical. As in the municipality, the smaller, the better, and as in the sejm, the bigger, the better. We propose a clear, simple principle of the same size circle at each level. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] If we are talking about null and void votes, maybe it is because citizens vote in several different ordinations. Now they will have the same ordination. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Simple.]] I understand that for PSL this ordination is inconvenient, because PSL was the main beneficiary of the irregularities in 2014. [[Hey, buddy, we're gonna be okay. Don't worry.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In my city, Gdynia, the city - unfortunately, I regret, but this is the case - the domination of the liberal electorate, the city's PSL in 2014 in the elections to the Sejm increased by 1000% compared to previous elections. [[You don't want that, we want to change it.]] [[They're proportional to the seyms.]] There was a translation - now I am talking about irregularities in the electoral process and honesty of elections - that it was an extremely popular candidate in PSL. [[Joy in the Chamber]] The same candidate received 300 votes a year later in the elections to the Sejm. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[It's called a miracle of nature.]] This ordination is intellectually inconvenient for the Kukiz club, which unfortunately also appears in this debate, because you are unable to go beyond the level of analysis: JOWs - well, not-JOWs - wrong. And you can't see the world beyond that. [[Applause]] [[And you do the opposite: the party - well, everything that is not the party - wrong.]] There are 50 pro-Citizen solutions in this bill, but you do not refer to them at all. And finally, the uncomfortable issue, we'll probably still talk about it, for CWB and PKW officials. [[♪ The bell ♪]] - more work is required of them. But the electoral order is not to make it comfortable for PSL, Kukiz, CWB officials... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Only to the PiS.]] It's to make it comfortable for the citizens...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u293	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u294	...to ensure transparency, transparency...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u295	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u296	...the integrity of the electoral process. [[And citizens are the only legitimate PiS.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u297	Thank you, Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u298	And this ordination, these changes we provide. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Room voice: Bravo, Marcin!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u299	...for acting on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. I'm going to ask the MP to speak... [[Voice from the room: Civic Platform.]] [[Voices from the room: From the platform!]] ... Platforms. [[You're wrong about the marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u300	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u301	I am not assigning you to any other club. [[Near the European Democrats.]] Civic Platform, Mr Sławomir Neumann. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u302	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Finally, it is time to say a few words of truth about this ordination, because so far we have heard all lies and we have seen the complete hucka that you are making out of a serious debate. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: O Jesus...]] This election ordination project is an anti-Citizen and self-government-stubborn project that is disproportionate to any reality in any normal country. [[Applause]] Anti-Citizenhood because you are eliminating the one-mandate electoral districts that the Civic Platform introduced in the municipalities and which allowed independent, independent candidates to start... [[Voice from the Civic Platform.]] ...the residents of the settlements who wanted to do something for these settlements. It was a close connection between the councilman and the residents of the estate and the residents with the councilman. You force these people to join political parties, you force these people to create local citizens' electoral committees, but even that doesn't give them a chance to get a ticket. Why? Because you're stubborn about this government, because you're making small electoral districts, three-mandates, you're introducing informally. A 20% electoral threshold that no small committee can jump. [[Applause]] You do it consciously and cynically. The 20% electoral threshold in the case of the three-mandate electoral district, which you are so eager to talk about, is the elimination of independent, non-partisan candidates and independent, non-partisan citizens' committees. That's your goal -- you're taking away the opportunity to get tickets for those people who aren't dependent on you. You guys love to invoke the sovereign, except in this case, you really want this sovereign to be incapacitated. [[Applause]] You will disallow the sovereign who voted for individual people in small monomandate districts, which were the victory of the Civic Platform after a long debate. We introduced them to the municipalities, you take it away. You want these districts to be elected commissioners appointed by you. Not the government anymore, but the commissioners are supposed to cut up the constituency for you to make it easier for you to win the election so you can manipulate this election. [[Applause]] And to make it even more interesting, it doesn't have to be common court judges anymore, independent, independent. No, it's enough that they'll be lawyers who, when they draw the constituency, will do the party will of the PiS. That's what you want, to change the ordination so that it can affect even the shape of electoral districts. This is absolute arrogance and pride. You're assuming that if you don't have strong candidates, you're going to eliminate strong local competition. This is your idea. If the citizens' committees aren't yours, then you're doing everything you can to deprive them of their chances of parking tickets. This is the real purpose of this ordination. This is the real purpose of stubbornness, no, of writing the local government. [[Applause]] You like it the most, as you do in companies, institutions, inserting your Pisiewicz people without a competition. Insertion, nomination and there it is. Your misfortune is that you can't do it in government. Unfortunately for you, elections have to be held, so you manipulate the electoral authority to determine the election result before these elections take place. That's what all the rules are for. Unfortunately for you, elections are a necessity, which is why you create the electoral right to manipulate the results so that you can finally enter the government through the back door. [[Speak for yourself. You're not our spokesperson.]] Elections need to be able to win, not to write ordination to win. You have to know how to win. [[Applause]] [[Room voice: Bravo, bravo.]] You're doing everything you can to make sure your weak candidates, those Pisewicz, can hide behind the party sign. And this party sign will bring them in because you're erasing strong local candidates who aren't partying aren't on local committees. [[Voice from the room: The tape is jammed.]] This is your absolute plan. And the two-channel you were talking about. So you wrote it in this bill, that with a little bit of bad will - and the bad will in you is excess. in each case [[Applause]] - can be interpreted as a two-channel backwards. It's a record. [[That's right.]] That's exactly what I'm saying. [[Can you read with understanding?]] Read with understanding. With a little bit of bad will, and with you, this bad will, as I say, is excess, you can interpret it that way. [[This is hysteria, sir. This is your hysteria.]] If your intentions are fair, cross out this article quickly. Next thing. You're building a second election committee to count votes. Why? No one really knows, because talking about the fact that the first committee is tired is an absurd thesis. But I understand that this is... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You're gonna listen to me for a second, because this might be important to you. [[I listen all the time, I have divisive attention.]] For you it is natural, such a leninist, no, the Bolshevik rule, and the Bolshevik thinking, the Bolshevik thinking is common and popular with you... [[What are you telling us?]] ...no matter who votes, no matter how votes, no matter who counts the votes. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] You want your committee to count the votes. That's your plan. This threatens real manipulations at the elections, which is why we are going to file a motion to reject this law in its entirety, because it is absolutely anti-democratic. [[But you've surprised us, sir.]] She's against the local government and she's stubborning the local government. [[That's surprising.]] We can promise Poles one more thing. [[Member Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: Don't promise.]] No matter what they come up with, what records they make, what they put in there, we'll be ready for these choices. The Civic Platform and the whole united opposition. Under the terms you propose. We'll be ready for them. We'll offer lists to all those independent local governments you want to get rid of. And along with all of them, [[Applause]] who want to fight for an independent government, for an independent government... [[No one's gonna give you as much as the Platform promises, no one.]] [[And who's gonna go to your compromised sign?]] ...we're gonna chase you down with a cat in the local election. [[Applause]] [[Jaroslaw.]] Next year. You'll see, you'll find that the manipulations of the electoral order will eventually turn against you. We promise you. [[A ten-dollar bet? A bet of 10,000.?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u303	Thank you very much, sir. Another person acting on behalf of the Platform is Mr Jacek Protas, but you will allow me to greet a group of students of the Pedagogical University from Krakow, whom Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk invited to the Sejm. I wish you a pleasant tour and positive impressions of the Sejm. [[Applause]] And now Mr Jacek Protas, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u304	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is not for the first time in this term of office that we begin to proceed with a law that is important for local government, which is important for the government of the Republic of Poland without prior consultation with the local government, without passing this project to the Commission of the Joint Government and the Territorial Government. That is why today we must speak here not only on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, but also on behalf of thousands of Polish self-governments who do not have a voice. Ladies and gentlemen! This project is a brutal attempt to bully the local elections, no matter what you try to push us in here, Mr. President. Abolishing one-mandate electoral districts, reducing these districts to three four-mandate districts will eliminate many active Poles, many active citizens from society. We're gonna put them out of their minds. The Poles need to know that the method of converting votes into mandates favours large party groups. [[Voice from the hall: Don't the JOWs prefer it?]] This is your way of getting elected committees, social electoral committees and small political parties. [[That's how you won the Europarliament.]] You want to, yes, you want to, by introducing three-mandate electoral districts, do it through the back door, not in the election process. That is not all, the boundaries of the new electoral districts and their size will be arbitraryly appointed by your Commissioners, who, according to the provisions of this law, may be members of political parties. Yes, political commissioners will cut the electoral circles so as to increase your chances of victory as much as possible. This Hungarian-Turkish scenario is also intended to extend the monopoly of the power of the PiS to insubordinate and independent local authorities. In addition, the number of candidates on lists is limited in the elections to the councils of municipalities and powiats. No, so far, the number of tickets times two, but the number of tickets plus two. [[That's right.]] It is forbidden to run at the same time as the mayor and to the council of the county and the Seymists, and finally the term of office is introduced. [[Either to the right or to the left.]] And it's backwards. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: There is no backwards.]] This is not only a harmful solution, because you eliminate many leaders of local communities, but also non-constitutional ones, because you take active electoral rights away from citizens. The only way to implement this solution is through the Constitution. As is the case with the President of the Republic. It's in the constitution. Few of this, the new rules on the organisation of the electoral process contained in the project can lead to complete chaos and paralysis. [[They can.]] The president of the State Election Commission was just here. He talked about it and warned us about it. In such a short period of time, it is not possible to effectively prepare a system to ensure the efficient conduct of elections. In addition, the cost of carrying out the forthcoming elections will increase by about PLN 300 million. A separate committee to oversee the voting process, separate to count votes, unnecessarily increases these costs and complicates the whole system of holding elections. The IT system, which caused so much trouble in 2014 - no one is questioning it - has been refined and tested over the last years, but will now go to the trash. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How do you want to prepare a new IT system within a few months so that you can count your votes efficiently in the near future?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u305	Mr President, finish your speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u306	In conclusion, the amendments to the electoral code proposed by you aim only and exclusively at stubborning elections, eliminating active, non-partisan Poles from the public space and reducing the opportunities of small social committees and small political parties. We cannot support such solutions. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u307	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Kukiz, please speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u308	Dear Marshal! Dear guests! Dear Warriors! Ladies and gentlemen! At the same time, I offer my condolences as a teacher's husband after graduating, by the way. High Izbo! Mr Schreiber, rapporteur. I know that you aim for such a system so that in the Polish Parliament a father, son of a father... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: And grandson.]] ...and one as a paratrooper from Bydgoszcz, from Łódź, I'm sorry... [[But high flights, sir.]] ...and in the local government in Bydgoszcz so that the whole family of Schreibers can also embrace Bydgoszcz. [[Applause]] As you are telling me, Mr Reporter, about citizenship, I will ask you about the scandalous way in which this law is being passed. Where was the consultation? Where was the public hearing? You're talking about the electoral order, the way you choose representatives. You didn't listen to the citizens at all unless there were secret meetings with secret citizens in Novgorodska. It's either Torun or something. [[That's ironic.]] Mr Schreiber! I'll tell you one thing. No, no, sorry, I had to focus. I don't know what, because I wanted to say the names, but I thought I wasn't a poison signaler and I wouldn't. But your fellow Members, whom I asked in the clausades, why do you want to change this ordination... Tell me like this. Different kind of guys, not necessarily friends, 'cause you're gonna have a lead. But they say, you know what, man, 'cause we don't win the election there. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] And that's a simple answer. On such, listen dear students, Podkarpacie, when they make three, in the trimandat district they have the support, they take the whole seymika, they take what they want, because they want the ordination, they want the ordination in which dualism will arise, the rise of the PO-PiS, of course with the majority of PiS-owska. They just want to split up these circles so they can take everything. Councillors can be brought from one city within one voivodship. There's just one condition: they have to be from one voivodship. So I was just looking over there, and I was just... That's why I'm looking on a card because I have a lot of writing to do. Local councillors. The local councilman can be any resident of the voivodship. [[I don't understand.]] So they can be brought in files, e.g. Lipsko is 300 km away from Myszyniec in the Mazowieckie Voivodeship. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: From Warsaw to Gdynia he will go.]] I think the Czech Republic is narrower... And that's your citizenship. We consulted on our bill. Our people who came in here wearing JOW T-shirts were initially having trouble getting in because those T-shirts were in the way. By the way, you guys wouldn't mind a Bandana T-shirt because you don't want to change the legislation in terms of flagship penalization. [[Applause]] Stubborn PKW. Why do you insist on the PKW? Well, for a certain purpose. If you have courts, if you have TK, if you have everything, you will have PKW, then you will be able to do, to set up an ordination for each other at any time with a positive outcome. Simple. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Nothing concrete.]] You're talking about two-channel. I'm sure you can find instruments that end up with pathologists in local governments because they are. [[Mr Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: Yes, JOWs, we know.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Oh, wise Member, intelligent for a... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: There is only a threshold.]] He got it. No. The prescription is a referenda of appeals in an appropriate manner, that is legislation of this type. But I have a proposal for you because you want two-channel offices, don't you? Mr President, I agree with you on the condition that you agree to two terms in Parliament. [[Applause]] Would you agree with the envoy? Is that different? 'Cause there's smarter councilmen here, yeah, sitting around, like. Member of the Commission, or the father of the rapporteur... [[Voice from the room: Shame.]] ...and the rapporteur and the rapporteur's family in Bydgoszcz I don't know where in Łódź. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: The album is finished.]] JOWs or death. [[Bravo!]] I know you're picking the other one. [[Voice from the room: Death.]] And I'd like to invite... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: 10 minutes are too long to speak in substance.]] ...all non-party self-governments, I would like to invite all civil organizations and all citizens of the Republic of Poland to defend the subjectivity of citizens... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Read the project.]] ...to put the partyocrats dam to an end by political parties who have made a way of living, of keeping their families, according to the leeches who have been digging this nation just since 1945. [[Applause]] [[Sit down.]] And Allah will judge you for this, you believers. You'll see. [[Game in the hall, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[You've got ten more minutes, hello.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u309	I invite you to address Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, sir. [[Pudding boredom and not about.]] [[Voice from the room: Maybe now it will be substantive.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u310	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It was very substantive, and Judge Hermeliński pointed out in his letter of 22 November a question to his colleagues from PiS: Where is little Kazio, the author of the bill? 'Cause that's how it was brought down by the PKW judges, very close to you. [[Maybe the PKW will finally announce the results of the vote three years ago.]] Ladies and gentlemen, your bill has an apple formula that is very nice, shapely and appealing outside, and inside it is filled with poison, poison that kills citizenship. Because on the outside, you say this: transparency - yes. And there's no doubt about it. Husbands of trust strengthened. Live sessions on the Internet. No doubt, no one's protesting, ladies and gentlemen. Reinforcing the role of councillors. Reinforcement of the committee. The possibility of the councilman's intervention, as we have as Members. It's all this plus stuff. Ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you more: if you had proposed these changes in the municipal, district and voivodeship law as a separate law, it would have passed, it wouldn't have even blinked. [[Voice from the room: We agree.]] But this poison is what you propose in the electoral code. And in the electoral code, you eliminate JOWs, citizenship. We read in the explanatory memorandum: that's why you eliminate the JOWs and - note - that the commune council will be represented by all its inhabitants. It's in your justification. And in the article. 11 - this is the 5th change - we read that residents in the region will be able to run for this council. What's that supposed to mean? We got the sandwiches, we got the superiors in the files again? So what, you can win an election and have councilmen outside the commune? What do they know about the commune? What will the inhabitants know about them? You're doing, ladies and gentlemen, a party system. What's more, I don't know if you know, but you're already doing PO-PiS. Art. 157, we read, this is your bill, a proposal: if there are two parliamentary clubs - so it is written - the remaining candidate for the part of the State Election Commission draws lots in a given term of office of the Sejm. Mom's PO-PiS. Ladies and gentlemen, you're already working out that there will be a PO-PiS in the next term of the Sejm. And that's in this bill. [[Voice from the room: But it's only in 2019.]] [[Mr Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: If you act this way, it will end this way.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on. Two election committees. Ladies and gentlemen, a noble, beautiful idea. That's what all self-government people say. Self-government says so. It's cool. It's just not real. Unreal, because local government officials today have a problem with collecting the stakes for this, which today is offered to the willing. On two committees... [[You're kidding. The draw is.]] You're the one who's gonna have the chance to count all night. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no volunteers, this is unrealistic. And the question is, how do we do that? There's no discussion today that you don't. Question: "How can people want to work if necessary?" [[How much?]] Here's another thing. Selection by the Sejm of seven members of the State Election Commission - okay. That's what you've been trying to do since 2019, no problem. But why not a 3/5 majority? Why don't you want 3/5? If it's about citizenship, not partying, then let's do it... [[How about a 4/5?]] ...we can give you even more. Let's do it, ladies and gentlemen, let's do it. [[Maybe you guys can decide.]] Here's another thing. Election commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, county, municipal, electoral officer. Question: "Who will maintain it, and how much will it cost?" I didn't know the specifics in your bill. I don't know the specifics about the change in the computer program. Question: "Can such a program be real?" How much will it cost, and where will the money come from? That's not what you're talking about. The PKW clearly states - with your proposals for today, the computer system of the PKW is suitable for basketball, and the new system will not arise, otherwise, as we want to make elections, we count on foot and we draw the numbers. That's reality today, and it's not Kukiz's malice, it's reality, math. Simple thing, you have to count the posts, the left and the right side have to be equal. Ladies and gentlemen, another matter, abolition of the correspondence vote. In other words, it's not a large number of people, they're disabled people, people who have trouble walking. The possibility of a correspondence vote is this openness, and unfortunately you... There's a mistake around here somewhere, and there's a formula of confusion. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, let us separate the good concept of the right, necessary changes from the poison that is supposed to put citizens to sleep. I assure you, Kukiz15 won't let the citizens go to sleep. We will wake them up, going from the commune to the commune, from the uncle to the uncle, because they say clearly: we do not want to stand between the two waltzes - PO and Law and Justice, because this is really the point of these works. Self-government won't have a choice. Give people a choice. Let's vote for citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u311	Thank you very much, sir. I would ask Mr Mark Owl first to speak on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u312	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the draft law amending certain laws in order to increase the participation of citizens in the process of selecting, operating and controlling certain public authorities. It is difficult not to refer to the title of the Act itself. It's a common misdirection. This law is not about increasing control. This is about PiS taking over the government. This is a typical PiS jump on local governments - after the media, the Constitutional Court, after the courts that you now want to take over, to the fullest happiness you lack only local governments. I therefore propose that the title of the Act be changed to the Act on submission of Poland to the local PiS. At least that would be fair. [[We'll vote it out.]] In the post-war history of Poland there was already such a period, it was a time of communion, when Comrade Piotrowicz, like now, felt like a fish in water. [[Jarek Kaczyński also felt like a fish in the water.]] Changes to the electoral code are unacceptable. [[Applause]] We do not agree to the liquidation of monomandate districts in municipalities. After 1989, local councillors were never selected from the party lists. There has always been a vote for a specific person, and the councillors have been left with the greatest social support. We do not agree to cut out real socialists and representatives of urban movements. We do not agree that the candidates for aldermen are paratroopers from the other end of the voivodship. We do not agree to reduce the number of councillors in the districts to the Seyms. Such a system rewards large parties at the expense of smaller and really raises the electoral threshold to 20%. We do not agree with the politicisation of the State Election Commission by selecting members of the PKW from among the candidates submitted by politicians. The PKW should be independent of politicians and should be composed of judges appointed by the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court, not the political representation of the party. We don't agree to clean up the electoral administration. This project will lead to a real tsunami. We do not agree that the head of the National Election Office should be the party nominate designated by the Senate, the Sejm or the President. In a short time, a new army of politically distributed regional and district electoral commissioners will be set up. We do not agree with lowering the requirements that must be met. They've been judges so far, and now you're suggesting that they're just masters of the law. The important thing is that they're loyal to the PiS. This nearly 400-man army of electoral officials dependent on the party of power will decide on the division of municipalities, powiats and voivodships into new electoral districts. It's a crucial change that can decide on the election outcome. This will be decided by new and unprepared people, people who are not equipped with any analyses, sentenced to the mercy of the PiS and taken from Nowogrodzka. We don't agree to that. Councillors elected in free democratic elections should decide on a new map of the electoral districts, if necessary. [[Marcus, who wrote this to you?]] Although once again, I will point out that there is no need to change either the electoral districts or the voting circuits. Election districts should not be changed for the purposes of the party of power. I hope you'll pay for this because anyone who digs into ordination loses the election. [[Applause]] [[Better in ordination than elsewhere.]] It's hard to understand why you're changing your electoral circuits. People are used to voting in permanent electoral circuits - it's usually kindergartens, schools or fire stations. This change will not lead to increased attendance, it will lead to reduced attendance, because people discouraged by changing points will not go to a new circuit. It is difficult to understand why observers do not have the same rights as men of confidence. In the Act you write down detailed instructions on how to vote and count votes. Turn on the stopwatch. The chairman of the committee for determining the results of the vote shall take the card and check each party in turn. He's looking to see if the vote is important or not. He's looking for information on which election committee he's been given, the candidate for. After looking at the whole thing... [[Whether it's important or not.]] It's important here. [[But that's the way it's supposed to be.]] ...confirms: the vote given to the election committee, the candidate is valid. At least six members of the committee count these votes, notes. Everyone has a right to wish to check it out. That means there's $1,000. The votes cast, and we have four votes, which is 4,000. We'll have a few dozen hours to count the votes. And any member of the committee, as the probability figures indicate, may have a different vote. And then what? [[The commissioner's gonna figure it out.]] We were all shocked that in 2014 the counting of votes took so long that there were no final results. I want to tell you that with what you are proposing, it may turn out to be nothing, because we may not look forward to the outcome of these elections ever. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Right.]] In addition, we will pay over PLN 300 million for all of this. It's hard to understand the logic that you have. Why do you conjoin communities, districts to create a constituency, and in the elections to the Sejm, you don't allow the conjoining of districts? Because all you care about is the communes and the sejmies, because you're not there, because there's no one voting for you in the local elections. You're gonna lose this election. Last example, last Sunday. The candidate for Law and Justice appointed in the spring of this year as Commissioner by Prime Minister Beata Szydło in Kozłowo commune in Mazury lost with a mole. Only 15% The residents voted for it. It's a disaster. [[Applause]] I hope it's the same next year. When considering the draft of this law, you have to ask the PKW for an opinion, and this one is appalling; to say that it is negative, it is as if to remain silent. The PKW clearly warns us that it does not guarantee the smooth conduct of the elections. It draws attention to the need to prepare a new IT system because the current one does not meet the requirements of this draft law. And we all know there's not enough time left to prepare a new system. Ladies and gentlemen! PiS wants to give us chaos because in chaos it feels best, and as you know, in confusion you can do anything. [[Well, you know that better than anyone.]] You say you're doing this for the citizens. Yes, you're doing this for one citizen, for Kaczyński's citizen and citizens who are strongly connected to the PiS, [[Applause]] at the expense of other Poles. Because PiS prefers to divide Poles instead of joining. On behalf of Modernity, I apply for the rejection of the bill at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u313	Thank you, sir. The remaining part of the time will be used by Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus. But before you begin, you will allow me to welcome the students and teachers of Public Primary School No 3 in Radomsko, invited by Anna Milczanowska. [[Applause]] I hope your visit to the Seym will be a pleasure. And now I ask the Member to speak on behalf of the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u314	What village are these young people from?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u315	Radomska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u316	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members of the PiS! The project you present, the project of electoral ordination and changes in the local government law, is like a poisoned apple, because on the one hand you point to changes in local governments, the type of obligation to broadcast, record, publish, the obligation to adopt resolutions, civic budgets... But, folks, no one's gonna fall for that. These are things that are already in force. This is not some novelty that Law and Justice have invented. This is your laziness. Those things that you're trying to introduce in the local government act now, and what you're trying to announce to others, that this is your success, these are postulates of urban movements that you've never listened to, never. Another thing. Members of the PiS, the changes you want to introduce, especially the reduction of the electoral districts, will lead to the fact that the inhabitants of Radomska and other smaller towns will not have representatives in their cities, in the city councils, because you want to concrete the political scene. No one's gonna agree to that. That's why, my dears... You know why? Because cities and towns are not roads and buildings, but people and their dreams and no PiS-owiec, no Jarosław Kaczyński, no Schreiber Member and another PiS man will take away people's dreams. You'll see that people will fight for it. [[Applause]] [[Joan of Arc.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u317	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz - on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome, sir. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u318	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's proposal for a new ordination presented by the PiS Members is a draft of a rogue ordination - an ordination that is an expression of your fears and fears. [[Applause]] It's an expression of medication and fear that the colossus is actually on clay legs. When he comes to the election, it's true when the oil comes out. You're afraid of this election, so you've cut off your ordination. You made it so it would be convenient for only one party - for the PiS party. This is not the ordination of Polish and Poles, it is not the ordination of citizens, it is not the ordination of small homelands. This is an ordained ordained under you. You want to cut off the Poles' election. This is a rogue ordination and this is a thieving ordination. You want to steal an election from Poles. [[Applause]] You talk about integrity, you talk about transparency, transparency, transparency and meticulousness. [[Member Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: Worth listening to.]] Let's go back to 2015. [[Voice from the Chamber: 2014]] The State Election Commission chaired by Judge Hermelinski, whom I warmly welcome to our deliberations today, [[Applause]] conducts elections on the basis of the electoral code, on the bill. And what's that coming to? To the event without precedent in the history of Poland: one party wins and has full power in parliament. Does anyone in the opposition question the legality of these elections? But you want to eliminate... [[But don't yell.]] ... State Election Commission. You want to eliminate... [[Sit down.]] ... State Election Commission. You don't like judges. I want lawyers. Do you know when there was a State Election Commission in the shape you're proposing? In 1947, when were the most falsified elections in the history of Poland. [[These are their patterns.]] There were two judges back then. [[Applause]] And six people from parliament today are going to be two judges and seven people from parliament, but then it was better because each club had one person each, and now the biggest club is going to have three people. These are your nostalgias. Every step of the way, you fight communism, you fight communism on every street, and you go back to the worst of communism! From 1947! [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I'll tell you one more time the poem that our fathers used to say... [[One last time.]] ...our folks: The electoral Urna is such a box: you throw Mikołajczyk, comes out Gomulka. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] But we won't let that happen! We do not agree to plow local Poland. You had such a slogan: folding local Poland. You've been implementing them carefully for two years. First, you take your powers, now you're cutting ordination to your demands and your needs - not for the citizens. You take out the JOWs, you take away the little villages of your representatives. You don't want every council in Poland to have a representative. [[Yes, sir.]] What about standards? [[Applause]] You talk all the time about transparency, transparency. Poland is developing, we are moving forward, more knowledge, more skills - well, lower standards. Not the commissioner's judge, but the commissioner's lawyer! Without apoliticity, or perhaps in a political party in a moment, as closely associated with you as possible. The judges who held the 2015 election did it wrong? Answer that question. Were the votes miscounted when you were winning? It wasn't there. We're not reporting it. [[Unfair.]] In fact, you should start today with one apology. Since apologies to thousands of Poles working in 2014 in the State Election Commission... [[2014?]] ...in the circuit boards because you're the ones who won that election. [[Books. What about 14?]] You won the 2014 election. You won the 2014 election, but you can't build a coalition and that's why [[Applause]] You couldn't rule. That's the problem for you. You should apologize for the smearings of the twisted elections. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Let PSL apologize.]] Two years you've got the Attorney General. Where are the indictments? Where are the interrogations? Where are the guilty? [[Applause]] [[Vladek, don't explain yourself to them, do your job.]] This ordination is a rogue project. It is a mine laid under fair elections in Poland. You had a choice: cheating or losing. [[Joy in the Chamber]] You chose to cheat, and you're still gonna lose. [[Yes, sir. Bravo!]] [[The mines are slim, as you can see.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u319	Mr Piotr Zgorzelski will also speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party. But, Mr Behr, before you begin, allow me to welcome the NSZZ Solidarity delegation Mahle Behr from Ostrow Wielkopolski. I think you're leaving now, but I hope you enjoy your stay in the Sejm. [[Applause]] I would like to ask you to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u320	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President of the Polish People's Party! You don't have to wait for an apology, because it's just a lie coming out of your law and justice buddies. You know damn well, [[Applause]] You know damn well that election wasn't faked. They weren't even faked... [[No, they faked themselves.]] ...and I'll prove it in a moment. Well, at the 91 communes where he won the PiS, the average of void votes was 20.3%. At 253 communes, where he won the PSL mob, the average percentage of void votes was 21. In the country it was 22,11%. They were, however... [[Voice from the hall: What about the Seyms?]] ...the commune, where the percentage of votes that didn't matter was much higher. It turns out that there was a municipality in the Aleksander district, the municipality of Koneck, where 35% of the votes were invalid. The gate is over there, beware, where did you come from? From PiS! [[Voices from the room: from the PiS!]] And ask him why there were so many unimportant voices. [[It's the last time.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, 5% of the votes were void in the communes. , in powiats - 10% , in voivodships - 30%. This difference is due to one fact, to the representative standard and to the knowledge of candidates. That's the whole truth about void voices. [[Applause]] That's the whole truth about void voices! And in the entire pool of votes, 80% of them don't matter. They're empty cards, because they're just citizens... [[Yes, sir.]] ...they don't know the candidates for the reasons I said, but also because of the fact that the client of the Marshal's Offices... [[But you really believe that?]] ...is usually an institutional client. It's the whole truth about votes that don't matter, about fake elections. There were no fake choices, and the votes aren't what I said. If they were... you have, as the president said, two years, all the servants. And what did you do? Is there one indictment? No. What did you do? You've ruined the cards. That's what... [[There are no ballots, sir, what you are saying.]] ...for the PiS were destroyed the cards that could prove an alleged forgery. And that's the truth. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: Well, you can't tell the difference between a cow and a camel.]] According to Mr Wojciech Hermelinski, the proposals of the PIS were made by people who do not know what the elections are and the PKW itself has not even been asked to refer to the proposed changes. Despite this, the State Election Commission states: "After an analysis, we have come to the conclusion that we cannot rule out disturbances or even destabilise the electoral process, unfortunately we cannot. The State Election Commission warns you, and we warn you. Let's face it, how this new anti-Citizen Act will work. It's actually a recipe for some kind of self-government scripting. [[Oh, dear.]] The State Election Commission is in fact to become a political body controlled by one party, one leader. You guys know that from history? We do, even from the latest. [[From yours!]] What is the liquidation of one-mandate electoral districts in municipalities of up to 20,000. residents and introduction of proportional choices in all categories of self-government? This is in fact a way to extremely politicise selected advice and obvious advantage of political parties over electoral committees. In fact, it is a deadly blow to civil society. [[Applause]] The amendment requires the preparation of a new IT system serving local government elections. However, work on it will not be possible until the electoral commissioners have divided into electoral districts, and the county commissioners will not set up a circuit. This means that there will be very little time to prepare a new system before the local elections. The PKW alarms that you won't make it in time to destabilize the electoral process. And then there's the two-channel theme of the mayors and the mayors. Polish People's Party proposes the following rule: if two-channel, it is common. Back us up on this. [[Applause]] In view of the above arguments, bearing in mind the fact that the law is anti-civil, threatens fundamental rights and freedoms, it is incompatible with the Constitution and, above all, harmful to society, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party submits a proposal to reject the project at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u321	Thank you very much, sir. And I ask you to take the floor of Mr Ireneus Gaina, near Free and Solidarnia. You're welcome, sir. [[No vaseline!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u322	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo!.... [[Remember, you got in with the JOWs!]] [[Applause]] Marshal, please calm down. [[The JOWs got you into the Sejm, remember that! Thanks to this password!]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Kukiz.15 is bothering you.]] In this situation, High Izbo, I would like to read an open letter from Mr. Cornel Morawiecki, Marshal of the Seym of this term. Dear Paul, my former leader! Never compare anyone to garbage. Messengers, your colleagues? Is that okay? In the election campaign under your leadership, we put the request of JOW in the elections to the Sejm. In September 2015, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) The Poles refused this card. The referendum convened by President Bronisław Komorowski, supported by the Kukiz election committee15, had ca. Eight percent turnout. The current dispute in the Sejm concerns JOW in the elections to local government. So far, the practice of choosing mayors and mayors has exposed various shortcomings. [[This is where they don't change mayors.]] How long are you going to go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and We're asking you to come to our senses. [[Applause]] Just now, from this platform... It was an open letter from Kornel Morawiecki to Paweł Kukiz in connection with his Facebook statement, in which he compared us, Members, former Members of Kukiz.15, to garbage. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Just now, in his statement, Mr Paweł Kukiz said that either JOWs or death. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to live in a country in which dictatorship, any dictatorship, threatens us. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Oh...]] [[There.]] And in this case, we would be threatened by the doctrinally ideological dictatorship of one-mandate electoral districts. [[So the JOWs are the dictator.]] I wasn't supposed to start with my speech, but a provocation and a fight. Paul made me do it. [[That's right, not a problem.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the law and justice project has numerous shortcomings... [[No...]] ...but today it is a project that we should proceed with, we should reflect on its final shape in committee, because the situation that took place in the local elections in 2014 exposed the shortcomings and errors of the electoral ordination which was then in force. First of all, it is about the system of counting votes already mentioned here, which caused that we could not know the results of these elections for 6 days, but also about other errors, which also make the election result imperfect, distorted. I would like to tell you that from my local government experience, the JOWs are not a prescription for all the problems of local government. [[That's not what you said on the campaign.]] [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] That's what I said. That's what I said. JOW... [[Voice from the room: The point of view depends on the seating position.]] [[JOWs or political death of the PiS.]] Your marshal, really...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u323	Speak, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u324	I'm asking you to save time for me, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u325	Speak, or the time will pass. [[The campaign's coming, it's gonna be different again.]] Mr Ireneus will gain: As far as the JOWs are concerned, let us imagine that those who get the majority in this election, let us assume that at a level of twenty-seven percent, receive a majority in the Council of seventy-seven percent. We have numerous examples of this, almost common examples throughout Poland, especially in provincial Poland, that in smaller cities city councils were dominated by committees of wojites, mayors or presidents. This makes the majority of the population really separate from being able to influence what is happening in the local government. You can't let that happen. The Kukiz-15 state took the definition of the Wikipedia JOWs and made it a dogma, a divine commandment. You can't do that. Perhaps there are places where the JOWs will have good application, but it cannot be generalized and described as panacea for all the problems in the country. [[Applause]] [[That's why they have to be eliminated.]] As regards the other proposals mentioned here - my time is shorter because I represent the parliamentary circle and not the parliamentary club - I would like to say that unfortunately, the honourable Members of the Law and Justice Club are not a good solution to the change in the State Election Commission because the balancing of the authorities and these three divisions of power are to be preserved. It is advisable for the judiciary to control the executive authority and for the executive authority and the legislative authority to control the judicial authority. This penetration, the balance of the authorities is extremely important. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Thank you.]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In this situation, I move that... [[About rejection at first reading, great.]] ...to direct both projects to further work in the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You have no honor, unfortunately.]] Thank you very much, sir. [[Wait a minute, sir.]] [[Where are you going?]] I would ask Mr Michael Kaminski to speak on behalf of the European Union of Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u326	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Why are you so upset, so anxious when, uh, you're in charge of the election ordination? Well, the last two years have taught us how you feel about democracy, about freedom, about normality. It's a little bit like that if you see a box of matches and you take them into the hands of a normal person, there's no reason to worry, but if a box of matches takes a pyromaniac into your hand, it's something to be afraid of. [[Applause]] If this pyromaniac, and this is what we're witnessing, takes a flamethrower into his hands, there's really something to be afraid of. [[Applause]] The question is, of course, why are you so afraid of the local elections. You're afraid of them, and that's why you want to mess with the electoral ordination. Well, perhaps you don't believe that the people want to see what they've been watching in parliament for the past two years, even in their little homelands. As for what we've been watching in Parliament for the last two years, I wouldn't have had five minutes to talk about the search for magnetic weapons, the destruction of the cultural palace, and finally what we witnessed yesterday, i.e. about the appearance of Our Lady here, the singing of God, something of Poland, and all that seems entirely insulting and insulting of religious sentiments in our religious fanaticism, as we witnessed yesterday in the Sejm commission. So? Do you think the Poles want this circus? In your little homelands, too? Today we learn that in order to get to a certain university, you need to have a certificate from the parish priest. Perhaps that's why power is needed in local governments, in order to connect the sewers or pave the street, the approval of the parish council is needed. I don't tell jokes here. Your minister, the minister at the President's Office, offered bishops in the Senate because he wanted a religious republic. Perhaps you want such small religious republics in every municipality, and that's why you want to take over the local government. How many more Misiewiczs in our small, local Poland are waiting to take their positions? How many more little Rydzyks are waiting to be financed richly every day? [[Applause]] I have heard much of Mr Schreiber's speech here today. By the way, I would like to tell Mr Kukiz that mocking the fact that someone has a father in parliament is not the thing that I sign up for in any way. I can argue with Mr Schreiber if I don't like what he says, but I can never think of mocking the fact that he and his dad are in parliament. The voters have chosen them, and they have the right to do so. These are not arguments, Mr Kukiz, which we should use in the public debate, regardless of who we are using them against. Mr Schreiber spoke here about fake news. For God's sake, a man of a political party who wasn't afraid to talk about people being killed in Smolensk is talking about fake news? A man of a political party whose national defence minister is looking for a non-existent electromagnetic weapon is not afraid to talk about fake news? Fake news, which is supposed to be news. You guys are supposed to be a parliamentary club. in a supposedly parliament and you have a pretend government and a pretend president, [[Applause]] Because, in fact, Parliament is brought to the will of one person. How many more small presidents are waiting in our small homelands, in small Polish communities, in small Żoliborz, to rule our local Poland? That can't be allowed. This revolution you want to run downstairs can't be allowed. Why? Of course, sometimes something happens to you in these small local homelands to shock you. Indeed, you can be shocked that your councilwoman in Poznan officially protested that donkeys have sex too loudly. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] You probably want these little Polish homelands to do this, who is having sex loudly. As I said from this stand, you are obsessed with sex and history and want to bring this obsession to local Poland. That can't be allowed. Poles want to solve their cases at the level of local Poland, not to bring your historical and sexual obsessions to this small Poland. There are certainly still many donkeys in Poland who have to track sexual life, there are still many streets to change the name, there are still many buildings to destroy, but that is not what local government is for. We're all here to build, not to freak out. What I'm trying to say is that I hope the united opposition... [[United opposition. That's good.]] ...but also local election committees [[♪ The bell ♪]] they will show what local Poland is, which corresponds to our dreams. Certainly not one that matches your phobias and your obsessions. I'm filing a motion to reject this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u327	Thank you very much, sir. I would like the floor of Mr John Klaviter, a non-associated Member. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u328	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The right hand of the Republic, which I represent, has from the beginning advocated a thorough political reform based on the majority electoral order. We are therefore strongly opposed to the proposals presented by the majority of the government to liquidate the majority ordination in the local elections. [[Applause]] Single-mandate elections should be extended to sejmikas and powiats and should not be closed. [[Applause]] The main feature of today's Polish political system is the dominance of ideological and programmatic differences by the ambitions of party leaders using their parties to solve endless conflicts. This is at the expense of the implementation of specific social commitments and the capacity of the groups to cooperate. The introduction of majority ordination at all levels of the elections is seen as part of the necessary reform of Polish policy. The PiS proposal goes in the opposite direction. Elections in local elections should be facilitated and not hindered by participation in elections by all active citizens and local environments. [[Applause]] The PiS proposal makes it possible for a person to be elected subject to decisions by party authorities or interest groups. This is a clear restriction on civil liberties. [[Applause]] From the beginning, the Republic's right has consistently demanded changes going in the opposite direction, increasing civil liberties. Small electoral districts eliminate smaller committees. The need to strengthen, not weaken, the personal responsibility of politicians towards society. You need an authentic self-government, not putting it into a power game. The fight for one-mandate districts is vitally important in the system, because it brings back the individual responsibility of every politician, every Member, every councilman, in terms of his own conscience and responsibility before the Socialist. Today, they are less accountable to the People's Party and more accountable to their party leaders. Therefore, the fight for one-mandate districts is of fundamental importance of a civilization and decisive for the future of our country. We are also negative about the lack of extensive public consultation on the project. While there are a number of proposals in this project that actually support the role of society in the creation and control of local self-government bodies, they are of less importance. That is why we support the project of one-mandate electoral districts. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u329	Thank you very much, sir. I will ask Mr Robert Winnicki, a non-member, to speak. [[There isn't.]] There's no envoy. As we have concluded our speeches on behalf of the clubs, we will move on to questions on this item on the agenda. Would any of your messengers and your fellow Members still want to be on the list? I can't see. So I close the list. The question time will be 1.5 minutes. So you will have time to check your speeches so that you do not exceed that time. Mr Wojciech Hermelinski, President of the State Election Commission, spoke before asking questions. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u330	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to stress that the role of the State Election Commission is not to assess the reasonableness of the project presented by the applicants by the project promoters. The role of the State Election Commission is to evaluate the proposed provisions on the electoral code, because that is all I will focus on, in terms of their usefulness and guarantees, so that the next electoral process that awaits us, the local government elections, as well as the next, can be conducted in the manner that so far, i.e. efficient, fast, without endangering its course, without the threat of disturbing or even destabilizing its course. As far as speed issues are concerned, with transparency, we see in the draft a number of provisions that are undoubtedly positive. I'm going to start with, for example, the election card, which is a rough card, which is basically our consultation that we had with the voters, had a similar effect: the voters were mostly in favour of introducing a rough card. We also accept and very much welcome the changes that apply to, for example: trust husbands are being designed a whole new chapter on trust husbands with a significant extension of their powers, as well as the issue of cameras that will be installed in electoral premises, in particular if they are directed at a committee that counts votes. This also applies, of course, to the provision that causes the local government elections not to take place at the same time as the constitutional referendum proposed by your President. These are the pros we see, but the point is that these pros don't cloud our cons. Because there are unfortunately a lot of these negatives and we are looking at it, as I said, through the prism of guarantees that will give us the opportunity to conduct elections in a timely manner, as we have done so far in 2015. There are two key issues: the issue of electoral commissioners and the question of the National Election Office. These are two of our weapons, thanks to which the State Election Commission can act efficiently and can have the support of institutions that have been tested and with which it has been cooperating for years. The issue of electoral commissioners. It must be said that the projectors, by introducing electoral commissioners who are not judges, are clearly leaving the judicial system. Commissioners who have so far been appointed by the State Election Commission are judges who are designated as candidates by the Minister of Justice. This is the first sieve that candidates go through. The Minister then presents these nominations to us, but we, on the basis of the entire dossier we receive from the Minister, can also hold a meeting with the candidate on the basis of our knowledge of the judges' candidates, and after this meeting, after examining the documents, we are clear whether this is the person who will properly carry out the duties of the electoral commissioner. And what is worth emphasising is that judges, or the quality of independence, independence is in this case the characteristic that characterizes judges. For this reason, the legislator in 1990 considered judges to be those who would ensure honesty and objectivity in the election process. The projectors propose to move away from this system and introduce, instead of Commissioners of Judges, Commissioners whose only requirement will be to have a higher education. It will be 16 regional commissioners and 380 district commissioners whose National Election Commission will have to set up within 2 months within 60 days. I would like to stress that the appointment of 400 electoral commissioners within 2 months by the State Election Commission, which consists of only 9 people, is almost bordering on a miracle. I would like to draw attention to the fact that I am getting the views, which are also expressed by the Members of the Projectors, that this is not a problem. The Commission has 400 officials, a huge financial budget, and therefore there is no problem with recruiting these candidates. However, I would like to draw attention to a point, as the electoral code states that Commissioners are appointed by the State Election Commission and they are agents of the State Election Commission. How can we, as we are suggested, establish a specific outsourcing, headhunter companies that will recruit candidates? This is not recruitment of employees or managers to a company of commercial law, but it is recruitment of people who must have professional preparation, practical preparation, knowledge of the electoral code. Therefore, it is not possible to appoint or recruit candidates for election commissioners to other companies, even officials from the National Election Office, because they are, with all due respect, officials who are not qualified do not have the appropriate knowledge of electoral law to make such appointment. In this respect, only those who we trust and who we will be sure will carry out the duties of the electoral commissioners in a proper manner can be our agents. Another point I would like to mention is the Commissioners. Namely, new Commissioners are given new responsibilities, which will be transferred from the municipalities' councils to Commissioners in terms of the division of municipalities into districts and also districts into circuits. We here, as I said, are not dealing with substantive issues. Issues related to one or other substantive provisions for the State Election Commission are of little importance. We are interested in the issue of regulations that will allow for the smooth conduct of elections, but if you take away the obligations to divide municipalities into municipalities' councils, you have to remember That it wasn't the mayor who divided the communes into districts. The uncle's just making a request to the council. I think that the council, which consists of 15 and 45 councillors depending on the area of the commune and population, is somehow able to cope, but if this is the will of the projectors, then I just want to draw attention to the following. The current system of division of the municipality into districts is three-level, i.e. from the municipality, then there is a reference to the Commissioner and at the end - a reference to the State Election Commission. There's no further judicial appeal. The project shortens this three-level system to two-level: it will only be the decision of the Provincial Commissioner, after which it will appeal to the State Election Commission. For this reason, in the current state of law and in the legal form of the designers designed by you, there is no legal appeal to the court, and it must be borne in mind, and I am giving consideration to the applicants, and above all to the Members, that 1,5 years ago, the Constitutional Tribunal in the case of signage. Act P 5/14 stated that the failure to appeal against the decision of the State Election Commission, which ultimately confirms the decision on the division of the municipality into districts, is contrary to Article. 45 constitutions, that is, with the right to court, and with the article. 165, which guarantees the judicial protection of local government units. The Court has made it clear that the administrative court to which an appeal should be sought is competent. This is something that the designers, the designers, do not mention, and this is undoubtedly a very important issue for the municipalities and for the voters in the municipalities. If they feel victims of the division, they should have the right to appeal to the court in the end. And one more thing about the commissioners. Namely, it is designed to reduce the number of Commissioners from 51 to only 16, which will be contrary to the rights of committees wishing to submit a notification of registration... [[Voice from the room: No way.]] ...because, for example, There are six commissioners in the Mazowieckie voivodship, so even if a committee that was founded at the ends of the voivodship wants to register, it has a short way to the nearest commissioner, it is several kilometers, it does not have to go to Warsaw almost 200 km, and this threatens to reduce the number of commissioners. Only up to 1 in each voivodship. I am not saying that this, let's say, discourages, but that it will certainly be an element that hinders this communication and the possibility of registering, all the more so because the Provincial Commissioner has only 3 days to register the application, and remember that on average in each voivodship several hundred committees are reported. In the Mazowieckie voivodship there are an average of 1 000, therefore it is unimaginable that within 3 days the newly elected Provincial Commissioner, who has no experience in this respect, can register these committees at that time. And another case, which is important to us. The second pillar on which the State Election Commission bases its tasks, its activities, is the National Election Office. The Head of the National Election Office under the electoral code is the executive body of the State Election Commission. He is also Secretary of the State Election Commission with an advisory voice and is appointed by the State Election Commission at the request of the Chairman of the State Election Commission. It cannot be forgotten that on the shoulders, so to speak, the National Election Office has the entire burden of making choices in an administrative, technical, financial sense. The State Election Commission is only nine judges, with no staff and no budget. If projectors now want to change this system and propose to deprive the State Election Commission of free choice of its co-worker, because we are working with the National Election Office, otherwise it would be impossible to hold elections if they wanted to bind the hands of the State Election Commission and make it possible for the State Election Commission to select from among the three candidates submitted by the political authorities... So this political element is being transferred to a potential head of the National Election Office, which is not advisable when the State Election Commission is an apolitical body, and it would be good for the apolitical body to cooperate with the State Election Commission. This is a bit like in this case with the Ford car - you can choose any color, provided it is black. Here, too, project promoters are trying to limit or essentially deprive the State Election Commission of the free choice of a collaborator at the head of the office on which the elections are based in a technical sense. It is also important to bear in mind what is obvious that the newly appointed head of the National Election Office will certainly want to rely on employees to whom he trusts, i.e. new people, which will cause further perturbations related to the electoral process. Please note that the State Election Commission has two months to appoint electoral commissioners. Election commissioners have three months to divide the municipalities into districts. The district commissioner's got another month to split into circuits. It's been six months now. In addition, there are perturbations related to the National Election Office. One more thing I want to say is that this is a matter of, I have to say, a unfortunate cross to be placed on election cards. As defined in one of the first proposed provisions, it is said that the cross - and here is the symbol of this cross, i.e. x as it is in the Polish alphabet... At the same time, it is written in the definition that these are at least two intersecting lines, i.e. the appearance of this cross does not match its definition. If it is said that these may be at least two intersecting lines, you can imagine different ways of voting. This is the one who has been such an iron rule for years, has been in previous electoral orders, also in the current one. [[President of the State Election Commission Wojciech Hermelinski presents boards with the signs discussed]] If such characters appear, because such characters can of course appear if, for example, they appear. such a sign, so-called. Hashtag or other combinations of these lines, I'll admit I'm seeing it in black. Like a voter who's used to his old system, he's gonna put that sign right, [[Applause]] So you don't interfere with the vote-counting process? [[The cross is bothering you.]] I fear that such signs will undoubtedly have a problem with the peripheral committees which will assess these stamps for the validity of the vote or its nullity. Because remember, the rule so far is: if there is a cross intersecting in the grate - the voice is important if another sign is placed, some, I don't know, a bird or a circle, whether the box is blurred - the voice is automatically invalid. And now there may be a problem for the voters, and I don't know what a government of greatness it will be, but I know that these voters sometimes happen. The winner will put a cross in front of the candidate's chosen name, then he will change his mind and want to blur the cross, remembering that there is an iron rule - a blurry cross means a voice that is invalid. He's gonna want to nullify this vote because he's gonna think that he doesn't want to vote for this candidate, he doesn't want to vote for that list. And the problem arises because his voice will be treated as an important voice, because if all such voices with such a sign as this are important, then in fact the intentions of such a person are distorted. I repeat, I don't know if it's going to be a larger or smaller row of size, it's not about quantity, it's about principle. Unfortunately, some voters will not be able to exercise their right to vote because the law will turn into a kind of coercion. The victor won't be able to get out of this anymore. One more thing - an IT program. Here there are various kinds of terms or different kinds of proposals. First of all, I would like to say here at the address of the Members of the Projectors: he is located in Poland, the servers are in Poland, they have always been in Poland, so please do not give information which is false. [[Applause]] There was never a situation that any servers or any elements of the IT program were outside of Poland. Currently, the IT program is owned by the State Election Commission, which is to put it simply - the Treasury, because it was created only and exclusively, from the very beginning, by employees of the State Election Commission, who are permanent employees, I apologize: the National Election Office. So that this system works, he's prepared to make the choices, even though they're only a year away, less than a year away, but he's ready to make the local elections. He's been through a series of tests and he's gonna be running tests. If we are now making changes to the electoral code and, as I have calculated, only after 6 months will we know how the municipalities are divided into districts, into circuits, then only then will the IT specialists be able to modify this already prepared IT program. This module, because it is several modules, one module concerns local elections. It takes a minimum of 3 months for this modification, and the next at least 3 months, if not more, will be needed for tests. Because if these tests aren't there, unfortunately it could be a disaster, it could happen in the same situation as it was in 2014. It is not as simple as I hear from some Members that what a problem it is to adapt this IT program to a new division into municipalities or circuits - it is only a matter of pressing different types of buttons or doing some simple operations. That's not true. Buttons this, I'm sorry, can be pressed in the elevator, but this is not a matter of making modifications to the program, which is an auxiliary program, yes, but thanks to it we can successfully count the votes. We were planning on giving the election results the next day before noon, not in the morning, but in the early morning. On the other hand, if these changes which the projector state wishes to implement come into force, I am unable to determine when the results will be reported if - I say this, I apologize - it will come directly - at all within the time of the election. I would like to stress that we are not led by evil will. We discussed this very deeply at the meeting of the State Election Commission on Monday. We are not guided by the will not to make these choices. We want to carry them out. Especially since you all have proof that we did it well in 2015 - presidential elections, parliamentary elections, referendums. Since then, since 2016 there have been complementary elections and local referendums held in many local districts throughout Poland, more than 1600 of them since the end of the year, and there are also no signs of possible violations of law or any kind of... not to mention forgery. That is why it is particularly sad and hurtful for us, and it is unfair, if voices are cast, still unfortunately - I apologize, so I will state - there is a reference to the slogan: the 2014 elections. Just split two lines, please. There are issues of flaw in the choice of an IT program, which really hastily chosen did not function because it had just failed to pass these tests, there was not enough time to check it out by the end of the program. On the other hand, when it comes to matters relating to the way of voting, I think that one of the Members was right here, I no longer remember the name, as well as the inability of voters to mark the crosses. I remember the 2015 election when, despite our rather intense campaign, which promoted and explained how to vote, questions were constantly raised: Can we vote on the table of contents? There were voices like that, too. So, please bear in mind that, however, they are not fully able to use the ballots, especially now that this new card is being introduced. Therefore, the last thing I want to stress. If the Member State, the projectors, the High House, believes that the electoral system should be changed, removed from the judicial system... Although I admit that there is no justification why he is bad, because the 2014 elections are not a substantive argument, nor is it a substantive argument that the PKW is in some kind of arrangement. I can't ask you to answer what kind of deal I'm in and who I'm dealing with, no one wants to answer that, but the password keeps repeating that we're in the system, [[Applause]] This password is constantly repeated, which is an unfair and untrue slogan, and I ask you to refrain from this kind of argument. I was hoping that I could argue with some substantive arguments from applicants, designers. [[Shame on those who sit there.]] Unfortunately, they didn't die, which I'm sorry to say. Ladies and gentlemen, that's all I wanted to say. We, I stress, want to hold elections all the time, but we want to have a guarantee that the rules that these elections will introduce, proposed by your Members, will be those that will enable us to do so. Now it's in your hands. Thank you very much, Marshal, for allowing me to perform. [[Applause]] Thank you, Members.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u331	Thank you very much, President of the State Election Commission, Mr Wojciech Hermelinski, for taking the floor. We proceed to ask questions at this point. You are starting with Halina Szydłoko, a club called Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u332	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The chairman of the State Election Commission in one of the interviews stated that it is important to remember that it is the State Election Commission that examines the party's financial statements. Those who will dominate the committee will therefore be judges in their own case. Can this really happen? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u333	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform. Here's another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u334	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm not going to talk about the chaos that introduces this bill, the big costs. All I'm gonna say is that you're taking active citizens away from taking part in local governments when they don't belong to any party. One of the pissed off residents gave me today a meter - until the end of the Law and Justice term. One year, 11 months, 18 days, 6 hours, 26 minutes. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, this meter is ticking fast. [[Then your time will run out, Member.]] Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Room voice: E, weak.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u335	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u336	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Requestor! Mr Schreiber, I know that you are a decent man, but after what you said here today, you will not go to communion on Sunday because you are talking about a pro-Citizen democratic package. What kind of a pro-Citizen package is it that deprives, in practice, the possibility of being the councillor of these inhabitants of individual cities, towns, municipalities and districts? What kind of democratic package is it that is, in fact, a complete denial of the principles of democracy? This is directing us into the darkest black abyss of the partyocracy. On the one hand, you're talking about lifting the 5% electoral threshold. , but as President Neumann rightly pointed out, the real threshold at the three-mandate district is 18.20%. So what are these pro-Citizen and democratic changes? Then I ask further: Is it true that the essence and purpose of this project is that you finally win where you have not even issued a letter so far? There are circles. In Opole, from which I come, there are circles in which Law and Justice did not even issue a list. Today you create such a principle that the entire voivodship is a district, so it will be possible that your party companions living in the capitals of voivodships, employed in companies of the State Treasury, in various agencies... [[But you're having dreams.]] ...they'll just be their families, their friends sticking out on those letters in places where [[♪ The bell ♪]] You don't just have structures...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u337	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u338	...but you have no support either. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u339	Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Modern Club. You're welcome. There's no envoy? [[Voices from the room: There it is.]] There it is. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u340	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The law amending the electoral code a year before the elections is the next step of the PiS in destroying our state's system. A party that had been unable to win the local elections on its own for a long time, seeing in its failures constant conspiracies and manipulations, decided to exploit the fact of being in power. The PiS, desperate for victory in the local elections, decided to manipulate the boundaries of the electoral districts, tampering with them, so that they would match the support achieved by the party in the region in question, in order to increase their chances of victory. Another downside of this bill is the elimination of correspondence voting, which was a great facilitation for sick or ill citizens, but who would like to participate in these elections. This bill will take away that opportunity, unfortunately. Also, giving greater powers to the chairman of the committee, who will calculate votes, is not an advantage, but is a disadvantage that will only extend the time taken to convert votes. How many votes is he gonna count? One day? Two days? Three days? After all, mostly the electoral circuits are located in schools. Maybe the schools won't be able to move on Monday because the State Election Commission, the committees, the electoral circuits... it'll still be counted. How much will he count? Two days? Three days? Answer that question. [[Applause]] [[Let them count three days, but honestly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u341	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u342	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! You have no substantive arguments, that's why you're lying. You lie in the morning, you lie in the evening, you lie at noon. Yesterday you lied, today you lie, and tomorrow you'll lie. [[Applause]] Example. Yesterday, the D.A. here convinced us how important the sovereign is: it's the sovereign's will, after all, we can decide everything because the sovereign, because people gave us power. What are you saying today? No, that sovereign downstairs doesn't count, in the government, the sovereign doesn't count because we have power. You're still a sovereign. So you're lying. So when did you lie? Yesterday or today? Yesterday you lied and today you lie. [[Voice from the room: That's already been done.]] I'll show you another lie. [[And the question of election?]] There's not much time. Another lie. You write that the chairman of the review committee should be from the opposition club. I'll give you an example. I don't think you need a better one. In Podkarpacie, who's in charge? [[Voice from the room: PiS!]] PiS. [[Law and Justice, sir.]] What group is the chairman of? What group? [[Voice from the room: from the PiS.]] From PiS! Are you lying? You're lying. So tell me the truth. Why are you lying? 'Cause you're afraid you're gonna lose this election 'cause your defeat is already in the air. You'll lose even in the Carpathian. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u343	Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u344	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First two words about this 2014 and these elections. I wanted to remind the ruling party that at the time, after the elections, which aroused huge resistance and huge controversy, you were not at the PKW. It was the National Movement who called the demonstrations. It was the National Movement that demanded the resignation of the PKW, which finally came to effect and Mr Jaworski was replaced by Mr Hermelinski. You were then cut off from the manifestors whom we called. This was your attitude in 2014, so do not abuse this 2014 as an argument. That's one thing. Secondly, as for the law itself, there are good things there. Yes, there are good things there, such as lifting this electoral threshold in municipalities of up to 20,000, some kind of technical solutions. Yeah, there are things there that are worth commending. But the whole bill is, I'd say, deep dead. Today, in small municipalities, there is a problem with the casting of one electoral commission. You guys want to add to the second election board. To get people there, you're gonna have to pay twice as many people, four times more expenses. This will be a practical effect. And finally, when it comes to JOWs... I am not a dogmatic JOW-owski, but the JOWs make the most sense where they are closest to people, just in small municipalities. And as a boy from Wings, I appeal: don't take our councilman away from us. Don't take us in the councilman's community from JOW, because the Upper Wrestlers and the Upper Wrestlers are small enough villages. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I don't think they're gonna have...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u345	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u346	...the councilman in your proposed system. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u347	Mr Waldemar Andzel, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u348	The electoral code law is very much needed and long-awaited and proposals for law and justice have been implementing electoral demands for many years. If someone's lying here, I think it's PSL. He's been lying in this House for years. [[Applause]] I have a question. The main drawback of one-mandate electoral districts is the lack of real representation by them of the real will of voters. The basic rule of the JOWs, the winner takes everything, means that the candidate with the highest number of votes, winning an average of 35,40% , is elected to the alderman, while the remaining 60 and 65 per cent voters do not have their representative on the council of the municipality. In extreme cases, a candidate with 20% may be the only representative of voters in a district where 80% did not vote for him. voters, that is, an overwhelming majority. Isn't proportional electoral ordination simply fairer from the point of view of the citizens who have the right to expect the will expressed by them in elections to be as closely illustrated as possible in the composition of the commune council? [[Who wrote this to you, Waldek?]] We as Law and Justice have always stressed that proportional ordination is the best and far more just than JOWs, which are not life in any case. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u349	Thank you very much. Mrs Halina Rozpondek, Civic Platform, will ask another question. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Your marshal doesn't give up driving.]] Unfortunately, there's a set order. [[How much?]] About an hour. 18 finishes the lead. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] That's nice, but unfortunately there's a division.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u350	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would just like to remind Mr Andzel that in 2011 all the Members of the House of Law and Justice voted in favour of the Code of Election. I would also like to point out that this work, which ended in 2011, lasted 2 years, and the most important partner in the adoption and procedure were the members of the State Election Commission - precisely so as not to duplicate the mistakes that you spoke of by the President. We have spoken with all local governments, associations, some of the proposals have even been taken into account, but the most important thing is that the State Election Commission had 3 years to introduce these new provisions of the electoral code. 2011 and the elections were held in 2014. I think that this is very important and that is what you should consider, because today you want, in the course of, I don't know, one or two sessions of the Sejm to carry out this bill, which, as I said, should be examined for at least a year. I have a question. What was the purpose of the projector's record that the passive right to vote for the bodies constituting self-government units should be allowed to do so throughout the voivodship? The central idea of self-government is to be close to people. Whether you simply want to carry activists who won't get caught in one city or in one municipality, to carry them in folders [[♪ The bell ♪]] To the others?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u351	Thank you very much. Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u352	A similar remark is attached...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u353	... Łukasz Rzepecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u354	...with one-mandate electoral districts. [[Applause]] [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]] [[Bravo, Halina!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u355	Thank you very much, Member. Don't prolong the time. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u356	Thank you, Marshal. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question for the authors of this bill, to the Member of the applicant: What are you afraid of? I'll tell you what you're afraid of. You're afraid you're gonna lose the municipal election. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] And you know it. That's why you're in the polls, that you already know today that you're gonna lose the next municipal election. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, if the Members of the Law and Justice defend their fellow Members who hide behind immunity and want to introduce a two-cadence office in the local government, I say one thing today: let's introduce two-cadence in the Sejm. If you want to bring in a two-channel. [[Applause]] backwards in the local government, let's introduce two backwards in the Polish Sejm. [[One term is enough for you.]] That's the most important thing. And I'll tell you one more thing, and I have a question for you: What are the worse self-governmentmen than you parliamentarians? Nothing for me. As Members, we should be equal to our citizens, and first of all we should talk to local governments and ordinary citizens. Today, when you gamble in the electoral order, you cheat Poles, just like you did in the fuel bill. That's when the Poles won and you didn't make the bill. I hope you'll back out of the election raid as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: Are you bald?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u357	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Pudłowski, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u358	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS! You often rely on something big, use big words, and talk about how you want the Republic to develop as well as possible. This bill shows the opposite. You're showing that all you want is to cover as many local places as possible. You don't want to choose the best people, because if that were the case, the ordination would look completely different. This ordination is designed to create conditions for you to win, to ignore individualities that are good, socially recognized, locally - they will not enter the local government - ignore urban movements, ignore social groups. All these centers and social groups will turn away from you because they see your true face. It's all about power. [[Voice from the room: Good, very good.]] The point is that one party will rule in Poland, will appoint for all offices, and one person in this party will make decisions. But what will happen, honourable Members, when this person changes? What happens when the system changes, and it's not you, it's someone else you don't trust who's gonna rule? You're creating a bad system. You create a system of evil not only in the country, but also in local governments. Come to your senses. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u359	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Bejda, a club of the Polish People's Party. Please, sir, ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u360	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the applicants what is the real cause of the changes in the electoral order. Last Sunday in Kozłowo Municipality in Warmia-Mazury Voivodeship, the candidate for Law and Justice lost with another candidate by nearly 4 to 1. In October, the PiS candidate lost to two other candidates by 4 votes to 1. In September in Novgorod... [[And that's how it's gonna be.]] ...in Podlasie, the PiS candidate lost by 20 votes to one. I could say that for a long time, but I'm gonna ask you the Latin maxim: Cui bono? Why, for whose benefit? And let's face it: the PiS as an anti-government party, a centralist party, anti-Citizen party, taking freedom and the right to self-determination is simply afraid to lose these elections. You already know today that you lost them. These windy polls are untrue because they're verified by local elections. Just tell me the truth for once. That is why I ask again: What is the real cause of changes in the electoral order? Thank you very much. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u361	Thank you very much. Mr Richard Galla, not associated. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u362	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I regret to say that once again we are debating an important bill, this time concerning the functioning of local governments, as a project submitted by a group of Members, and I would say, almost in conspiracy, because, as I remember, it was Friday late in the afternoon and probably even the Sejm Office at that time had a day off. I would like to ask, perhaps I would start with the Minister, whether the government is aware of this and calculated the costs associated with the introduction of this project, all the more so because we see a very clear increase in costs, even though we will have voivodship and district electoral commissioners, that we will have double committees, because there is a committee to hold elections, to count votes. Do we know these costs? Did the government also plan them in the draft budget? My second question with regard to the electoral Commissioners is addressed to the Member who represents the Members making this request here. In fact, they can be citizens who have legal education. Did you also consider party membership? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it gonna be that they're gonna be people who have the right ID and they're gonna make the right choices? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u363	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Aleksander Forczyński, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u364	Dear Marshal! High Commission! It is always the opposition that should have more guaranteed rights during the vote in order to be able to look at the hands of the rulers. This is what Law and Justice were talking about in the years 2009 and 2015. Was this guaranteed in the bill today? Is it true that the right to direct the work of the audit committee controlling the management of the voivodship will be reserved for the opposition club? That is the far-reaching transparency, honourable Members... [[What's it like in Podkarpacie?]] ...for which each of us wanted to fight in the past, which was not, which we are striving for today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u365	Thank you very much. Mr Mariusz Witczak, Civic Platform. Please, sir, ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u366	Thank you, Marshal. The rapporteur, Mr Schreiber, argued the need for change, spoke about the great problems with the various elections in Poland, had reservations about the electoral process starting in 2010. He said the problem was getting worse over the years. I would like to ask you what we will do, Mr President, with the 2015 elections, because these last elections, as I understand it, are the apogee of this crisis and the apogee of this problem. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the hall: Yes, yes.]] You must bear this problem and tell us how we are going to get out of this problem. He also tried to offend the intelligence of Poles in terms of intentions regarding the need for changes in the electoral order. This intention, sir, is obvious. From the very beginning you have been building in Poland such tools that are supposed to give you a guarantee that you will never give back the power gained once. Here is where Comrade Wiesław Gomulka bows down. I understand that in your environment this kind of authority is eternally alive and will guide you with its own wisdom in building all the solutions that will guarantee you power. [[What are you talking about?]] The assassination of the Constitutional Tribunal, the assassination of the Supreme Court, the assassination of the National Election Commission and, finally, the State Election Commission, which is to be a stubborn committee. This is an outrageous situation that reminds us of Belarusian standards. Lately there's this very fashionable pattern that's attached to you, i.e. the Kremlin standard, [[♪ The bell ♪]] A pattern you're fighting very hard against. I know you're going this way. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Oh, my God.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u367	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz.15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u368	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the applicant on the part of the Law and Justice. If the JOWs are so bad, why do all the party candidates hide party signs before the local elections and call themselves: I love the commune, I love the county, my homeland, my little homeland, my big heart? [[Applause]] The signboards, the party banners, everything's buried. There isn't, there isn't, I'm not anywhere. Why do people do that? Why are people ashamed of the party? That's my first question. Second question: Do you really believe what you're saying that the JOWs are the main culprit of the fact that the recent elections and all the elections in recent years have had problems with counting, with votes that are not valid? Do you really? Are the JOWs here the destructive factor? Do you really believe that this is the main factor? Or are politicians a factor? Or maybe the factor is people who give face to politics and make voters say: I don't want people like that, I don't want signs like that? And one more thing. Have you considered, and this I am very serious, to consider, in our system, that there should be another grate on our cards: I have no opinion, I hold back, I am against everything? I think our system doesn't have that option: I'm holding back. We have this option, and let us give it to citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Not all of them.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u369	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club, will ask another question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u370	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members of the PiS! A ghetto in Warmia - you didn't even expose your candidate. He won a candidate for the local committee. Kozłowo in Mazury, municipality of Nidzica - 15% for PiS candidate, 54% for the candidate of the local committee who won. You are worried about local elections, therefore you are tampering with the electoral ordination, wanting to completely politicize local Poland, which will never be our consent. And a question. You're introducing a two-channel rule for the mayors and city presidents. As modern in principle, we agree with the limitation of this term of office, it was also our request, but at the same time in the same law you introduce a transitional article. 13, which unfortunately shows, Mr President, that the term of office will, however, be backwards. So you're introducing a vague recipe and you want to introduce two-cadence backwards in local government units under the guise of this vague recipe. In addition, you are afraid, I do not know for what reason, the starting of the uncle, who for two terms was the mayor in one commune, in another commune. There is no need to prohibit such a general from running for office in a municipality other than the one in which he held two terms in the local government. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u371	Thank you, sir. Mr Piotr Zgorzelski from the Polish People's Party will ask another question. You're welcome. There's no envoy. Then it is Mr Jan Kilian, the Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u372	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to return to the 2014 elections again. Allow me to refer to a similar example given earlier, e.g. Cieszyna, where the winning local committee gained 26% support, which translated into 11 out of 21 seats on the Council, i.e. more than 50%. Second, the mayor's committee scored 18%, 8 points less, which only translated into four councillors. As a result, the vast majority of the council are opposition councillors to the mayor. It may even threaten to paralyze the city. I will also mention my nearby Skórcz, probably the oldest city in Poland, where support for the committee, which in general received more than 50% support in the election, did not introduce any councilman to the council. Is this a pro-Citizen situation serving local leaders, communities? Does the bill fix these situations? There are situations that we remember from 2014 when, for example, In my hometown, the city council shared a 50-metre-long alley in half circles, [[♪ The bell ♪]] To get the result she was expecting. [[And that's why we're changing ordination. 'Cause your street isn't done right.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u373	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u374	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The PiS won the election, took responsibility for the state, and this electoral ordination you have prepared is another proof that you cannot bear this responsibility at all and destroy the state. How can one prepare such an important project as electoral ordination to local governments without consulting local authorities at all without consulting experts at all? How can we prepare an electoral ordination without consulting the State Election Commission, which has presented you with a whole bunch of mistakes, usually the most technical ones that can prevent these elections from taking place? You accused your predecessors of faking the election so you could have a good introduction. There's not a single charge that someone's been tampering with. You're talking about pro-Citizenship. Meanwhile, you have constructed these elections so that independent citizens will not actually be able to run. Urban organisations, city movements, civil society organisations will also have a difficult start, while everything goes in this direction to help the big parties stubbornen the local authorities. The least stubborn authorities in Poland, where there were the least parties, want to be stubborn, because this is how you want to win these elections. You're not gonna make it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u375	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz club15, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u376	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I had a speech prepared, but I'll say it myself. Forty years I worked as an employee, as a worker, I worked half my life as a social worker, a social activist, decorated by children with an award, I am the Bachelor of the Order of Smile, I have many other decorations, I am deserved for the city of Koszalin. [[And I'm confirming it.]] I had the greatest support in Koszalin in the last election. [[Applause]] Four times I've had the chance to become the councilman of the city of Koszalin because they knew me, they knew who I was, and they know me to this day. [[Applause]] Therefore, when there was such a chance to take off to restore the state to its citizens, an opportunity for every human being, [[Applause]] also a worker, to represent them here today, in the Seym of the Republic of Poland, gave me such a chance the only man in Poland, Paweł Kukiz, who called the citizens' movement. [[Applause]] Today I am here thanks to Paul and my wonderful friends who are with us because they have not lost the idea, this local government, to restore democracy, so that Poland really is for Poles. And now you've created this electoral code, as they call it, that little Kazio wrote it. Who's it for? For the Kazis? [[For the Misiewicz.]] We want you to go back to the citizens so that it's democratic, so that you can really...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u377	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u378	... The electoral code was for those who deserved it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u379	Mr Witold Zembaczyński, please, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u380	If he doesn't deserve it, he can be canceled. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u381	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u382	And that's what needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u383	Thank you very much. Mr Witold Zembaczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u384	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The reconstruction of the government is inevitably approaching, and therefore my question is: Is the project of this ordination not being prepared under it? And what I'm talking about is this rule, which assumes that in order to run for the council of the commune, you won't have to be a resident anymore. You say it's enough to be a voivodship resident. But after a brief analysis of your plans, I found out what's going on. Namely Jan Szyszko, Minister of Environmental Protection, is to be a candidate for the commune council in the municipality of Puszcza Mariańska. Witold Waszczykowski, MFA, Grumpy Border. Ladies and gentlemen, come on, Andrzej Adamczyk, Murowna Goślina. And at the end of Antoni Macierewicz, Wola Uhruska. Is it true that this article, which assumes that you are breaking up with the connection that the councilman must be its resident, is relaxed... [[This is the Seym. What are you guys doing with the debate?]] ...to start the expansion of the PiS to local governments just from running for office to the specific council of the municipalities that I mentioned? I don't want to repeat them here anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, one more aspect of this whole ordination. You've really accomplished a lot. Today you have succeeded in creating the foundations and foundations of a united opposition. The sight of Rafał Trzaskowski and Paul Rabiej frightens you. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Oh, yeah, yeah, that's right. [[Applause]] Today, this moment will bring about a new chapter in which you are mobilizing us all to communicate and simply win with you. And that's how it's gonna end. 'Cause when you want to change the rules of the local election, you're gonna knock yourself out. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[You can win, right? Still?]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u385	Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u386	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The boundaries of the electoral districts have a very strong impact on the electoral performance. The division into electoral districts should be preceded by a comprehensive analysis of social conditions. After the entry into force of the electoral code in 2011, each municipal council had 15 months after the entry into force of the law. Now the commissioner will only be three months old. Until now, it has been done by the council of the municipality, where councillors most often represented various election committees. This will now be done by the electoral commissioner, often by the political electoral commissioner. Could you convince me, as well as all Poles and Poles, that this will be better, fairer and more democratic? You are so often, and here I am addressing the ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, you are talking about the fraudulent elections in 2014. You even ran for a complaint to the European Union, which is a total shame, which you often forget. But please don't do this, because paraphrasing our great knight Jurand, I'll tell you this: don't insult yourselves, don't be offended, don't accuse your people, because it was the members of the Law and Justice that were on every district election commission. Think about what you're doing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u387	Ms Ewa Tomaszewska, Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u388	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To date, the documents relating to the voting are available to the local authorities. They have an insight into the electoral records. In Warsaw, two referendums have been held in recent years on the sale of SPEC and on the cancellation of the city president. Local workers were informed by their superiors that they would lose their jobs if they took part in the referendum. It was possible to find out who was involved in the referendum if you had access to the electoral census. So will the possibility of applying similar pressure be eliminated if we adopt the proposed bill? [[Applause]] [[No, because it's not about the referendum.]] And second question. Is it possible for the PKW to control how the cameras are placed in electoral locations so that there is real certainty that the electoral process will be conducted in a fair manner? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u389	Thank you. Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u390	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Such non-national solutions can only be proposed by those who do not understand the word self-government, who do not understand that residents in small municipalities want to direct their own activities by choosing their representatives in one-mandate electoral districts. That is why it is incomprehensible why you want to take it away from the people, why you do not want them to choose the people they know, respected by them, and well represent their interests as the interests of their constituents. The liquidation of one-mandate electoral districts in small municipalities is a big mistake. Secondly, it is incomprehensible why it is up to the electoral commissioners to set up the electoral districts. To date, it has been the council of the municipalities that have had the opportunity to do so, and it is they who know the specifics of the districts, the circumstances that occur there, so putting this into the hands of the commissioners is rather similar to the actions that took place in Hungary, which Viktor Orbán took in order to seize as much as possible. These are two of the most important, very important charges. I wonder why you're doing this. This proposal can best be summarised with the words that the head of the PKW said that your proposal is a real threat to respect for the principles of electoral law. That's the way to take it anyway. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u391	Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u392	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wonder why you were so quiet when Łukasz Rzepecki spoke. Now you are clogged again because Łukasz Rzepecki was with you and he discovered your cards perfectly. He knows you're afraid you're not gonna take over the local government, that you're not gonna get to the local government money. That's why you prefer paratroopers, i.e. people brought in files - passive, mediocre, but loyal to the president. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u393	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u394	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's PiSpolita's thing. That's the name of this new PiS project. From the brightest Republic of the Republic you want to make a party and a mediewicz Rzeczpospolita. This PiS project has become the third twin, ladies and gentlemen. It's just this time it's not about the moon. [[There can't be three twins.]] This time it's about stealing Poland. It's about stealing it from citizens, it's about stealing it from social activists and taking it away from all those who think differently from you. Of course, just so we're clear, it's not about a fair election. No, this project is not about honesty and it's not about transparency. This project is about an effective mechanism for the ownership of local governments. This mechanism is the electoral districts. With these black machines, you'll be able to take over the local government. Worse still, this black, treacherous scenario, the plan of jumping to the self-government of Poles you have hidden under the hypocritical cloak of transparency and this is what you soap your eyes to the citizens. You didn't even respect a certain political tradition of Poles. Well, you're raising the number threshold of the circuits to 4,000. citizens, which will mean changing voting positions and more queues to vote. What is the reason for increasing these voting circuits? After all, if these changes occur, it will be chaos. Ladies and gentlemen! [[♪ The bell ♪]] PiS from the Brightest... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ... The Republic of Poland wants to do the PiSpolita thing. Luckily, the Poles won't let you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u395	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Jarubas, club of the Polish People's Party. You have one and a half minutes. I have to follow the timeline.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u396	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The basic question today should be: Where is Kazio? [[Applause]] Where did PiS hide little Kazia, the one who, according to you, Judge Hermelinski, wrote the project of the PiS-Ordination? [[There's two of them. Schreiber and the other one on K.]] I'm looking around the room. There isn't any on this side. And nothing, no Kazia. There are no braves, sir. Nobody wants to admit it. Nobody wants to sign off on this bullshit. I appeal: show Kazia, and Kazio will show you the map of the districts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u397	This is the level of PSL, sir, unfortunately. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: What comment is that, marshal?]] [[This bill is the PiS level.]] Mr Jerzy Paul, Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u398	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is very welcome to note the powers for opposition councillors included in the draft law on local governments submitted by Law and Justice, because strong and substantive opposition is an extremely important element of democracy. These powers will make the saying "Alderman helpless" disappear. One of the proposed powers is the right of all clubs to put on the agenda at each one point session without being able to take it down by the governing majority without consideration, i.e. this point must be considered. [[What about the Seym?]] There may be a fear that the governing majority in the Council, in order to deprive the opposition of this right, will manipulate the requirements for the creation of clubs, e.g. increase the number of councillors required to set up a club from five to six, knowing that the opposition has only five or four councillors. [[However, some tests will be done for Members.]] Therefore, I have a question: Does the project provide protection against such undemocratic actions? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u399	Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, Civic Platform Club. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[You had your mic off. You couldn't hear anything.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u400	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After the transformation in 1990, the first free local government elections under the slogan, which then sounded very strong: the government itself, not everything, gave the Poles hope. Under such a banner, people went to elections, knowing that in a democratic country after these elections they would be true hosts of their little homelands. It is necessary to dislike your country very much to destroy democracy and political elections today, saying less elegantly: lay a political paw on local governments. I have questions for the applicant. What really is the purpose of your party commissioners' appointment of electoral districts? You have the courage to destroy the local government, so have the courage to tell Poles, in which this political commissioner will be better than an experienced judge. If you lose the elections in local governments despite these manipulations, what do I wish for the sake of Poland, on whom will you blame for the fraudulent elections? To your commissioners? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u401	Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u402	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I see among you, even now, those who have built their political potential on self-government activities and that is why they have become Members. They threw out those who were old activists and became messengers. Now, ladies and gentlemen, about those party lists you want to introduce. Ladies and gentlemen, how can you guarantee their loyalty? An example of Wadowice. He won the committee there, the people from the PiS. What's going on today? They were bought by the mayor of the left. Aren't you ashamed? You think you can guarantee the loyalty of people by putting them on the list? Do one more thing: besides carrots, give me a stick. One more thing: creating electoral districts. There's been something like this in Lanckorona once before. This has been declared unlawful. Remember, it doesn't really work. One last thing, ladies and gentlemen. A specific question for your applicant. Please tell us how the television time will be shared, this television is mismanaged, mismanaged, but important in the local elections. How will the time between the various committees be shared? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u403	Mr Marek Owa, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u404	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This debate concerns local Poland. I am surprised that there are so few of you, because many of you come from the local government, but I am glad that he is Mr Biernat of Zator, a very good mayor of this town for 17 years. [[Who?]] Although he's from PiS, we've always been able to work very well together. [[Ooh, you burned it.]] [[What's his name?]] He's listening to this discussion. Zbigniew, tell me how you're gonna explain to your people that they're gonna pick a councilman from Smolice or Ruc in Ławiczki. What are you gonna tell them? [[Voice from the room: The truth.]] It never happened. What are you gonna tell the people who are gonna tell you today that you were elected mayor three years ago because of a fake election? [[Applause]] And you were the mayor, and you were the one who prepared the whole procedure back then. [[Voice from the room: scandal.]] All the more reason why you won with 30 votes. What are you gonna tell these people? [[Impossible.]] You have to go to the local yard to understand the records of this ordination to understand the records of this ordination. What am I supposed to say in my community when the PiS is weak, but he's gonna drop the paratroopers? They're gonna run for mayor of Chełmek from Tarnów, I don't know, from Wadowice, maybe from Krakow. How do we explain these people's ordination? Think about what you people are doing. [[Applause]] [[Those from Krakow will move to Wadowice and those from Wadowice elsewhere.]] [[If they want to vote, they'll vote.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u405	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u406	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, a very kind request, Mr. Marshal, not to treat my colleagues here with some epithets, because that's really not the point. [[Applause]] Please do not ruin a level that no longer suffers from too high a level when it comes to debate. Mr Owl's very good words were just said. Let's look at changes in ordination not from the level of this chamber, it's such a good advice for you, colleagues from the PiS, only from the level of counties, municipalities. You're saying these changes are supposed to bring pro-Citizenism to the local elections. Is deprivation as a result of a 40% reduction in districts citizens, how to judge, and kindly... Whether to eliminate 40% the citizens of who will rule the local governments, that is, pro-Citizenship? You guys really need to think about it, 'cause you're walking into a dead end. Think about it so that for several decades after you, the Commissioner will not mention such a slogan that where PiS can't, the Commissioner will help. As a warning, I leave it to you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u407	Mr Piotr Polak, Club Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mr Tomasz Nowak, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u408	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Election tricks - the writing of the local government will take place in an accelerated manner, within such a short period of time that we are separated from the local elections. Do you have those 400 election commissioners yet? Or is it at this very moment in Novgorodzka that you are wondering whether to give Iksiński or Beksiński, and is he sure he supports the PiS? Do you have any criteria for the designation of electoral districts? Are they written anywhere, except, of course, the address on Novgorodska? In respect to the sovereign, will you post them on the Internet? Will we know how the division was made, and will this division be justified out of respect for the voter? Where there's high support for the PiS, do you think there'll be three-mandate circles or seven-mandate circles? Is the number of candidates on the lists a number of tickets plus two people or two times? What's it gonna be? What about the disabled, the sick? What about the correspondence vote or the proxy vote? Why was the PKW's ability to run campaign to promote electoral turnout removed? Is the ordination of the PiS in its philosophy similar to that of the Hungarian ordination of Viktor Orbán? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u409	Mr Jarosław Porwich, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u410	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Art. The 10th draft envisages the need for the county electoral commissioners to make a new division of all local government units into voting circuits within 1 month of the division into electoral districts. After the entry into force of the electoral code in 2011, each council of the municipality had three months after the division into the constituency to carry out this task. Is little Kazio aware of that? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u411	Katarzyna Lubnauer, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u412	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! In 2014 there were local elections, after which PiS was very loudly shouting that there was some fraud, that the book was not like that, because on page 1 there was a polling list of PSL. But what you're doing right now is one big bank heist, that's a jump. At the same time, this is a situation where by law you break this law. You want the constituency that your commissioner's gonna set up. You want them tiny, the ones that fit you best. You want to lead to a situation where the Supreme Court will then approve, whose composition you will choose. You want to lead to a situation where those who are more active will not be able to vote because it will not be possible to vote in correspondence. In general, she's one big thug. This whole electoral ordination is a bandit that allows PiS to take over completely undemocratic governments. If you're strong, if you feel strong, do it democratically, win on a level playing field, not dig under all the other pits. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u413	Mr Marek Sawicki, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u414	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Just now, after Mr Jarubas's speech, the marshal assessed the level of the Polish People's Party. I will say: the PiS level was assessed by Prof. Hermelinski, [[Applause]] Saying that your draft bill was prepared by little Jozio. [[Kazio!]] Kazio, that's it, little Kazio. Or maybe little Jarek. [[Maybe with Józef.]] I'd like to ask the High House. Yesterday's courts, today's local government. Yesterday, Mr Piotrowicz at least made it clear: we are not talking about the reform of the courts, we are talking about changing the mentality of judges. Isn't this ordination of yours just a matter of changing the sovereign's mentality? I want to ask you if, since you're winding up one-mandate electoral districts, you're also going to propose a proportionate ordination in the Senate elections. If you do not like the outcome of the election, you will go to Brussels on a complaint, as it was in 2014... [[You guys drive.]] [[Minsk.]] Is it enough for you to complain to your commissioners? Thank you. [[That's where you're gonna complain.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u415	Mr Jarosław Krajewski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u416	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have a question for Members of the Civic Platform. What are you afraid of? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Can we answer that?]] Are you afraid... [[Voice from the room: Question to the applicant.]] I will have a question for the applicant, but at first I would like to see this fear in your eyes of honest elections. [[Applause]] You are afraid that the Poles will also settle you in local governments, even for the reprivatization affair in my city of Warsaw. [[Does Warsaw know it's yours?]] Because I think it is very important to introduce standards when it comes to transparency, transparency when it comes to self-government. And when I look at the politicians of the Civic Platform, I see... [[But no one's asking.]] ...that the devil wore an ornament and a tail for Mass called. [[Applause]] When we introduce a greater influence of citizens on local government, a greater influence of councillors when it comes to control of the governor, the mayor or the president of the city, then you protest? It's very interesting. I would point out that for 11 years of government of the Civic Platform in Warsaw, you were afraid like the devil of holy water to be the chairman of the Audit Committee of the Council of M.S. Warsaw was a representative of the opposition. On the other hand, we are proposing a concrete solution: granting individual control powers to the councillors in the form of a Member's powers... [[In Podkarpacie, you offered.]] ...or guaranteeing the function of chairman of the review committee of the Councillor of the opposition. I have a question for the Member of the applicant. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Did the applicants consider... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...enlargement of these powers to municipal councils and county councils? [[Applause]] [[Let's expand on the Podkarpath for a start.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u417	Thank you very much, sir. Now Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u418	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This transparency and transparency are visible in the subsequent records of your bill, which we have heard about, but besides, my dears, that you are doing a jump on local governments, you also want to make a jump on the cash register. It's in the article. 1 in Amendment 11 you want to politicize the treasurers. You're saying it's the president, the mayor, the mayor will be able to kick them out right away, because if they don't sign up for countersignation, they won't defend their responsibilities, they're just gonna get fired. He's gonna do it and he's gonna smack their president or mayor right away. I would like to ask the applicant what is the reason for changing the way the treasurer is employed. Why are you only addressing the issue of communal treasurers in the 11th change? What about the county treasurers, what about the voivodship treasurers? What about treasurers in the city on county rights? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u419	Mr Piotr Apel, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u420	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First, I will answer Mr Krajewski's question. No, we're not afraid of fair elections, which is why we're protesting your change, which is why we don't want these changes, because we want fair elections, and what you're proposing is just closing up on local committees, on citizenship, on what's important in local governments, that's indisputability. [[And are you afraid to increase the authority of the council?]] Under no circumstances are we afraid to increase, absolutely not. I have a question, though. What made you decide to try to own the local government? What made you decide to give yourself and the Civic Platform a better chance? Is your love for the Civic Platform, the largest opposition group at this moment, so big that you decided to give them even more in local governments at the expense of local committees? Where's the love coming from? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u421	Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u422	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For many years, I was a self-government officer. Since 1990, I have participated in every local election. Everywhere I was with my colleagues from the county authorities, then the voivodships - they are here - we hoped and called for the local government to be a partner for the government. No group, including in 2015, questioned the role and principles of the functioning of local governments, did not question the principles of self-government created by local government fathers. Professors Regulski and Kulesza. So why do we now want to turn municipalities and districts into regional offices? 'Cause that's where it's headed. And as long as someone is in the administration not only at central level, he knows the competence of the regional office. Why do we want to end the era of self-government and self-government? Why can't local governments function as they have so far and be that link, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Which in the '90s helped solve...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u423	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u424	...so many problems? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u425	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modern Club. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[You learn culture.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u426	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[There'll be a poem.]] I would like to address the applicant, Mr Schreiber. Mr President, you have acted here not as an applicant, but as a prosecutor and prosecutor. [[Applause]] It is very sad that this is how you talk to the opposition and the Polish society. PiS, which can be seen with the naked eye, orbanates Poland. We are falling into some quasi-dictatures, which is a really serious threat to our citizens and citizens. I don't mind, ladies and gentlemen, that the right hand wins in the election, you have the right to do so, but you have no right to change the system, such a mandate. Nobody gave you anything. [[Applause]] I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that local governments are the heart of democracy, and you break it. Seeing the cynical smiles on your faces, I wonder when they'll be grim. When you lose in the local election, that's it. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] It will be our great satisfaction. That's what I wish you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u427	Mr Jan Łopata, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u428	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! We are proceeding, we are now discussing the Act on perverse - and I think it must simply be called a messy - title: draft law on increase, increase, participation of citizens in the process of selecting, operating and controlling certain public authorities. [[The increase by the PiS.]] These are the Himalayas of hypocrisy, or this is the lie my colleague was talking about here. [[Applause]] You're talking about increasing the participation of citizens, and you're introducing a draft by way of a message to limit the discussion, the possibility of consultation. It's the first test, but it's very important. If we lean on the provisions of this law, it will turn out that in the case of everyone this comment is valid, for example in the case of interpretation of a valid vote. So far it has been clear: putting any character other than x in the grate - the voice is invalid. Now it could be by a manipulator or a person, a criminal - let's call it - a different sign added, blurry. And I'm asking you, who's the most important person in the world to vote for. This is the transparency you want. There are more examples. The project isn't repairable. It's to be thrown out. Despite these criticisms, I want to tell you something else. You're all minimalists, because as part of election observation in other countries, we've seen a case where the voter is identified and recorded by a fingerprint, and his image immediately shows up. Go this way. This country is Mongolia. The direction is good, only a bit of courage was lacking. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u429	Mr Piotr Uściński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u430	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Before I ask a question, I would like to refer to the fact that one of the Members of the opposition mentioned the municipality of Wadowice, where in one-mandate electoral districts it turned out that the councillors joined a group of executives and resigned from being in opposition. How is that possible? That's because there are JOWs. Because there are JOWs, executive authorities impose on the councillors to join the coalition, it imposes on them, says that they will have no sidewalk in their constituency, no patched hole if they do not join. That's how they break their spines. That's the flaw of the JOWs. You've shown a flaw in the JOWs. The question to the Member of the applicant on the other hand. Request to consider and request an answer, whether it is possible to introduce certain vacathio legis in relation to one solution that is in this law. This is a very good solution that will make citizens always be able to see how their councilman voted on the matter. Registration and publication of votes on websites. This is a very important solution that people expect. People want to know how the councilmen voted. There's only one thing. I think that the Polish market for electronic devices manufacturers is not prepared to deliver so many devices as soon as the law enters into force. Then these devices could come from abroad. Request to introduce vacathio legis at least six months [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or that it's been in force for the next...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u431	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u432	...local elections to make it possible to... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u433	Mrs Marta Golbik, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u434	I'm waiting because I don't know if I can. [[Voice from the room: Tell me now.]] Thank you. This is what we heard from the rapporteur today. That's the rhetoric you've been using for two years, the self-government stuff, talking about clicks. You do it all the time, you do it for two years so that now, after the two laws that we had yesterday, we could introduce a third law that would really rule out independent self-governments. We have a package of three laws at this meeting. Yesterday we had laws relating to the end of the independence of the courts, the limitation of the rights of parliamentarians, today we have a limitation on the possibility of participating in the public life of independent self-government. The question is, what are they disturbing you and why do you want to deprive a dozen percent of the citizens who will vote in these elections, because by changing the electoral districts, you really deprive those who vote for the small election committees of this right. You know that, and you're doing it on purpose. You want to stubborn the local governments that haven't been stubborn so far. I have one more concern. I probably wouldn't be scared if the bill was presented by President Kaczyński, but it's a record about [[♪ The bell ♪]] Two-channel possibilities... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u435	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u436	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Members of the applicants. Do they say anything to you, to you such names, such organizations as the Polish Sejmik People with Disabilities, the Polish union of pensioners and Polish Forum of People with Disabilities? These are organisations that bring together more than 300 NGOs that care about the interests of people with disabilities in Poland. By eliminating the JOWs, you deprive the passive electoral rights of members of these organizations, these people, activists. Not much, they represent almost 3 million people with disabilities in Poland. By eliminating the possibility of voting in correspondence, you potentially deprive 3 million people with disabilities of participation in elections. I have this question: Where is the opinion of at least one of these organizations regarding this project? Have you asked those organizations that represent, very often socially, the interests of people with disabilities, whether they like your ideas? No. You have a patent for infallibility. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u437	Mr Radosław Lubczyk, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u438	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The applicant envisages splitting the electoral process into two parts, and consequently you decide to set up two electoral committees, one for holding a vote and the other for determining the results of the vote. My question: What will be the extra cost of setting up two committees instead of one? That's the question to the applicant. And the other thing. You've been in charge for two years, and in Kozłów, it's 15%. - PiS, 53% - local government, in Novgorod: 3% - PiS, 62% - local government and in Stargard: 10.7% - PiS, 87.6% The vote wins and wins the presidential election of a man from the local government. Today we see that in the local government you simply have no chance of winning, and you are changing this bill so that you have a better chance of getting the positions of the mayors, mayors, or presidents. And one more word to Mr Andzel, who says that today the candidate, winning 20% Votes in the JOWs, he becomes a councilman, but he doesn't have the right to represent people, because that's only 20%. I ask you how much law and justice have won the elections to parliament. That was about 20%. The voices of the Polish society, so following Mr Andzel's thinking, I will say that you do not have the right to rule in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u439	Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u440	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, So many words were said here about the politicization of local governments. Self-governments were political, they are political and they will be political. You've created the so-called mechanism. partyless professionals who in one election start as representatives of the Civic Platform, the Polish People's Party, and the next are already partyless professionals. Example: President Radom of the Civic Platform, who, as everyone points out, will run from its own block in 2017 in the 2017 elections, bringing together a broad... [[Does that hurt?]] [[He has the right.]] Of course, and no one's denying him that right. [[You're refusing.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, if you say so and refer to the issue of voter attendance and how well the elections were organised in 2014, I remind you that at turnout, which did not exceed 50%, 20% of the people came out of the house to cast their vote in the election committee, but the vote did not matter. You think this is normal? 20% of the people who voted in the local elections in 2014 voted null and void according to the State Election Commission. [[To the Seyms.]] Do you think that someone is preparing for the celebration of local democracy, this local government... [[Yes.]] ...and he's just going to cast a vote that doesn't matter? Get down on the ground. [[Applause]] [[I haven't heard such a weak speech.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u441	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u442	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The PiS conspirators! The voters need to be told the truth. The introduction of a completely new organisational model will involve the chaos of competence, decision-making and enforcement. This may affect the proper conduct of elections. The new law will stop work on the new IT system. This system is already being tested - with a positive result. So there's got to be a new system. It'll be much more expensive. Of course, there's time. Is there going to be a new system? You slept two years. Do you allow a scenario that the election will take place at a different time? This project is, of course, prepared quickly and unprofessionally. I agree with the opinion that it was arranged by little Kazio. You're greedy, you've trashed the legal order in our country, you've eliminated the Constitutional Tribunal, public media. They don't exist, the army is a disaster, the police are becoming political. Now you want to hit the Poles with their little homelands. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u443	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u444	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There's nothing to hide that this ordination is written for the winner. But I have some bad news for the politicians of Law and Justice: you can't win this election. Poles do not like lies and hypocrisy, and you lie when it comes to this ordination, every step of the way, pretending that intentions are completely different than they really are. You say that you are not defending the start of the local election committees, but you know very well that many of them will lose their representation in the local authorities because of this election order. It's in a lot of other places anyway. Mr Wróblewski, most recently at a scientific conference in Krakow, said what the real purpose is. What did he say? It can't be that Law and Justice in Gniezno has 40% support and one councilman. Two corrections. You don't have 40% support in Gniezno. I live there, I have an office, and I talk to people. Secondly, if you only have one weak councilman, it might be worth wondering why, rather than eliminating the possibility of running for elections to independent local authorities who run and win based on their own name. Maybe we need to replace the candidates. Yeah, there's a problem. Independent people who have local authority want nothing to do with you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u445	Ms Urszula Pasławska, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u446	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'm addressing my friends here at the PiS. Without reflection, you are consistently implementing your program: Poland in ruins. This time you're going to the local government. Why? Because so far you haven't been able to win a fair election once in a while. That's why you're getting revenge. [[Applause]] First in 2014, you are rushing to Brussels to complain about Poland. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[The whistle-blowers.]] When the book was also in ordination a year later, and you had the first place, it was a strange coincidence that you agreed and did not judge the situation. [[It's true, it was. Shame.]] That's why today you're taking revenge on local government officials, taking away their powers first, the management board, the ODRs - you can't see the end. But you know what you can see? No more democratic, fair elections. And that's not what he's gonna do. Ladies and gentlemen! It is hard to resist the impression that you are following the path of your friend, a warm man from Belarus, who first took over the courts, then changed the electoral order, and for 21 years he did not lose the election. [[But you're afraid of a fair election.]] And finally, the task. The enemy of the people is not he who harms, but he who doubts the rightness of the party line. There are still many among us, but we have to make arrangements with them. Who said that? Ladies and gentlemen... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u447	Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u448	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! With these changes we restore democracy in Poland, because so far control of the power of resolution over executive power was fiction. Control powers in the current legal state shall be granted only to councils as a whole or to audit committees. As a result, the mayor, the President, who has a majority both in the Council and in the Audit Committee, has the political opportunity to completely block control of their activities or to make it fictional. I am happy to see in the project the granting of control powers also to individual councillors, in the opposition idea. This will make it impossible for the executive authority in any government to completely block control of itself. It is particularly important to guarantee the role of chairman of the audit committee for the opposition in the voivodship seymics. It would be worth considering whether such a solution should also be considered in the councils of the counties and in the councils of the municipalities. In my opinion, such a solution at lower levels would also be justified. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u449	Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u450	I have listened very carefully to this debate from the very beginning. I listen particularly carefully to Mr Horala, whom I like, I will tell you quite frankly, because he seems like a kind man and culturally argues, but occasionally, as in this case. What's he saying? In Gdynia, in his town, there's some conspiracy, conspiracy of some elite, property. [[Why don't you just set it up a little bit?]] 80% of the people voted for the Rat because it's owned, stupid, and Mr. Horal 12%. . I think that's what this is all about. You just don't know how to win direct elections, which is why you're bothered by one-mandate circles. [[And you don't know how to lose.]] You think if you take out one-mandate circles, you're gonna win. The same applies to PSL, words at PSL. Mr. Telus says once this ordination is done, the PSL will be gone. Mr. Marshal Terletsky's words are below level. This shows that this is an ordination to eliminate just PSL, only the problem is that PSL is strong because it has strong people. You can't eliminate them. You'll be gone, and the PSL will continue. [[Applause]] They'll be fine. The one-mandate elections that bother you so much are people, and you're people like that when it comes to elections -- you're just supporting them. And one last thing. 55 days before the election, you're going to tell people what the election districts are going to be like. Why don't you keep these election districts secret at all, and then you'll be even easier to win. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u451	Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u452	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill in the name has an interesting but untrue record. It is written: to increase the participation of citizens in the process of selecting, operating and controlling certain public authorities. How? According to the Constitution, everyone has an active electoral right, and according to your project it will be impossible, because it will have to be part of the party. As my fellow Member Rometsky said earlier, trusting people whom people trust will no longer be able to vote. It's gonna have to be part of the party. You don't care about local governments. You guys just want to win the election, that's all. You are not looking for outstanding managers who will rule well in local governments. You're looking for the faithful you'll put up the stools downstairs where there's the most money. You sent a nurse to the State Treasury Energy Supervisory Board because she was energetic. It's the same thing you're gonna be casting local governments now. You said the JOWs would concrete the political scene. Your project in Podkarpacie is currently cementing the local government. That's where you'll have to have a minimum of 20%, so 100%. In the local government he'll have a PiS. You're shutting down the correspondence vote. The disabled won't forget it. The IT system isn't, and it won't be ready, which you know well. There's no way he's gonna be. He hasn't been born like this yet, and he's made everyone happy. These changes you're proposing, this attack on local governments is gonna be hiccuping you. I think this whole project of yours is a smokescreen. I hope you get out of it. If so, it means you've wasted nearly a million dollars of taxpayers' money because that's how much this parliament's day of work costs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u453	Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u454	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Schreiber, once you were put on a mine by the PiS, a year ago, when you submitted a project on financing ministers, raising money for you. And they put you on a mine again. Mr Schreiber, one of the points that makes me laugh most about all this is that the inhabitants of Torun will be able to compete in Bydgoszcz. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I'm just surprised you accept that. [[And torun's resident is worse at what?]] Ladies and gentlemen! In one move, you want to wipe out social organizations and urban movements. With one move, you cut out 3.5 million people with disabilities by eliminating the correspondence vote. And I'm gonna say one thing. There is no Mr. Jarosław Kaczyński today, whom I call a coward, but I look at you, ladies and gentlemen... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...you're all cowards. [[What's that? There's still time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u455	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u456	I've got time. Mr. Marshal! I didn't have to look for you today, but I'll tell you one thing: you're an old hippie, but you've gone to the dogs. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[On behalf of my dogs, I protest.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u457	Mr Zbigniew Biernat, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u458	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The municipal government is politicized, the county council is politicized, the regional government is politicized, and it was you who politicized it, so that one great hypocrisy. With regard to the project we are presenting, the citizens' budget is a very good initiative, which is why my question to your applicant is: Shouldn't the introduction of a civil budget necessarily be considered in every municipality? Because today it is often the case that local governments have introduced civic budgets, but they have very limited the way in which they vote, the implementation of this budget by interpreting e.g. officials, whether the budget is enforceable in a given year or not. Second question: Shouldn't a larger amount be introduced, or 1% budget implementation of the previous year? On the other hand, referring to Mark Sowa's words: this is why I will raise my hand behind this project so that the situation from the Małopolska Province Sejm does not recur from 2014. [[Applause]] [[But what happened?]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u459	Ms Agnieszka Pomaska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u460	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to ask if this bill, which is supposed to be an opening to voters, is supposed to be a kind of democratic package, as you often say, is going to be the same democratic package as we see in the Sejm today. Will it be that instead of opening up and giving certain rights in this House of the opposition, you will punish it financially? Is it gonna be like you did the marshal just now, that instead of giving the voice of the opposition, you're gonna turn off the microphone? Is it going to be the way it is today with this debate that instead of an hour-long debate with the Prime Minister, there are empty seats of the Prime Minister and the President? I wanted to ask if this ordination might contain some gaps. Where are the financial penalties? I expect that, at the stage of the committee's work, financial penalties will appear in this bill, that there will be a ban on the opposition's vote on the city council, that those who have prepared this order should be the only ones entitled to make any decisions on the city council, on the municipal council. Take a look, because you may not have locked local governments in this ordination enough for citizens, for people who should participate in elections who should have the right to take part in these elections, and you are doing exactly the opposite. The way you deal with all the laws here is proof of that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u461	Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u462	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What's the difference between independence and independence? In a word, no. And you, for a century of regaining independence by Poland, limit the passive electoral right of Poles. You're restricting them from running for office. I was the councillor of the City Council in Proszowice elected in the district from four villages: Koczanów, Wolwanowice, Bobin and Czaczyce. I didn't have to be part of any political party. It was people who decided that I had become a councilman, and it was them, if I had run again, if I hadn't become an MEP, they would have billed me: whether I should have gotten a ticket again or not. I represented the voters, I represented these small districts, I represented their demands, where they had to fix the sidewalk, where they had to put a lamp so the kids could get back from school safely. And today? Today, the Minister of Shipping will return e.g. to my district and he'll be a councilman there. It was an honor for me, and for him it would be a delivery. [[Applause]] The budget, sir, is civic, not centralised. It was us in the City Council in Proszowice who adopted the citizens' budget and did not need centralization, because the citizens' budget belonged to the inhabitants, the inhabitants wanted this budget and convinced the councilmen to do so. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's no need to centralize Poland... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...to make Poland really good. [[Applause]] [[Every head of the board gets a button to turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u463	Mr Cezary Tomczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u464	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to know what it's like, and I'm asking the applicants. Gentlemen say there's information in this project that it's going to be some kind of new IT system, that it's going to work great. You want to do it at the level of Poland. On 12 September in this Chamber, everyone was to have a new voting system. You guys are so hot in the same room, you couldn't make a system... [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] ...and you want to do it all over Poland, in 2.5 thousand. municipalities. I don't think that's right. [[We can do this.]] We'll manage in this case didn't work out. Second thing. You often refer to Lech Kaczyński's legacy, but at the same time you completely ignore what he did and said. On the one hand, you call the streets after him, you build monuments, and on the other hand you insult Mr Hermelinski, who is the head of the State Election Commission. I will remind you that in 2009 he was awarded the Bachelor's Cross of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland, attention, by President Lech Kaczyński. [[Applause]] What was he awarded for? I quote: for outstanding merits for the independence of the Republic of Poland and for activities for democratic change. You know what I'm gonna tell you? You will never receive such an award because you act completely in opposition to what this man has been awarded for. Today, this man is witnessing to you. The man you elected to the Constitutional Tribunal in 2006. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u465	Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u466	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't know why there's so much screaming from the opposition. It's okay. It could have been even better, because, please see, paratroopers, paratroopers can be within one voivodeship, and you could have done all of Poland, as it is in the parliamentary elections. So in Zamość, some well-known candidate from Szczecin could run. But I'm gonna give you this even cooler absurdity. At my place I have Susiec and I have a second town, Janów Podlaski, distance - 250 km. Now please see: someone from Janów Podlaski will be able to run for office in Su¶c, and next to Suśca is the municipality of Narol, the municipality of Narol is in another voivodship, in Podkarpackie Voivodeship about 13 km away. And the one who lives 13 km away will not be able to run, and the one from Janów Podlaski will be able to run. Why don't you respect your citizens? Why do you not want people in the community to choose their councilmen? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u467	Mrs Monika Rosa, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u468	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Isn't it that the PiS state has done hundreds of polls in voivodships, cities, municipalities, counties, and in no way have you succeeded in winning? And if you don't win, there's a pale fear. And when the pale fear fell, it turned out to be a weak character. So? There's an electoral ordination cut into these polls. Well, how else could it be if the constituency is supposed to be smaller to increase your chances? Because how else, if the circuits are to be indicated not as it has been so far, by the councilmen, but by the commissioners who must be chosen? So? And they will not be apolitical. [[It's not the ones we choose, it's the aliens.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, there are clear indications that fear, weakness and such an effect of electoral ordination are fear of citizens, of honesty, of settlement that will come sooner or later. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u469	Mr Jerzy Bielecki, Law and Justice. Please. There's no envoy. Mr Zbigniew Konwiński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u470	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Your philosophy is simple. That's what was said today. If you lose the election, it's a fake election for you. What you are proposing in this bill is a simple electoral engineering that aims to increase the chances of PiS candidates and make it harder for everyone else to start this election. And you have to call things by name. You can call different events choices. In 1947, there was something called elections. Even in 1985 there was one list that got 100% Votes, but not because she had support in society, just because everyone else who thought otherwise couldn't run. You don't learn any lessons from history, and from the distant one, and from the closer one. In 2006, you also meddled in the electoral ordination, created the so-called. election blocks. Then you fucked and fucked the same way in 2018, because each of your mixing in the electoral order ends the same way for you. Mr Schreiber, I see, is being sent to such episodes quite ugly, quite disgusting. A year ago, you wanted to increase the wages of your party colleagues in the government, your colleagues, and now you're going to introduce electoral engineering. You'll be ashamed of yourself for this. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: But he has something promised for it, don't worry.]] [[Coritor+ and election+.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u471	Mr Janusz Sanocki, Member of the Independent Committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u472	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear PIS colleagues! Of course, the bill, your project contains some good things: transparency, webcams, everything is fine, very good, but the key is the electoral system, is to focus on the heart of the electoral system, i.e. on the method of taking up a mandate, applying for a mandate and obtaining this mandate. Ladies and gentlemen, so-called. proportional ordination, because it is not proportional at all, causes enormous damage, and the biggest one at the bottom. [[Applause]] I'm asking you just to think about it for the sake of the good of Poland, because it's taking people... One-mandate circles. Great Britain - the foundation of democracy. There were two countries in Europe in the 16th century, which began to be Parliamentary: England and Poland. [[Voice from the hall: England no, in the 16th century certainly not.]] England, England. British Parliamentaryism was formed in England, European Parliamentarianism was created in England and Poland. Previously in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen... [[In France, not England.]] Professor, then you'll test me. [[A hundred years apart.]] In our favor. But they're still functioning today, and they're not letting themselves out of one-mandate circles. You're malfunctioning, destroying. By taking the JOWs out of local government, you're destroying democracy downstairs. Really, it's not gonna work out for anybody. I ask you to reflect and introduce one-mandate circles everywhere, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to every level of self-government... [[Applause]] [[Janusz, you speak wisely.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u473	Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u474	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members of the Law and Justice! Remember the elections to the Sejm in 1993? You probably don't remember, but your boss remembers very well because he didn't read the electoral ordination well and lost. But not only did Jarosław Kaczyński lose that election. That Sejm had no representation of about 30% of the population. And from this, from these elections, Jarosław Kaczyński learned one very important conclusion: that electoral ordination is very important, and this proposal was used to manipulate this electoral ordination, otherwise it is impossible to name what you are doing with the electoral districts into the Seymists, mainly introducing three-mandate wards. Because it is not a majority election where you vote for a person, nor is it really a proportional election where you vote for a specific election programme, where there is a large representation, where there is a large representation. You've come up with a manipulation that suits you best in the electoral districts with the Seymists. You've come up with a small electoral district, and under that, you're doing ordination. This is absolute manipulation. You're ordination yourself, bearing in mind the experience of Jarosław Kaczyński, who lost the election. But you've already manipulated the electoral order once in 2006 when you introduced the blocks. And on these blocks, on this manipulation, you lost with the mole. That's where it started. And now you're gonna lose on this manipulation, too. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u475	Mrs Dorota Rutkowska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u476	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Amendment of the wording § 3 in Article. 166 The electoral code leads to the election commissioners of the State Election Commission being appointed in each voivodeship and in each district, but, attention, among those who have a higher education in law. To date, the principle has been that the election commissioners have served as judges, guaranteeing independence and apoliticity. Now the only requirement is legal education. So it could be a politically involved person. I will remind the applicants that the creators of the electoral ordination, and then the electoral code, was primarily about maintaining the widest possible principle of independence and apoliticity due to bad experiences with the Polish People's Republic. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Our electoral system, based on the participation of judges, is the most transparent system in Europe. Why are you demolishing this? There are now 51 electoral commissioners, with almost 400 of them following the changes. Everyone gets a diet. What are the costs? Who's gonna carry it? Where's the money coming from? One more thing. The project deletes the entire catalogue on the possibilities of cooperation between the PKW and NGOs in the field of the dissemination of the idea of civil society elections and increasing electoral activity. Is conscious society dangerous for the PiS? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u477	Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u478	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS! You are wrong to think that Poles can be bought. You're wrong to think that you were able to buy the Poles. Who like who, but us, the Polish people, values freedom above all else. And you're cutting us out of this freedom slices by slice. You're eliminating JOWs; you're restricting passive electoral rights. Ladies and gentlemen! Today in this Chamber we are witnessing the formation of a kind of PiS-PO electoral coalition, i.e. PO-PiS eternally alive. I do not know whether the applicant is aware that your records, whether with or without your will, will have that consequence. Hence my question to the applicant: Is this the intended purpose or the accident at work? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u479	Mr Piotr Babiarz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u480	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no ideal electoral system, but the task of electoral ordination is first and foremost to make the most of electoral preferences. The majority order, or famous JOWs, is the most dysfunctional in relation to other electoral orders. An example from my constituency. The mayor's committee gets 35% support, wins a set of mandates. Where are the representatives of 65% voters? Question, maybe rhetorical. What is democracy? Is it when there is no opposition, or when there is social control of the executive body? I think the question and the answer are clear. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u481	Mrs Anna Nemś, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u482	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You are an example of stubbornness in every area. Today is the time for election ordination. What's bothering you? JOWs in municipalities that worked perfectly? Ladies and gentlemen! In point 2 of Article 2, the following paragraph is added: 5 you propose to add paragraph. 12 and you write there that at least two lines are defined by the sign "x" which intersect within the grid. What do you mean, at least two lines are intersecting? That means there could be five, ten of them. So far, the rule has said that an important voice is considered to be a voice for which two lines intersect in the light of the bars. Poles have been voting like this for years. Why do you need this change? Does everything have to be yours? Can't there even be that crucifix on this ballot card? Does there have to be something else, something PiS-ovsky? Because you invented it, and it's gonna be different from now on. What's bothering you with the cross in the grate? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[What does it matter?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u483	Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u484	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear colleagues of the PiS! Looks like you guys are a little busy with this project. I'll start with the title. This is a project to increase citizens' participation in the selection, operation and control of certain public authorities. Please add: with party ID, regardless of whether PiS or Platform. My second point, to the Member of the applicant, concerns Article. 11 § 1 point 5, which allows a person to run within the voivodship at each level of local self-government units. This example has been shown many times here. This is an outrageous example of a typical partiocrat bringing people in files. This is an example that causes it to conflict with the idea of self-government. I would even consider whether you understand art. 1 law on local government, because he says who the competent local government is. I'm finally gonna get to the next point. That's already sloppy, ladies and gentlemen. I do not know who wrote this project, but I must say that I sympathize with the person who... Mr Schreiber, who presented the project here. Look at this, Art. 472: The candidate for the uncle must not be a person who has already been twice the governor. But is it the mayor or the mayor? [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's not on this project. That's sloppy. [[Vice Marshal disables microphone, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u485	Mrs Elisabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u486	Mr Marshal, was that your Member or your Member?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u487	Member, I apologize.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u488	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 25 May this year, in this plenary room, the Modern Posel Club submitted a project constituting a citizens' initiative for resolution. Minister Gwałek then said, on behalf of the government, that this project introduces a concrete, confusing procedure; it actually looks like a disregard for self-government. Exactly the same records, ladies and gentlemen, included in your bill. I'm just wondering what's happened in the last few months that you've changed your mind. To me, it's the Himalayas of hypocrisy. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: But be glad.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u489	Mr Wiesław Krajewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u490	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I wonder why so many emotions, aggression and rudeness, and above all offensive words in terms of and towards Members of Law and Justice. I don't get it at all. The procedated bill creates incomprehensible hysteria, emotions, aggression among the total opposition. Such statements as: criminal law, plowing of local governments discredit those who thus speak about this bill. As a long-term self-government officer, I believe that the proposed changes will serve even better functioning of local governments in Poland. Introduction of e.g. cadence of the communes, mayors, city presidents, the unification of the system of electing councillors to all bodies constituting, from the smallest ones, the councils of the communes, through the districts to the Seymists, the so-called. proportionate choices, whether the regulation in place for the conduct of the elections themselves ensures transparency and transparency. These are suggestions, opinions, assessments of many environments... [[Voice from the room: Say it on Powiśle.]] ...acting in the local government area. Therefore, the changes made will have a positive impact on the functionality of local authorities. Ladies and gentlemen! We all remember the 2014 local elections. We've all probably been outraged by this situation. The State Election Commission has not reached any conclusions so far. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in this respect.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u491	Mrs Bożena Kamińska...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u492	That's why to avoid... [[Applause]] [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u493	...Citizen's Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u494	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What is good for the PiS government, unfortunately, is very damaging to Poland. You started by ruining the Constitutional Court, and now you're going to small homelands, local governments. I would like to say here that I am, unfortunately, signing up for what a review and opinion most of the Poles are giving to the governments, i.e. that you are a government of manipulation and lies. And now I would like to ask if this is not a lie, when the President of Law and Justice Jarosław Kaczyński at the conference in May advocated the introduction of a two-channel rule for the mayors, mayors and city presidents, but informs that it will not enter into force before next year's municipal elections, while in this project, I ask the Members of the applicants, in Article. 13, which also refers to Article. The 4th paragraph of point 126, is written: the candidate may not be the person who has been elected twice for this function in the general election. Ladies and gentlemen, is this a lie? Yeah, 'cause you didn't back out on two. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The term of office, but those who are already... [[Applause]] [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: How about you read it in its entirety?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u495	Mr Wojciech Bakun, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u496	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members of the PiS! What is the majority ordination that causes a severe disease, you should know best. This disease is a schizophrenia of political views. [[Applause]] Why am I talking about schizophrenia of political views? Because today you're criticizing JOWs because that's what the president told you to do. Tomorrow, if the president says that the JOWs are good, you're gonna yell that the JOWs are good. Examples? Webcams, a project by Kukiz.15, which you criticized, all one by one. A month later, your ministry introduced an identical project -- you're all bragging about what a great project this is, the policeman's personal webcams. I will ask Prime Minister Gowin's opinion on the JOWs, because Prime Minister Gowin JOWy supports, but I think he will vote for your project, although he will not be pleased. [[Applause]] As far as the IT issue is concerned, as you said, little Kaziu is not a computer scientist, unfortunately, because as if little Kaziu was a computer scientist, he would know that in the year of the election computer system you will not create and will be a failure. And when it comes to your project, which you think was part of a good change, why did you spend two years teaching money on an IT project that works right now? You embezzled money. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u497	Mr Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u498	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the impression that the substantive debate is limited to the speeches of Members of the Law and Justice, the rest seem rather grotesque. [[It's exactly the opposite.]] Speech by Members of the Platform, their flames [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] speeches defending self-governments from stubbornness sound funny in the mouths of Members of the party who stubbornly stubborned everything they could, in their rule. [[Applause]] The speeches of the PSL Members who argued that the 2014 elections were conducted smoothly and honestly sound just as funny. Michael Kaminski, who revealed that he was afraid of PiS like a pyromaniac with a flamethrower - no wonder, since five years ago he predicted the end of PiS in his book. And Paweł Kukiz, who sees one-mandate electoral districts as a prescription for everything. I admire Paweł Kukiz incredibly as a musician, I loved listening to his music, but among others. that was the value of this music, that they were different styles and different songs. And here from the Seym Council all for one note, everything is to be solved by a one-mandate electoral district. [[That's not true.]] I therefore ask the applicant whether he saw any substantive question in any statement by Members of the opposition. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Oh, dear!]] [[Not this time.]] [[Technically...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u499	Mr Waldy Dzikowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u500	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will remind you that in 2011, exactly 5 January, the electoral code was adopted and I will admit it honestly, and I had the opportunity to observe it directly, because I was the chairman of the emergency committee, which worked for 2 years, dear state and applicant, with outstanding experts, NGOs, self-government organisations. It was a big intellectual challenge that you can't handle today... [[They don't understand. It's too much for them.]] ...because you can't apply this electoral code, and your knowledge and imagination of the elections that are being held is weak. You can see here the hand of councilmen who have never dealt with an executive body and really make choices. I can see that, ladies and gentlemen. Sloppyness, no specific records. You have to study. You have to study all the time. That's what I'm telling you. We'll meet on the emergency committee and you'll see that you'll be ashamed of what you wrote. There are many substantive errors. I mean, reading art. Article 13 4 is total sloppyness. In fact, literally reading, you can say that these are choices completely backwards. I don't suspect you're lying, even to the point where I'm gonna say that, because I have confidence in you, but you just have to learn it. That's a lesson to learn, gentlemen. [[Member Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Szk: The ladies were the...]] You'd like to be probably someday... [[Member Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: Tarnów Podgórny...]] If you were able to do that, it'd be a big deal. Anyway, once again, it would be good to... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u501	Mr Richard Bartosik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u502	Every success always makes someone jealous. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u503	Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u504	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I want to start by saying that I'm among the applicants, too, and I'm absolutely not ashamed of it, because it's a project that people are expecting down there, just in local governments, people who can't run for office today, because the governor will take the family on the rug if someone wants to take off. In many municipalities there is not even a second candidate. [[Then why aren't you doing it? Put it out.]] But I will also say: Enough dictatorships of women! Enough women's dictatorships - although it's also impossible, because I want to talk about quotas. The only charge I have for this project: Why are we replicating what the Civic Platform has introduced? It's a stigmatizing of women, as if we couldn't normally get on the list, get into government or the Sejm without parole. Here I have a huge appeal, which also comes from many women: we are the same citizens and we do not need to guarantee 35% on the lists. [[35% is for each sex. Read it to yourself.]] Let us have the same rights, and let us owe it to ourselves, our commitment. And one more question to the applicant. Isn't it that the OSCE has just accused us that these crosses in the grate and the recognition of votes [[♪ The bell ♪]] It doesn't matter...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u505	Mr Robert Kropiwnicki...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u506	...is a violation of will... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u507	... The Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u508	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Two short and simple questions. Answer the country, I ask the applicants: How do you understand art. 13 of this bill? Do you really think that you want to count forwards or backwards? [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Read the project.]] Because you've been introducing it since 2014. Give a clear view of what you mean by this, for the recipe is extremely gibberishly written and incomprehensible. He needs to be very clear, so that every county... [[It's an individual case.]] ...the chief understood what he was saying. And the second question is, what did the disabled, the older people, do to whom you take the correspondence vote? Why are you betraying Polonia, who mostly voted in correspondence? [[Oh! Traitors!]] Let me remind you that in the presidential election in the First Tour 42,000. people voted in correspondence. In the Second Tour elections 56 thousand. people voted in correspondence. In the elections to the Sejm 45 thousand. people have applied for electoral packages. What have these people done to you? The vast majority of them are foreign voters, and the second group is older and disabled. Why do you want to deprive these people of voting? What have they done to you? Why do you hate correspondence vote so much, even though the Constitutional Tribunal has made it clear that it is in line with our constitution? Why do you want to deprive Poles of this form of voting? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u509	Mr Artur Szałabawka, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u510	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to finish the issue of these crosses for the Member of the Civic Platform. Don't discriminate against older people, because everyone knows what choices look like and how an older person wants to cross out two intersecting lines, and unfortunately he's gonna do a line somewhere else, and malicious officials later reject it. One of the curiosities of the current local government practice is the issue of office service, expert councillors of local government resolution bodies. In the current legal state, officials under the official authority of the Executive Authority shall do so. A citizen who wishes to complain to the office, to give information to the councilman or simply to meet him must do so through the staff of that office. We get signals about places where councillors even receive correspondence in open envelopes. This may not be the case in big cities, but in municipalities, in district cities unfortunately yes. Another problem is the issue of expert and legal facilities for councillors, which are also provided by persons directly subordinate to the executive authority. What is the solution to this problem for the bill? Did the applicants consider separating from the budget a small amount of funds from the local government unit for office and expert services, from which councillors or councillors would benefit themselves, e.g. In the same way as the Parliamentary Offices? I think that's a good solution, I think, for everyone. I don't think anyone who was a self-government officer can deny it. I've been a local governmentman for years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I could use that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u511	Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u512	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A good practice of recent years has been the introduction of public budgets in some local governments - residents in direct voting decided how part of the budget was spent. It is a good thing that the citizens' budget gains legal legitimacy and that it will apply in cities on the rights of the county. On the other hand, I would like to ask you three questions. The first issue is the issue of small measures and a large fragmentation of them, e.g. between the districts, in these budgets, which means that the available amounts are not responding to the needs, which of course means that such a project is not completed, cannot be completed. Next issue - the question of arbitrary decisions by officials rejecting or not implementing civic projects on the basis of some of their own established rules which are neither subject to appeal nor control. Third issue - excessive requirements for notified projects, e.g. issues such as the number of necessary signatures. I would like to ask how the project under consideration relates to these three issues, because these are issues that decide whether to be or not to be a civil budget. There's one more thing. Is it true that in the correspondence vote abroad it was common practice that election packages came to our offices on Friday [[♪ The bell ♪]] And they were unpacked on Monday? It had an impact on the election. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u513	Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u514	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law departs from the principle of self-government and the decision of representatives in the electoral bodies of the shape of districts, giving all power to politicized electoral commissioners. The project provides for transmission and recording in polling stations and this will be mandatory. What happens if the transmission gets jammed, interrupted, and the recordings aren't full? What will the consequences be? What are you gonna do? Are you gonna complain to Brussels? [[Back to the country.]] I will point out that there are no solutions in the project for violations of electoral law, e.g. issuing ballot cards outside the electoral premises, bringing voters by dishonest candidates, violating the electoral silence. This should be clarified. I wanted to ask you why the election papers should be kept for up to two years, not for a minimum of two years. It can be completely legal to destroy all ballots, e.g. A month after the election. [[The day after the election.]] Who's it supposed to be for? In addition, changes will significantly increase the costs of making choices. What's the estimate? How much longer are these costs going to go up? Why all the changes in the electoral code? What are you afraid of? The Poles have already met you... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...unfortunately from the wrong side. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u515	Mr Lech Kołakowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u516	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed bill introduces a limitation of the term of office for the mayors, mayors, city presidents up to a maximum of two terms. Whether this request is introduced, among others. in 2003 the cases in which municipalities and cities have their second term or more in office were relatively rare, while Poland is in the strict European lead in terms of multi-cadence numbers? Has this change only caused such good mayors' governments, or the mechanisms they have in their functions for their re-election? Is not the situation in which a large part of the population of the municipalities is dependent professionally on the municipal authority and its subordinates a permanent determining factor in their electoral behaviour? Isn't it above all a way of breaking the established systems and pathology associated with digging up parts in their positions in a way that eliminates the possibility of an objective assessment of their governments and achievements? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u517	Mr Waldemar Olejniczak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u518	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're debating the local elections today. We have heard so much about irregularities and strange situations from the 2014 local elections. I have been a Member of the Northern Mazowsze for two years, but for the previous three terms I was a councilman in the county. Ladies and gentlemen, I also remember the 2010 local elections. I remember many outraged local governments and I will present you only a map of the Mazowieckie voivodship. It looks like this: so red, and it concerns invalid voices... [[It's a good thing Glinsky didn't...]] ...as a result of placing more than one cross, x. It is astonishing that in the municipalities, in districts in the Mazovian Voivodeship it amounted to 27%, and in the neighbouring commune of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie, Warminski or Lublin region it amounted to 3%. The same problem arose in 2014 across the country. A lot of people analyzed it. Let me quote, ladies and gentlemen, just an example from the medium, from the election. Bielsk County near Płock. In the 20,000th year... [[Two thousand...]] In 2010 opening the list of PSL Marshal Adam Struzik took 349 votes [[♪ The bell ♪]] - 2/3 of all devoted... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u519	Thank you. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u520	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Schreiber has been trying to convince the High House that the purpose of the law is to increase the role of society in the selection of bodies from the general election. However, this bill is nothing more than another assassination of the Law and Justice on local and voivodeship authorities, which will be implemented by limiting passive and active electoral rights, eliminating one-mandate electoral districts in municipal elections, eliminating correspondence votes, which were used primarily by people with disabilities, or introducing a proportionate system in all categories of local authorities, which will in practice mean eliminating small, generally local elections from taking part in elections. I have a question for Members of the applicants: Is it true that the proposal to write an article. 13 of this project means a two-channel backwards because since the elections held on 16 November 2014? Next question: Why didn't little Kazio of the PiS ask for the opinion of the sovereign, for whom he so often likes to speak... [[Voice from the room: Ask little Kazia.]] ...by eliminating the possibility of public consultation on this project? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u521	Mr Paweł Chezernaker, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u522	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We live in the 21st century, we live in times where electronic voting becomes the world's norm. We live in times where, for example, we live. in a faraway Brazil, in a country with more than 200 million inhabitants, the largest South American country where people vote in the rainy Amazon forests, the election results are known shortly after the vote is closed. However, today President of the State Election Commission, in the era of full digitalisation, one year before the elections, said from this speaker that he cannot say when he will be able to report the results of the local elections. To this day, there are no results of the vote in the elections to the Warsaw Council in 2014. The president of the City Council, who has been holding the Council of the 40 millionth State for 3 years, still has zero votes on the PKW website. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The State Election Commission needs a civilizational change today. The State Election Commission also needs a digital revolution. Hence the question: What IT system does the PKW have today, and why cannot the IT system be adapted to the current electoral right one year before the elections in the 21st century? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u523	Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u524	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In addition to the courageous economic reforms of the 1990s, the revival of local government has become one of the pillars of the success of Polish democracy. Many thousands of local self-governments and local activists who started working in the municipalities that were created. We must do everything to maintain the idea of independence of Polish local governments. Dear designers, whose words are these? What do you think? That's what you're saying. President Lech Kaczyński, whom you so eagerly want to build monuments in every municipality, and whose ideas he preached in his life, you completely do not remember. Since it's so good, you're pumping polls, and you've still got 40 percent, and 30 with a hook, you're sure, what are you afraid of? Why are you guys always trying to get in the way of ordination? [[We're not afraid.]] Well, you're extremely scared, and these combinations are caused by this... I mean, if it were to suit you... Mr. Marshal, please calm the benches, because I can't...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u525	Madame, I ask you to remain calm. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Go ahead.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u526	Ladies and gentlemen! If this ordination were to give you a victory, as you pump it in polls, you wouldn't be able to do that. But you know you're gonna lose, just like you've lost in all the municipalities so far, and that's why you're working out these scam methods. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Question... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Mr. Marshal, you didn't count my time. Why aren't you letting the disabled go to the local elections? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u527	I counted you five seconds. Please, Mrs... Mr Grzegorz Puda, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u528	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The applicant's argument for the parliamentary project was to strengthen the role of the councilman, the committees, their work, but it's not true, it's just a scam. After all, this project weakens the role of self-government and the Councillors. It breaks up the community, because what it is to impose on the councilmen, to bring them in their files, their loyal politicians. How can such a councilman who does not know the commune and its needs perform a fine well? Of course he can't, and he won't. I have a second question. Like with this cadence, does it work backwards or not? I'm asking for a specific answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u529	Mr Andrzej Melak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u530	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Changes in the electoral ordination are a bunch of expectations and conclusions of the society, which have a click in its nose that has ruled since many, many terms. [[And how do people want that?]] I have this question for Members of the PSL: Gentlemen, it was you who stole... [[The moon?]] ...the identity of the pre-war folk movement of Vitos, Rataja and Mikołajczyk. You contributed to the fact that after 19 years he died in Washington. [[I'm from Modern.]] I have a question for the applicants. In the draft electoral order, it is stated that the voting abroad will be possible to use the passport as an identifier. In Europe, where the Schengen area is in force, many Poles use personal ID when travelling. Will it be possible to change so as to allow for the vote of those using evidence? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u531	Mr Norbert Obricki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u532	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The law, by name and assumption to increase the participation of citizens in the process of electing and functioning of self-governments, is not really interested in the opinion of the citizen. Because where are the public consultations, the opinions of local governments, the association of voivodships, the union of powiats, the opinion of the joint government and self-government committee? There isn't, because you're afraid of consulting. This bill is anti-Citizen. According to the project of many self-governments, many citizens will have limited opportunities to run or vote for their candidate in the municipality. You're practically raising the electoral threshold to a dozen percent, excluding citizens' committees. Have you asked Poles if they want to resign from the JOWs for three-mandate party lists? What are they supposed to be better at than the JOWs? The point is, you're hoping for victory because it's not better for the citizen. The anti-Citizen Project and thus the anti-democratic project will not survive the test of time. You're gonna lose. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u533	Mr Waldemar Buda, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u534	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, over the years in local governments, there has been a lasting spring, you can even say: green sielanka - a green groom with a green councilman set up electoral districts, employed, ruled, divided. In 2018 it was even supposed to be so that from 1 side of the PSL electoral book it will be transferred to the cover, and the entire back will be green color. That's what the election was supposed to look like. [[Is that what you said?]] [[Is it going to be red now?]] But, ladies and gentlemen, the transparency and transparency of the electoral process is a drama for you. It's over, it's drama. Unfortunately, we will not feel sorry for you. We're not gonna feel sorry for this... [[Speech outside the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u535	Member, no...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u536	...that the opposition councilman will be able to submit an interpellation. Moreover, within 14 days, he will be able to receive a response to the interpellation. Ladies and gentlemen, don't be afraid of it, really. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[But now laziness hasn't allowed it?]] [[You can now too, sir!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u537	Mrs Izabela Leszczyn, Civic Platform. Mr. Messengers, they've been awfully busy here. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u538	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me read a part of the article from the nationwide portal, which was published on 20 November 2014. This was the title of the article: "Affer with the State Election Commission." The election was faked. It's been four days since the final vote in the local elections, and we still don't know the results. [[We'll know before.]] [[Voice from the room: 3 days before.]] There are more and more shocking reports of irregularities while counting votes. The words of the Minister of Justice himself best testify about how serious this situation is. The Minister of Justice himself. There are many reasons for concern, I do not rule out the request to repeat the elections," admitted Cezary Grabarczyk. The number of scandalous situations connected with those elections was so great that, to tell you the truth, I am not surprised that the Minister at that time considered repeating the elections. I don't know if you remember, but for example. The nationwide radio then announced that in Szczecin the election for president was won by a person who did not even run for elections, ladies and gentlemen. [[She didn't run.]] [[Szczecin who? What are you talking about?]] That was the scandal in 2014. [[It's for the radio, please.]] Ladies and gentlemen, no, based on the PKW. Based on PKW. [[I heard the Minister of Defense is going to be Gowin.]] In Katowice, representatives of the Voivodship Election Commission by law [[♪ The bell ♪]] 3 days after the end of the vote, they informed...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u539	Mr Andrzej Gawron, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u540	...that no protocol has entered them. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Do these situations have a chance to happen again now? I hope not. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What kind of radio is it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u541	Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u542	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask applicants to amend the entry concerning the deletion of Article. 72 of the electoral code, which will absolutely limit the electoral rights of people with disabilities. I would like to ask you whether you are aware of how many years this has taken, how titanium work has been done to change our attitudes regarding full openness to the active participation of people with disabilities in social and professional life. We should be grateful to all those who, every day, humbly and with great courage, translate great words, often spoken by states, about the full and equal exercise of human rights and freedom by people with disabilities into real, common everyday life, without even a shadow of marginalisation and alienation. Ladies and gentlemen! In this project, one primitive cut shows contemptuously the place of people with disabilities in your PiS reality. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u543	Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u544	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this debate, the JOWs dominated these two laws, and present here they do not see many very good solutions, advocated for a number of years, solutions which have so far taken place in the regulations of municipal councils or city councils, have taken place in the guidelines of the State Election Commission. It all becomes legal matter in this project. I would like to remind you of the possibility for the opposition to introduce a draft resolution at every meeting of the council of the municipality, district or sejm. Chairman of the review committee - always from the opposition. The JOWs have their downsides too, ladies and gentlemen. It's not like the JOW supporters say they're all good. If the electoral preferences of the governor and those elected in one-mandate districts are different, then this governor does not have a back office in the council, he cannot vote on the draft resolutions he has tabled, and it often happens that this ends in a referendum for appeal. We have such examples in our local government. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have another question for the applicant... [[Vice Marshal disables microphone, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u545	Mr Jan Grabiec, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u546	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! A careful reading of this bill causes me to have bad information for applicants. This first bad news is that the title of this law should be changed and instead of talking about the law on increasing citizens' access to the electoral process, it would be necessary to talk about a law on reducing citizens' participation. Because de facto the liquidation of one-mandate electoral districts means that citizens will not choose citizens: Kowalski, Nowak, another individual, but party lists. You're pulling citizens off the electoral process. Secondly, you are talking about the fact that - this is what the authors declared - there will be no two-cadence backwards. Unfortunately, it is. There is a two-channel backwards in this project, although I heard President Kaczyński himself when he said she wouldn't be there. Gentlemen, bad news: President Kaczyński will read this bill or they will tell him that you have submitted a completely different project than President Kaczyński said. I don't know if it's a legislative failure or an idea to jump into local governments. [[It's purposeful.]] The Uncles are to know that they will not be able to run for office 25 days before the election. Finally, the last point is the process of counting votes, the idea that every vote the chairman of the election committee is to show to all members of the committee. I figured out how long it's gonna last in the local election. Fifty percent turnout, which is an average of 2,000. cards times 4, because there are so many cards in the municipal election, times 3 and 5 seconds. [[♪ The bell ♪]] To count the cards. How many hours is that? [[The Vice Marshal is shutting down the microphone. Member speaks with the microphone off]] 33 hours. [[Applause]] [[It's been three years, and the results are gone.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u547	Mr President, you have exceeded your time. Mr Łukasz Zbonikowski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u548	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Currently, the budget implementation report and the absolute debate in local governments are usually a pure formality. It often takes place shortly after the budget has been adjusted in recent days of December to the reality of the mayor or president concerned. Therefore, it becomes only a formal approval that everything in the budget tables agrees. This is why the introduction of a new institution deserves particular attention: a debate on the state of the local government, in which it is possible to debate all the substantive actions in the local government concerned. It is worth noting the possibility of direct participation of citizens in such a debate. With this in mind, I ask you to answer the question: What are the consequences of the Council's failure to give a vote of confidence after the debate on the state of the local government? Second: Why does the proposal provide for formal restrictions on the participation of citizens in the debate in the form of a prior notification of their participation in writing? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u549	Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u550	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You have to have a unique nerve to make the obvious destruction of the functioning of the self-government detract from the citizen's budget. The civic budget, which is the achievement of the Platform and was, in some sense, an excellent gift given to citizenship by the Government of the Civic Platform. Participation is precisely the mechanism that makes the citizen's relationship with the elected local authority grow. Just because he wasn't mandatory, it made it seem as a result of mutual understanding that it was supposed to be, how big it was supposed to be and how it was supposed to work. That's his beauty. And you think in your limitations, that if you're gonna make a statement, it's gonna be better. You guys want to declare citizenship. Well, you're not gonna make it, because you're extremely non-Citizenish. The problem of the civil budget It is not in whether he is mandatory or not, but it is in the fact that he is not bound by the law on the financing of local government units, and that is what needs to be looked at. Here's another thing. You want to renew the conflict between the council presidents and the mayors, creating a separate unit to be the council office. That's all we've been through. No wonder Mr. Schreiber had... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[The Vice Marshal is shutting down the microphone. Member speaks with the microphone off]] ... 3 years old and 1 day when local government was born. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u551	Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Law and Justice. There isn't. Mr Michał Stasiński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u552	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr Schreiber! I'd like to congratulate you on your speech. It was a really great speech, and you really made an excellent bill. You have prepared a bill that leaves no doubt, which clearly and without any doubt shows what your plan is. And in your speech, also in a very clear way, using two terms, you have basically said everything. You've created a definition of those laws that you want to introduce. You used the terms, you were talking about cutting up districts and twisting elections. [[Applause]] And there's basically nothing more to say here. But there's more truth hidden in the words in this bill. The second committee set up to count votes is called the committee to determine the outcome of the elections. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Congratulations, sir. You will go into history as the face of an assassination attempt on free elections, and you, like me, are a Member of Bydgoszcz. You've mentioned the name of our beautiful city from this bleacher several times. And I'd ask you not to mention that name again from that tribune, because neither for bulldozers nor for bulldozers is that really a cause for glory. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u553	Mr Antoni Duda, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. I'm sorry, it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u554	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! More general. We can imagine the situation, for example. the 10-mandate district. There's a number of candidates out there, e.g. by five committees. In the case of one-mandativ districts, it must be divided into ten. There may be a situation that in each of the 10 districts wins a minimum number of votes, e.g. up to 25% and with the next 24%, 23%, 22% And 5%. The candidate... [[No, because you can only reach 100.]] That's 100, actually. Count it. Count it-- 100's out. A candidate from the same committee, so this committee gets 100% mandates, with only 1/4 support. Of course, it's an extreme case, but it's possible. In the case of proportionate ordination with the same distribution of votes, mandates shall, of course, be shared among several committees according to the votes acquired. So the rhetorical question can only be asked: Which of these systems gives the real will of voters, making a given body representative? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u555	Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform. [[Mr. Owl, learn math.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u556	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Local elections in our country are the most important elections, more important than parliamentary elections, looking at Poles and Poles living in their small towns. I know that because I was a councilman for six terms. I realize there are no perfect solutions, because there are no perfect solutions. But as many thunders as fell on this election ordination project... Fear takes on if it were implemented in its present form, looking through the eyes of the voters who are watching our debate from the position of television. But I want to get to the details. I believe that a candidate for self-government must live in a given municipality. He can't be from outside the commune. Two terms for the ladies and mayors. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a mistake, because today's standards, requirements in these positions... No good expert will take the risk of being a maximum of eight years. It's too short. Everyone appreciates it. These twisted complexities, when it comes to one-mandate circles that have passed the test in practice, are very controversial. Amendments to the [[♪ The bell ♪]] The State Election Commission is unacceptable. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Therefore, I believe that the project is a weak project. [[Applause]] [[The project is good. You'll find out.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u557	Mr Leszek Galemba, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u558	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Member of the applicant. Why the idea of two election committees? Isn't it enough to expand one of them? My next question is: Are there even other countries where such a model is used in elections? And the question to you from the opposition: Do the established rules apply to all candidates who are taking part? [[Voice from the room: Applicants must be asked, not us. You don't ask questions about opposition.]] I think the answer's clear. We all have the same chance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[There is one electoral commission in Belarus, and then Lukashenka counts.]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u559	Hello again. I ask the floor of Mr Ireneus Breś, the Civic Platform. There's no envoy. In that case, I ask Mrs Dorota Arcisewska-Mielewczyk, Law and Justice. [[Voice from the courtroom: If he knew your marshal would be here, he would have come.]] Exactly. Then call me again, and he'll have time to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u560	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for Mr. Schreiber, the applicant. An important problem that we observe in practice of many local governments is the absolute Unity of the uncle, the mayor, the President. The executor's authority and the office behind it decide almost on the life and death of the inhabitants of the commune. Instruments such as employment at the office, municipal companies and other local units, maintenance of local media with public advertising or subordinate companies, disposal of apartments, utility premises, etc. make any opposition groups or even single dissatisfied citizens quickly pacified in the public debate. There are no opinions or views other than official opinions. It has become urgent to increase the participation and control powers of the residents themselves, as well as the resolution bodies, in particular opposition councillors. Which of the solutions contained in the proposed project serve the purpose of strengthening the powers of residents and councillors? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u561	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Ewa Drozd, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u562	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Requestor! Don't you hear the wave of criticism that is not just coming from this room today about the provisions of this bill? You wanted to avoid consulting, so you took the form of a parliamentary project. However, I do not think that you are the authors of this document. So who is the author of this scandalous project? I think it's some Superman fan. So maybe it's little Kaziu, because he created himself a hero who he called the commissioner, a cyborg who, even though he's a novice, inexperienced, can still replace a local government that had 15 months to name districts. Your hero, even though it's physically impossible, according to your bill, will arrange it within three months. And yet you're telling me it's gonna get better. It's not gonna be better, but it's gonna be more expensive. The Poles will pay for this. So do you know how much money it takes to fill out the transmission record from every polling station? What's the amount? Did you provide it in the next year's PKW budget? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u563	Mr Tadeusz Wozniak, Law and Justice. You're welcome. There's no envoy. In that case, Mrs Agnieszka Hanajczyk, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u564	Ladies and gentlemen! I think all the arguments have been exhausted here today. Here's what I'm gonna say: I'm glad, ladies and gentlemen, about this project. You can really bow down to the state because you have to have a really nice fantasy to go to such a war with self-government. Either there are no self-governments among you, or you haven't worked with the local government, if you think it's possible, like here in the plenary room, to turn off the microphone or impose a penalty, or to apply any other restrictions. You'll see. On the other hand, I am very happy because I was also a local governmentman and I know how sensitive the local government is when you introduce the solutions you are proposing. In this connection, short questions: What do you want to achieve by taking away the opportunity to vote in correspondence? Do we have such a great turnout? I'm overlooking the fact that you're just insulting people with disabilities. What is the aim of introducing the possibility of running people from all over the voivodship? I live in Aleksandrów Łódzki. I imagine someone from Ozorkowa is coming, becoming a councilman, and he'll be talking in the district about what needs to be done. What is the ratio legis of these solutions? I have absolutely no idea. Another thing is the cost. You say that in 2014 there were problems with the IT program... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u565	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u566	...you'll see the problems next year. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u567	Mr Marcin Horała, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u568	Ladies and gentlemen! I think that some of the PKW's comments deserve serious consideration and perhaps to be taken into account in the form of an amendment, but a significant part of them can be summarised as follows: it is impossible. The PKW won't be able to arrange an election. This has to be taken seriously because the PKW has already proven to be an outstanding expert in not giving advice in the organization of elections. [[You're already attacking.]] Hence, the question to the applicants whether they may consider limiting certain tasks of the PKW at the stage of work in the committee, since the PKW itself says that they cannot do them. Perhaps it must be done by other, more efficient organs. [[The Constitutional Tribunal.]] Do applicants have any knowledge of the design of the IT system in the PKW? If I hear that it is impossible to do a new system from scratch, because the electoral circles will change, it means that the variable value that can change in any election without changing the law, because it is always one of the 3,000. Municipal Councils can gather and change districts, circuits, and this happens every election, has been sewn rigidly in the code of the PKW system, so that every time there is even the slightest change, I don't know, some paid order will come in to change this code. It's amazing to me as a person who used to take care of IT for a while. He's an elementalist. Any system that has certain variables that may change should have an administrator panel for the user that will parameterize them without having to interfere with the code. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[460 jobs you didn't get here in the Seym.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u569	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Sibińska, Civic Platform. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u570	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! To my previous speaker: Mr President, it is best to bring the list of all candidates to the Government of Nowogrodzka and the President will take a look at it. Then neither the PKW will be needed, nor the electoral committees, we will need nothing. It's the easiest thing to do. And to the representative of the applicants: There is a saying: hit the table and the scissors will speak. So I have a question for you. How do you know a local government that has pathologies that have such bad actions? I understand that these are yours and your colleagues' experience, because I know fantastic local governments that are making fantastic use of EU funds that take care of their citizens, who consult their solutions and introduce civic budgets, because this is the idea of the Civic Platform. The Civic Platform introduced civic budgets and in many, many local governments they are implemented. Perhaps they are not implemented where the PiS rules, so it is hard to wonder that they will now be imposed on them. You know how you don't feel about citizens, how you don't feel about self-government, you have to impose something. It is similar with the Sołecki funds and with many, many other things that local governments are perfectly able to deal with. Why are you guys doing this? You don't like these self-governments and you want to take all their power away from them? [[We love self-government.]] You love it so much that the water tariff will be fixed by the director of RZGW, some Polish Waters, right? You love him so much, the commissioner's gonna set up the electoral circuitry. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u571	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u572	You love local governments very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u573	Mr Tadeusz Dziuba, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u574	Two questions for applicants. First of all, it is known that today and the division into electoral circuits, and the appointments of a committee are carried out by the authorities of the local government, whether collegial or single-membered, i.e. politicians. What, then, hinders critics of these provisions that officials or non-political persons will do so from the entry into force of the new rules? Second question: What solution do you see if the State Election Commission does not appoint new people for these positions? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u575	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Platform. There's no envoy. Then Mrs Barbara Dziuk. I don't see a Member. Mr Rafał Grupiński, Civic Platform. [[Can you see me?]] You're welcome. [[The Member is taking his time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u576	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! While wondering why the PiS changes the electoral ordination in this way, you can probably find many answers, but one is, I think, basic. Why, instead of apolitical judges, should they be commissioners to the people in a sense, in fact, chosen exclusively from lawyers rather than judges? Out of fear. Why should there be new electoral circuits directed at the hands of these Commissioners? Why should they only have three to seven tickets? Out of fear. Why do you decide to change the PKW, the way you choose it? Out of fear. You're afraid of losing the election. You're digging into ordination. You guys did it in 2006, putting a block on self-defense to win. So? And you lost. And the same fate. You will be waiting next year because you have done too much evil in the Republic of Poland so that the voters can forgive you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u577	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u578	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, let's not scare each other who wins the election, who loses, because it's all gonna be decided by the ballot box, and I hope it's a fair voter. Ladies and gentlemen, the question that needs to be asked here today, and it has not been raised by opposition colleagues, is whether the electoral ordination needs to be changed or whether it needs to be improved. And we, ladies and gentlemen, don't play in the electoral ordination, as we have been said here, we don't play games, we just change it. The important question is whether we are going in the right direction. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the questions that have been raised here are concerned, I think I can answer them, because I was also a local governmentman, and I worked in election committees. First to be asked: Why didn't we protest when it came to the 2014 elections in the case of local elections? Ladies and gentlemen, the answer is simple. The most basic proof of fraud or irregularities in these elections - sorry, not forgery, just irregularities - was that there were no more ballots. The cards were simply destroyed, according to the regulations. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] It's kind of obvious. Ladies and gentlemen, as time is running out: Should electoral ordination be changed? In my opinion, yes, because election letters, for example, in municipalities, make it impossible [[♪ The bell ♪]] persons who will be solely and exclusively at the service of the governor. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u579	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u580	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the question of why PiS gmera in the electoral ordination, actually Mr Grupiński answered very clearly: out of fear. [[But you're glad we're scared.]] And this fear is not unfounded, because despite the results of the support that are being shown, after all the recent elections that have taken place, local ones, such as in Kozłów... Although PiS candidate was anointed by Beata Szydło, he got 15% Votes, winner 54. Recently in Podlasie, PiS candidate - 3.5% , Winner - 62. But I would like to advise you: instead of playing in this electoral ordination, use a method that has already worked very well for you. Well, you hid a certain Kaczyński in the parliamentary elections, you hid a man named Macierewicz, and it worked out well for you. [[A fellow Member of Lassota.]] Soon you'll have to hide those signs just to win. Do it, you'll really have more effect than you did in the election ordination. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u581	Thank you. I do not see Mrs Kinga Gajewska from the Civic Platform. So Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u582	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This debate is about decency, good habits and money. So democracy is about laying down rules for the next election. And then we could believe you, then we could talk to the citizens, consulting the project. But you're trying to rumble, as one of the members of the PiS has said. Changes concerning the two term of office, the elections of local government officials, wojites, mayors and presidents, manipulations with electoral districts, manipulations with electoral commissioners. But it's a talk about money. How much will it cost the taxpayers? The budget includes 450 million local elections under the old regime. What you're proposing, two committees, camera. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] and all the other elements that are included in this project, that's an additional how much? 450, 550. We get a billion dollars every time. A billion dollars for television, a billion dollars for elections and more money to promote yourself on their fences for four years. Ladies and gentlemen, this has nothing to do with this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] democracy and decency.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u583	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u584	I dedicate a proverb to you: who digs under whom dimples, falls into it himself. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u585	Mr Wojciech Wilk, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u586	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicant who presented the draft Law and Justice. Mr President, what is the nature of this term of office? You assure me that you have withdrawn from your two-channel backwards, and you have also spoken about this by the Member who presented the position of the PiS during today's debate. However, when you read the rules contained in this project, it is no longer so obvious. I'm talking about art. 13, which was already mentioned in today's debate. This article. 13 clearly states, I may read it, that the provisions in the wording of this Act apply for the first time to elections of voytes, mayors and presidents of cities throughout the country, managed in connection with the expiry of the current term of office of local government units elected in general elections, starting on 16 November 2014. Why did you enter this date? Was there any record from the previous project? Is this a mistake, or is this a deliberate action? Could you explain what the real intention is? Are we going to deal with two-cadence backwards, or are we counting two-cadence since the elections in 2018? I'd really like an explanation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u587	Thank you very much, sir. And Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Platform. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u588	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Member who presented the PiS project. I think it would be worth being honest in this debate. I think that many local governments are currently watching this debate and it would be worth saying clearly, ladies and gentlemen, what this project is all about. The point is for PiS to take over the local government, because in a normal way it can't do it, and the normal way is by self-government elections. Unfortunately, PiS cannot do this, which is why it tries to change the ordination in such a way that it is not people from the county and communal Poland, from small towns where local government officials are valued for their professionalism, decide who is to implement their policies and who is to be responsible for the development of their city. They're not supposed to decide. It is not you, inhabitants, to decide, inhabitants of Pniew, Obornik, Zbąszynia, Nowy Tomyśl, Szamotuł, Rogoźna, Wągrowiec, no, not you. It is Jarosław Kaczyński who is to decide who is to be a possible candidate or who is to eventually rule the local government. These things shouldn't be, because you're showing what's really bothering you. You destroyed the Constitutional Tribunal, you alleged it was ineffective. What happened after the Constitutional Court took over? He's practically not ruling, he's paralyzed. You attacked the Supreme Court, you attacked the courts, you took over. What are you missing now? You lack self-government so that everyone can only confess the ideology of Jarosław Kaczyński. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, do not fall for this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u589	Thank you, sir. And Mr. Piotr Cieślinski, Civic Platform. There's no envoy. In that case, Mr Czesław Mroczek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u590	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This bill is a stage, a revelation of the destruction of a democratic state, because the essence of democracy is free and fair elections, and this proposal changes the rules of operation of the State Election Commission, in which the electoral process has so far been supervised by impartial judges, you are chasing away judges. The judge in this election process is PiS. There is no honesty here because one of the participants in this trial will be a judge at the same time. That's the essence of evil sewn up into this process. Instead of nine judges in the State Election Commission, we will have to a large extent representatives of the PiS, then we will have dependent on this formation of regional and district commissioners. This is the essence of this project. This project is called: increasing the participation of citizens in the selection and functioning of local authorities. This is a project about tools and ways to increase the success of the election of the PiS, these methods are mentioned. [[About tampering.]] The end of one-mandat electoral districts, the end of winning by popular ladies and mayors, are all the tools to ensure you win. There's already been a proposal by Mr Sasin, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to win in Warsaw. Now you want to win everywhere. It's not gonna work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u591	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Wojciech Król, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u592	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Law and Justice don't understand self-government, and if Law and Justice don't understand something, they want to destroy it. In fact, what possessed you that you want to let people who don't live in a given community run for counsel? Can you imagine that investment, quality of life will be decided by people who do not live in a given community? This is absolutely unacceptable, this is an attack on the local government. The Councillor's mandate should be sought only by the people of the municipality concerned, as well as by the mayor's and the President's mandate. It is quite symbolic, unfortunately, that at one session of the Sejm we are debating the assassination of the local government and the assassination of the Supreme Court, which, if necessary, will be able to annul elections, like your committee to determine the results of elections would be wrong. This is absolutely outrageous. That's it, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u593	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u594	Power, power, power, power captivates. You don't have enough seats in the government for those Pisiewicz, Misiewicz, you still have to have seats for them in the local government. You've already tried that. We all remember the RIO bill, all of us, as one husband backed it, but the president made you a peek-a-boo and vetoed you. [[This is the President's law.]] Now, this bill is the second step, it's the tricks, because you know you're not gonna win, so you're gonna have to use the combinations to win. But you're gonna lose because you don't have local leaders and you won't be helped by paratroopers in local governments, even if you write it down in the bill. With me, in my constituency, PiS leader is Macierewicz. Congratulations to the Macierewicz people in the local government. Mrs Milczanowska, two-seater president, where is she in the discussion today? Where is she? Or maybe he's ashamed of what you're proposing. What do you suggest? However, the two-cadence working backwards, and it will be, small electoral districts appointed by the commissioners from Warsaw, undermining the credibility of fair elections, taking away the elderly and the disabled with correspondence votes, just the wrinkles. You're trying to win with unworthy methods, but do you know how this is gonna end? You're gonna lose. You know why? Because for people, these local elections, [[♪ The bell ♪]] A wise host is important and will vote for local hosts, not you. [[Applause]] [[It's a good thing we're gonna lose, isn't it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u595	Thank you very much. [[You're gonna lose...]] Mr Blazej Parda, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u596	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I think somebody out there in Law and Justice didn't quite understand the word "self-government." They interpreted it in such a way that it is the government itself, i.e. that the government itself rules everywhere, also locally. [[Applause]] Maybe it'd be a better match: SamPiS or self-pass. Well, maybe that's it. Maybe it's urban companies, which are also for development. The queue for government companies is over, there is no place, so you have to shove those activists somewhere, e.g. Pile. This city is the largest area where the JOWs function when it comes to the city. I was also a councilman elected in the last election. If it wasn't for JOWs, I wouldn't have gotten on the board, and I was the youngest independent councilman in Pile. I know that if there was a list like you're proposing, youth wouldn't be there. It would be as it is in the Seym, usually in the first rows, i.e. the average age would be about 50 years. Why do you get the opportunity to start young and, above all, independent, those who do not want to go with you, one or the other smart guys, and just have an idea for their local space and do not want tentacles from Warsaw to appear in cities or municipalities? Thank you. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: approx. 50 years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u597	Mr Richard Bartosik, Law and Justice. As you get older, you must be careful, because please, what are the comments? You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u598	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ad vocem the statements of my predecessor. I'm 50, but I feel pretty young. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[I got it.]] Since there is a provision in these new regulations that both the mayors and the mayors should not be able to run for county council, the Sejm council, I would like to ask the applicant whether this opens up to younger people, people who have not so far engaged in local government, the possibility of running. And second question. Whether this solution is more transparent and, above all, fairer when it comes to elections, because we all know that there have been situations when the mayor, the mayor, has repeatedly run for the county council or the sejm, and they have never sat in it, cheating voters in some way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u599	Thank you, sir. The last question is asked by Mrs Ewa Lieder and therefore closes the list of Members who have enlisted in the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u600	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I know that everything has already been said here today, but some issues need to be made very clear once more. I strongly support the two-cadency of the mayors and mayors and the presidents, because if someone doesn't have time to improve the situation of their people for eight years, they won't do it for the next eight years either. The change, which is a very bad solution, will reduce the number of tickets in the districts. This change promotes the concreteisation of the political scene and leads to a two-party system. I don't know if you're aware that's what's going to happen in local governments. This is particularly true for the Seyms and the Sejm, because in the introduced law in the form of a real threshold of entry will be a threshold of 20%. So no new formation, no political initiative will have any chance. This reduces democracy. I wonder what you're afraid of and why you don't believe in your constituents and your strength. Do you have to eliminate your competitors? I think it would be better to win fair and square, that, ladies and gentlemen, is a much greater satisfaction. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the room: Bravo, Eve!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u601	I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Sebastian Chwałk to speak. You're welcome, Minister, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u602	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna try a short one, 'cause it's all been said. Let me just mention that it is important to note that election matters remain outside the sphere of government administration, because they are not covered by any of its departments, nor are they replaced by other normative acts concerning the operation of the members of the Council of Ministers and the service of their offices. It is worth mentioning here that the matter relating to the elections to the constitutional authorities of the State and to the bodies of local government units and to the European Parliament, because of its nature, is a domain of Parliament, which has repeatedly evaluated it and has acted with its initiatives. There is currently no government position on these draft laws. The Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, particularly with regard to the 2001 print project, is in turn in favour of changes that enable residents to engage more closely either directly or through elected bodies to decide on matters of the territorial community concerned. There was only one question concerning the budgeting of measures to implement this law. As this project has not yet been adopted, for obvious reasons there is no provision in the budget for this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u603	Thank you very much. In order to speak, representatives of the applicants have also come forward. We begin with the 2001 print, so Mr Łukasz Schreiber will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u604	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There have been many questions during this discussion and let me start answering club speeches first, at least single questions, and then I will answer those questions that were most common. At the end, however, I will refer to some of the good proposals that we have heard. High Izbo! One can say - it is so as to unload the atmosphere - that everyone in Poland, as we know, knows football, and every parliamentarian, as a result of this discussion, knows about ordination and self-government. [[No, the authors certainly don't.]] Nearly a third of the Members of the High House spoke during this debate today. I think this is one of the records of the High House. And now I will answer the questions, first Mr Neumann. Well, I must say that Mr Neumann started out of a thick pipe, namely that the project is anti-Citizenish. Well, here's the information that needs to get to the residents. It turns out that anti-Citizen records are among others. raising citizens' initiative to the status of a citizens' law, introducing civic budgets for cities on the rights of the county, allowing citizens to participate in debates in the council of the municipality, in the district council and in the sejm of the voivodeship, guaranteeing the formation of a committee of complaints, petitions and proposals. I wonder how he's gonna explain it, also the fact that the councilmen are gonna have more control. But that's probably a question for him. He also said it was about politicising the government. This is a very interesting remark, because I read it in such a way that the Platform will not issue a letter in the forthcoming elections to any local authorities. After all, it's not about politicising the local government. [[Applause]] Case number three: electoral threshold. The electoral threshold in the three-mandate districts is said to be 20%. That's not true, because here's the math game, so he can be different, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] The logic of this way of thinking is worth paying attention to. Well, one-mandate districts have to be left, which is relatively much higher, but three-mandate districts are bad, because the electoral threshold is higher. I ignore the fact that there are three-mandate districts in the electoral code prepared by the P.O. to the county council, and somehow this... [[It didn't bother you.]] ... The platform didn't bother you, but apparently times have changed. Let's move on. What else is there? Oh, and last but not least... Yes, I must be a little witty, and you have concluded that the Platform promises something, and as the Platform promises, we all know how it ends. [[Applause]] [[Like with your 5,000 bill for yours. Corite plus.]] Then Mr Kukiz. I have to say, I have a problem here to answer. Of course, I'm going to skip this layer of throwing some kind of more or less disgusting insect. Let's focus and try to squeeze the minimum content out of this. Let us start by saying that, since Mr President has already taken the role of such a mentor, he might know how he is different - after two years in Parliament - from the rapporteur to the rapporteur. It seems like it should be contained, but I understand it shouldn't. [[He already foresaw the future.]] Next case. About meetings with Nowogrodzka. I don't know where the information came from. I understand you can tell anything. The next thing that needs to be explained, because it also rained, as I counted, in almost a dozen questions, is that this councilman will now be a paratrooper from the voivodship. [[Voice from the room: That's fine.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is... I mean, I understand that reading this draft law, not much, can cause some problems, but since we have this discussion, and since it's all been explained, it seems like you could try to understand what's going on. I'll explain again. High Izbo! After all, the aim of this change is not for a councilman from Radom to win a ticket in Warsaw or vice versa, because you know perfectly well, and I know that if someone is running in local elections and is not completely connected with the municipality, there is absolutely no chance. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Unless he's on number one on the PiS list.]] That he's gonna run, so, my God, he's gonna run. But it is something completely different: the ending with the fatal principle that happens today, which bans de facto the councilman, also the one who moves during the term of office, and for various reasons people move, especially in the big city, to the neighbouring commune, sometimes for health reasons, sometimes for family reasons, and sometimes these are completely life situations... And then they should lose seats like this. They cannot, although they are also engaged for many years, then de facto run. From here there are later these completely absurd, fictitious reports from my grandmother, my aunt, my friends, pretending to live with my wife, but she doesn't live with her, and she's actually seeing her. Such arguments then fall. In addition, there is another situation, and this is also the case, that a person spends almost all his time living in one village, but in fact later he has been working in another for many years, he does not move, but is more connected with it and wants to run and apply for a mandate. High Izbo! Of course, we are open to a full discussion here, but I will point out that you have plenty of councillors as POs. And I will point out that in my Bydgoszcz is the case of one of these councilmen. So if you're so basic that this is such a scandal... [[What about Alderman PiS who had a history of domestic violence?]] ...you absolutely must remove them all immediately. But I wouldn't want to remove them, because they're often people who are involved in the life of their city. All right. And, of course, we've heard about the JOWs in general. High Izbo! It is possible to adopt this kind of level of argument, which appeared here in many speeches, that the lack of JOWs is essentially a lack of democracy in these one-mandate districts. It's an idea of anything original. It also asks the question of what the state that speaks it out of this pulpit is doing here. But I understand. High Izbo! After all, I tried to explain it in a completely precise and clear way. Today we are dealing with, and you know it, monomandate districts only in municipalities outside the cities on the rights of the county. And you are well aware that in these municipalities, mostly small municipalities, this leads, quite often unfortunately, to one of the two situations. First of all, the composition of the council is not a reflection of the election result. These examples were given by... [[There won't be any after that shift.]] ...Mr Marcin Horała in a very clear and interesting way, I think. And of course, he's never gonna be like that... [[The liquidation of JOWs won't change anything either.]] ...but there's a difference when the committee that gets, I don't know, up to 40%, gets 50% seats in the Council, compared to the fact that the committee winning 28% he receives a set of councillors in a given municipality and has a situation in which there is no opposition, there is no one who looks at the hands of the authorities. Well, if it is that someone gets 90%, then you can say that it's great, but if it is that it is, and there are such communes, total minimum wins in each of the districts, and the handicap de facto is that you run off from the list of the mayor or the mayor who promises that if this councilman comes, we will do this and that, well, that's, High Isbo, probably a serious argument for discussion. [[Is that bad?]] Mr President, you all have the right to have an opinion on this issue, but why do you use such strong, completely unauthorized arguments in the discussion on this subject? We have the right to differ, we have the right to have another idea. [[You're politicizing the government.]] Let's move on, 'cause it's gonna be a little more fun. Modern. On behalf of the Modern One, Mr Owl spoke. Well, Mr Owl, to put it mildly, not only does he not know the records of this ordination... [[Which point?]] ...unfortunately, he also does not know the records currently in force and saw a paratrooper candidate for mayor of one city or another. Well, I inform the honourable Member that, in the light of the current rules, you can be a paratrooper by running for your nephew, mayor or president... [[That's hypocritical.]] ...and that no one forbids it. And it's in the electoral code that you've put into practice. Let's move on. The problem is that the votes will be counted longer, but that's also what we argued. On the other hand, Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus said that everything we said when it comes to this pro-Citizen democratic package is already in force. It is a pity, then, that it does not appear at the sessions of our joint provincial sejm, the Sejm of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship, because there, for example, regular points of order brought by the opposition councilmen are rejected and there is no discussion about them at all. We are not talking about the fact that the resolution is rejected, but that we cannot even discuss a point. [[Just like in the Seym at present.]] Yeah, yeah, just like the Seym. This debate serves that purpose, I'm sure. [[In the Seym, the opposition is financially punished for taking the floor.]] Let me remind you that we are also debating the project of the Kukiz club15. High Izbo! Another quite interesting statement that the resident of Torun will be able to take off in Bydgoszcz. Well, he can. I guess it'll end at the start. Well, if he wants to try his strength, my fellow Member, he can try. I don't think he's gonna just walk out of that podium by then. And the leader of PSL. He said, very bravely started, that we were afraid of elections. This is brave, I must say, a statement in the mouth of the party leader who lost to Law and Justice 5 to 38. That, I have to say, actually sounds dangerous. [[In the municipal election?]] Next case. PKW - comparing what it looks like until 1947. I don't know, they started building schools, too, and it's... it's also possible to say that it would be a problem that the school was built in this way, not another way. However, I will point out that I had a little regret and a feeling of sadness that there was no word until 1989 about what happened after 1947, because interesting things were happening. [[Peterowicz knows a lot about this.]] There was then a question, such an accusation, which later repeated several of you: where are the indictments of 2014, there is no, no one has been convicted, there is no trial. Apart from what was raining, among others. from Mr Skurkiewicz's lips, but let me remind you... [[Voice from the Chamber: Where are the 2014 results?]] ...because such short research only did: Domaszowice, Tarłów, and sentenced - in Pyrzyce, Jedlni-Letnisko. High Izbo, so it's not true that there are no trials going on. And these are the trials in which the accused or already convicted are the officers, the secretaries of the communes, as well as the members of the regional electoral committees who participated in the forgery. And what else was there... Yeah, well, there's the IT system, the High Izbo, the IT system. This was also evident in the speeches of the State Election Commission. This is what Mr Horała was talking about, and this is really a question that needs to be asked here. There is no malice in this, but I think that the intention of everyone in the High House is to learn from the State Election Commission - I think there will be an opportunity for this during the work of the committee that will process the projects - whether, in fact, as Mr Horała asked, these data are sewn up or whether this is how the system was purchased. I'm going to draw your attention, and I think most of you know very well that you can never buy a system in advance and know what all the data is because circles are changing. [[But when do they change?]] They would have changed whether we adopted this bill or not. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u605	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u606	The circles are changing, for example. The population is declining. And in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship there is also such a doubt that we will not fall below 2 million, and then we will lose three seats and then all the constituency will look completely different. Councils of municipalities and district councils can self-create today what the districts look like, what the municipalities look like, how they are divided. [[Exactly.]] Don't you know that? I'm really surprised. It's not like it's secret knowledge. I'm sure the National Election Commission knows that. The question is, what's the problem? I'm sure we'll want an answer to that question. I wish she had died today. High Izbo! Now I'm going to go to the questions that were most often asked. Undoubtedly, the leader is the two-channel issue of the mayors, mayors and presidents with or without a pass of the term of office. That's how I understand it. There's a bill that's supposed to be incomprehensible. That's what I said. I hear no one's heard, I'm sorry. I will read to you if the articles are too vague, justification for the bill, one sentence. The introduced term of office will apply for the first time to the elections of elected local authorities, mayors and presidents throughout the country, ordered in connection with the expiry of the current term of office of local government units elected in local elections, starting on 16 November 2014. This is in the law, i.e. since the elections to be held in 2018. I think that settles the matter in a very obvious way. [[The justification is not a legal act.]] If not, I encourage you to work on the committee, just send Members who can read the legislation. [[Voice from the room: Don't insult me.]] [[Superintelligence.]] High Izbo! Next case, correspondence vote. The correspondence vote is a subject that has appeared here many times. The correspondence vote is a question that can arouse emotions, but it was also translated in this bill, that it is de facto not possible to introduce control instruments and to ensure that this vote will not take place in breach of the rules. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] High Izbo! You just don't like listening, and then you ask questions. [[If there was something smart, she'd listen.]] [[To your destination, to your destination.]] Okay, next thing you know, two committees. There were questions, too. Again, the case, High Izbo, seems obvious. Besides, you stress that the procedure for calculating votes itself will be a little longer, of course not as absurdly long as it was here, but a little longer. This makes people who have to sit from 7 a.m. to 21 a.m. and then start counting votes, which will take another hour or so, extremely exhausted. Perhaps in many committees it would be necessary at least to stop work and join them only after a break. This is the situation we wanted to avoid. We wanted fresh people to start counting votes. After all, the same composition, you will have the same right to delegate representatives to both committees. Let me draw your attention to the fact that this is not a novel. It's not like it's an invention of law and justice. In many countries, there is a rule that one committee works to close the polls and the other takes over the protocols and counts the votes. It's based on a pattern, a British model. This is the case, among other things. in the UK. After Great Britain, of course, a number of countries have introduced such a solution. The intention is this very real celebration of democracy, which would consist in the fact that in the case of the whole commune or perhaps some large parts of the communes, as far as larger cities are concerned, it would be counting votes in a common place, as it looks like in the United Kingdom, with the possibility of involving not only members of the committee or the husbands of trust, but in general residents of a given commune or city. [[That's what I need JOWs for.]] High Izbo! Here's another thing. Actually, I was talking about a councilman from the voivodship. Chiefs. Everything can be brought back again with an ad absurdity. The Commissioners, High Izbo, are also in today's ordination, in today's electoral code, this name is valid. The attack on this bill because officials are called the same as in the current state of affairs is quite strange. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this number of Commissioners, which is growing, is linked to only one issue. It combines with the fact that the municipalities do not organise elections. We said to ourselves that this is a situation that may, I stress, maybe give birth to pathological situations. Of course, we both know dozens of great wojews, mayors, presidents of our cities, as well as every member of the Law and Justice. We're just talking about eliminating situations that everyone in this room, I understand, wouldn't want to be dealt with. There were also many such malicious, though not funny, accusations from the opposition, and quite absurd accusations. I've been thinking about answering that, but let's just drop it. I will only draw attention to these positive solutions and questions. Mrs Szydleko asked an important question, which was asked by the PKW president in one of the interviews, that now, after the reform of the State Election Commission in 2019, there could be a situation, because the reports are assessed by the PKW, that the majority of committee members think on their own behalf because they are recommended by the political force concerned. First of all, you have repeatedly claimed from this speaker that judges, for example. The Constitutional Court is not the judges of the Platform. Now, as I understand it, if they are chosen by the POs, they are not, and how they are chosen by e.g. Law and Justice, that's it. But aside from this kind of diwagation, I will point out that even if the Law and Justice, which I understand you are afraid of, will have a constitutional majority after the next elections, even then will have a maximum of three out of nine representatives, so that you can sleep peacefully. Okay, here's the deal. Mrs Rozpondek - to be close to people... Oh, I've already answered about this councilman from the voivodship. Mr Anczynski - has the opposition been given a place in the PKW and OKW, is this representation greater than in the situation of the governing party and is this mechanism really universal? You can say, of course, that there is, because the term of office... Therefore, the term of office of the PKW is to be four years in the case of representatives elected by Parliament, so that this is not the case where the new power can now have complete control over such an electoral commission. Mrs Tomaszewska drew attention to the fact that local referendums were not done here and perhaps it would be worth it. This is indeed an interesting request which, at the stage of the committee's work, I think, should be taken into account when it comes to e.g. the number of signatures to be collected for the referendum. Mr Paul spoke about securing the councilman's size of clubs. It is in this bill - three councillors for 30-person councils, a minimum of 1/10 on boards of more than 30-persons. The comments were right - but they were already in some sense also consummated - by Minister Chefnernaker regarding the IT system. I think that this certainly needs clarification, and this certainly requires a thorough examination and consideration of where the problem may actually be. Finally, the question... Mr Bartosik spoke about this. This is a ban on the mayors, mayors and presidents of the simultaneous running for office, as well as for a seat on the council of the county or the sejm. Everyone used it often, because since it was allowed, everyone had equal rights, but in fact it is often a fraud by the fact that the sure mandate of the governor, the mayor or the president is only running to be the electoral locomotive of some list, and never sits in this district. Mr Skurkiewicz - thank you for this vote on void votes. And Mr Uściński - a very good remark about the extension of the vacathio legis for voting registration. Either this will have to be accepted, or we will have to consider a solution that will safeguard this situation. High Izbo! We are really starting the legislative process today. I wish there were so many bad emotions from the beginning. I am convinced that we can and should discuss in a substantive manner, however, that such work will take place in committees and that we can all afford this work because Poles expect us to do so. We may be different, but I don't think it makes any sense to be offended. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u607	Thank you very much. Representative of the applicants Mr Andrzej Maciejewski - print No 2023. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u608	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, At first, I thank everyone very much for the opportunity to take part in the discussion and for the opportunity to listen to your various opinions. Ladies and gentlemen, why the JOWs? In 1990, I was 19 years old and had the privilege of being offered by the people of my neighborhood... Here I greet Mr. Zdzisław Płępiak, one of the residents of my family Bartoszyc, my neighborhood. At the age of 19, I got an offer to run for councilman, former JOWs, there were no party lists, and I had two more opponents in front of me: former... school principal and another master. I won with them as a young man, and after 2 years I had the opportunity to be the youngest president of the city council in Poland at the age of 21. [[Applause]] I want to show you one thing: if it weren't for the JOWs, maybe today I wouldn't be where I am because the JOWs showed up and gave everyone a chance, ladies and gentlemen, if you're 19, if you're 20 or you're 50 years old. Everyone has a level playing field. [[They weren't JOWs back then.]] If he is a Polish citizen, he has the right to vote, he has the right to stand for elections - he has the right to stand for elections. I'm glad the JOWs have nothing to do with the election scandals. Please note that in this whole few hours of discussion, there has not been a single time that the JOWs have made electoral scandals. Did you pay attention to this? [[Applause]] There was no vote that there was an election scandal. What's more, there was a lot of resentment: well, I win and I have no power, I lose. Ladies and gentlemen, we've come up with a democracy, that's our system, somebody wins, somebody loses. It's kind of like running in a marathon -- a thousand people run, one wins, and he's from Kenya. Everyone wants to win, and it's hard to be offended that somebody wins, somebody loses, somebody wins with a minimum of two or three votes. This is the rule of democracy. Whoever gets more votes wins. I understand that Law and Justice have a grudge, too, and he hears a grudge because you won with only 20 or 30% support. voters. But you've won, and that's democracy - and that's democracy. And you also have the right attention to your P.O. colleagues that they're throwing you out that you've only won with that percentage. But you won because those are the electoral rules. It's the same in the JOWs. Whoever gets more votes wins. It's hard to blame the voters of the five candidates for choosing this gentleman, and he won with 10 votes. The question is whether it's fair that a candidate on the party list doesn't get up to 100 votes, often doesn't get up to 50 votes and becomes a councilman because he's on the right list, and the candidate on the citizens list has hundreds of votes and he's not going to be a councilman because he wasn't on the right election list. It's kind of like this joke: it's not an important topic of master's work, it's who's the promoter. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's not be offended that somebody wins and loses because that's how it works, works, and at the same time... It's for Mr. Schreiber. Mr. Schreiber says, "Well, yeah, somebody's gonna be the mayor, and he's got an opposition or no opposition." Well, he has an opposition, sir, voters are his greatest opposition and ally. Let's just do one thing: let's make reference law, and there will be this real opposition, and people will see the point. People will see the point and see that their voice is not ignored, that someone takes it seriously, and really realizes it later. Let's do it, sir. Let's make a change to the local referendum bill, and you'll see that at this point, where there's no opposition, there will be citizens. The sovereign is the greatest power. No, not the mayor, not the councilmen. This isn't a private farm. The villagers are owners, not the villagers. It's worth remembering, and it's worth keeping it at heart, because, ladies and gentlemen, that's what JOWs are all about. The JOWs aren't a sacred cow, they're not perfect. Moreover, political scientists agree and everyone says clearly: there is no ideal electoral system, but the JOWs are a tool for building a society that is aware that I have the right to run, I have the right to be elected and choose. I know who I choose, and at the same time I have the right to demand, expect the implementation of the program, the electoral promises. There's no more anonymity here. That's what the power of the JOWs is all about. The question is, why do we want JOWs everywhere? Because the JOWs in the municipalities showed their real strength. Direct elections of the mayors, presidents, mayors have shown their real strength and healthy tissue. They showed healthy tissue, and they showed that it was thanks to it that it was a strong bond of executive power. We know who's in charge, we know who's in charge, who's in charge. Here's another thing. Mr Piotr Kaleta. Yes, we want to change the electoral order. Kukiz, 15 of this law wants to change the electoral order. We'd like to offer you one thing. Since we know, and here also a request to the gentlemen of the Law and Justice, to the majority of Parliament, since we agree that this system has been proportionate for 27 years, less in counties and voivodships, has not worked out in the way that we would expect in society - scandals, various constellations, parties, talks, arrangements, we say: there is no citizenship, etc. - let's change it, let's do JOWs. As it was, we already know. Let's try what is already strong and solid on local soil. Let us not be afraid to give citizens a chance to realize, let us not infect local governments with the flu of partying, because Parliament is here. No problem, parties in parliament - no problem. Today in the Chamber everyone spoke - and this is also an important issue - about the politicisation of local governments. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest you distinguish stubbornness from politicisation. Self-governments conduct politics, just as the Sejm conducts politics. Self-governments run local politics. There is a difference between politicisation - because this politicisation will always be, every action is politics - and stubbornness. Local policy is okay, stubbornness is be. That's what you gotta call it. And that's why we want JOWs, JOWs on the level and district, and voivodship, because, once again, through the stubbornness of letters in a proportional system, we have caused many marshals to feel like princes in the country. That's why, gentlemen. That's why, because they felt like great power and didn't care about the prime minister, the government, the MPs. Yeah, that's why they feel that way. Because they can't feel the voter's hand, they can't feel the sovereign's hand because they're anonymous. The sign is his determinant, not the voter. That's why we want it. We want to raise this bar and offer the public a conscious participation in the governance of small homelands on the ground of municipalities, as it is today, but also of powiats and voivodships. We're not afraid of it. We're not afraid of it, because when it is today, we already know, and I think we have nothing to lose, we have nothing here to threaten us with. In other words, let us not be afraid of democracy, let us trust our citizens, because they too have the right to make a decision. Here is a note to Mr Jarosław Krajewski. I didn't say once that we didn't want to increase the authority of the council. The fact that we want to give citizens decision-making power in the elections to the counties, to the voivodships, shows that Kukiz is not afraid. We're not afraid. We're not afraid. Let's not be afraid of our countrymen, let's not be afraid of the sovereign. The power that fears the sovereign ends somewhere else, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u609	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u610	So, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, thank you all for the discussion, the very interesting discussion, thank you for supporting our project and I encourage all the strength to really, seriously introduce JOWs at all levels of the local government. I hope this happens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u611	Thank you very much. I do not give the floor to Mr Mark Sowa in the manner of correcting, because I do not accept that the conditions of the Article are fulfilled. Paragraph 184. 1 of the Rules of Procedure. [[Voice from the courtroom, Marshal...]] The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u612	In the explanatory memorandum of the bill, we read: "The regulations amending the electoral code boils down to ensuring proper transparency, transparency, civic control of the electoral process and authorities obliged to prepare and conduct elections. They are intended to eliminate, at least to a significant extent, potential abuses and irregularities. Combating such abuses is a concern for democracy and civil liberties, not denying these values. How, therefore, are the proposed amendments to this provision, such as: 1. The liquidation of one-mandate electoral districts in municipal council elections - i.e. the elimination of the actual representation of the community? 2. Introducing political commissioners in place of the current electoral commissioners - i.e. taking political control of the elections? 3. Allowing deletions and blurrings on the ballots for a simple forgery of the card - i.e. discretionaryly and according to your own will?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u613	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Question for the applicant. Currently, public votes in the Sejm are registered and any voter can see how his representative voted in one case or another. However, in the much closer everyday life of local governments there is often only a general protocol, e.g. Ten votes in favour, five votes against, and the resident can't see how his councilman voted on an important case for him. It is good that there is a solution in the project that introduces an obligation to register and make public the list of votes of the councillors. Question: "What if there is a failure of the voice-counting device or the local government will persist in buying and using it?"
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u614	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 1. What is the real reason to set up two electoral committees? What if the vote-counting committee finds that there are fewer ballot cards in the ballot box than the election committee that issued the ballot cards? What about it? Who will be responsible for this situation? Did the applicants anticipate this situation? 2. If no electoral committees are set up in a small community to conduct elections, what will the electoral commissioner take to make the elections to the local government possible? 3. The essence of the self-government is the participation of its representatives, the councillors in the exercise of authority in the municipality, so I ask why you share the villages, denying the inhabitants of the community to choose your councilman. How does this apply to the Social Fund and the Civil Fund?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u615	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The argument to support the JOWs is the alleged denial of the municipalities' councils, which would bring this ordination. This seems to be a missed thesis because, as a rule, local committees in the local elections achieve good results, regardless of whether proportional or majority ordination is in force. This is responsible for the particularities of these elections, in which residents are more guided by the choice of specific individuals than political formations, and also the fact that parties in many municipalities do not issue party lists and their members start off with lists of local committees. So I have a question to ask the applicant: Do the previous experiences of the JOWs really indicate that the municipalities and cities councils are being separated from each other?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u616	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! An important impulse to propose the proposed rules was the unprecedented compromise of the PKW in the organisation of elections in 2014. Aren't the applicants concerned that the PKW will want what she signaled last week, to throw the blame for her organizational deficiencies on the authors of the project? Is it not, therefore, the State Election Commission itself, even when adopting the best procedural rules, today, an entity whose action or lack of action threatens to destabilise the electoral process? Is it true that the proposed legislation requires candidates to join political groups, as some Kukiz Members say15, or is it enough to set up a non-party electoral committee?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u617	In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the bill at first reading... [[The voice from the hall: his envoy...]] [[Let's vote!]] There are no members of his or another club for the person sitting here behind this table. They're all equals. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law in print 2001 at first reading and to refer the draft laws in print 2001 respectively - if the draft in print No 2001 is not rejected - and in print No 2023 to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: First reading of the Commission's draft law amending the Civil Code Act (Print No. 1912). I ask Mr Tomasz Szymanski to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u618	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! After such a comprehensive discussion about Poland's future in the area of the forthcoming elections, we are faced with something that certainly should not arouse the greatest political emotions, and is strictly addressed to all of us, because we are all consumers as we sit here. The subject matter is very mild, very delicate, very important for each of us every day, and concerns the powers which the petition committee believes should be granted to anyone who will benefit from the possibilities of the so-called. Hands. But what is it? Ladies and gentlemen! The author of the proposed law is Sebastian Adamowicz from Gdansk, who believes that the current legal situation resulting from the provisions of the Civil Code is insufficient to protect consumers. The law is very short because it contains an amendment to the article. 568 add Article. 568 with the following content: If the buyer is a consumer, the seller's liability for the warranty runs again from the day of the exchange of goods for fault-free goods. The contested draft law amending the Civil Code provides for a very important social impact, as I said, because it will lead to greater consumer protection. Consumers have the right to exchange goods for rights free of defects, but what is most important is the question of the date of liability of the seller in such a case, because it does not change and counts from the date of issue of the original purchased goods. This regulation is intended to ensure that, in the event of the exchange of warranties for goods free of defects, the seller's liability for the same warranty will run from the beginning from the date on which the goods are released free of defects. This provision will be comparable, identical to the guarantee liability regime, which will allow even greater consumer protection and, in some situations, ensure the undisputed possibility of exercising warranty rights. Ladies and gentlemen! Why can petitions serve the proposed changes? They may mobilise sellers to pay great attention to the quality of the goods sold and to cooperate with those producers who will be able to ensure their quality. For manufacturers, the law will be a trigger for effective response when consumers find faults in their products. This will be a measurable factor for honest manufacturers and sellers offering good quality goods and services. Another important social effect of the proposed law is a possible positive impact on the budgets of a small group of households. By increasing consumer protection, the consumer will have the right to exchange goods at a time when, under the current rules, he would already be forced to cover the costs of repairing goods or buying new goods or services. If we look at this from the point of view of economic operators, the proposed law may have a minor negative impact on their revenues or costs if they would be obliged to trade goods several times for fault-free at the request of the same consumer. However, we must first of all point out that complaint procedures are a source of information for a reliable producer, a signal from the market on improving the quality of the goods offered, and the complaint procedure, from which the consumer is satisfied, is a very important element of marketing policy for a large number of companies. This approach to business results in a measurable increase in revenue, which will compensate for possible minor negative effects on the company concerned. Ladies and gentlemen! This draft law was addressed by the Confederation of Leviathan and, in its opinion on the contested law, the Confederacy points out that the most important problem of this amendment is not the direction of change, but the lack of a comprehensive regulation to amend other provisions on warranties which would allow the trader to complete at some stage the process of multiple replacement of goods, for example by enabling the trader to withdraw from the contract and refund the paid claim to the consumer. It may occur when a product with unusual properties exhibits a certain defect after a short period of time, e.g. After a 6-month period of use, the consumer will be replaced cyclically as he will only be interested in the short-term use of the product. Ladies and gentlemen! Given that this draft, in the opinion of the committee, will have an absolute positive impact on the functioning of consumers in the economic market and on increasing their protection comparable to the statutory formula of guarantees and the same conditions regarding the term of protection, the Committee on Petitions will ask that this law be welcomed by a favourable eye... so that, thanks to State aid, it can, of course, go to the codification committee, so that it can be further processed in substance over these records, taking into account of the opinion of the parties who issued the opinions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u619	Thank you very much for the smooth presentation of the proposal. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mrs Barbara Bartus to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u620	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to present the position of my Parliamentary Club Law and Justice against the Commission's draft law amending the Civil Code Act. As the applicant's representative said, the bill concerns a small change in the guarantee for disadvantages. The Civil Code contains the entire section on warranties for defects, starting with Article. 556, where there is a definition of warranty, which provides that the seller is liable to the buyer if the item sold has a physical or legal defect. As I say, the Civil Code contains a whole section dedicated to it. The petitioning committee proposes to amend one provision: after the article. Article 568 shall be inserted. 568. It would seem that the change is small, but the whole of this change needs to be considered and in the context of those positive changes which could, through this change, be made in the economy, in the purchasing situation, and in the overall situation, in terms of the guarantee and guarantee that comes from the producer. Mr Leviathan quoted a part of his opinion on the ground. You have not pointed out that this opinion is, in fact, negative in relation to this project, pointing to its shortcomings. Sometimes with good intentions, many people want to change the rules that are the most important ones. It may not be the spine, but it's the main bones, because we're talking about changing the Civil Code. Looking at the practice on a specific matter, however, we need to look at these provisions in a holistic way. As Leviathan points out, there could be a situation that certain individuals might abuse these provisions. Therefore, the project, although the change is small, requires a detailed analysis. On behalf of my club, however, I would like this draft to be dealt with by the Committee on Changes to the Codes, in order to look at it as a whole, so as not to make rash changes. We do not say no to the project, but I cannot guarantee that we will support these changes either. Let's analyze it and see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u621	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Zdzisław Gawlik to present his position on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u622	Dear Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its position on amendments to the Civil Code, in relation to the novel. As regards the change, this amendment concerns the modification of the strictest principle of liability of the seller for absolute liability. This is the responsibility for the effect itself. This amendment concerns one of the four rights that a buyer may exercise in the event of a physical defect or a legal defect. An examination of this very laconic provision, as the previous speakers said, could indicate that the extension of the period in principle in which the consumer can exercise his warranty rights would be of great benefit to him, because it is theoretically possible that the consumer exercising this right will be able to exercise several times the right to exchange things free of defects under his right. Theoretically, therefore, this may happen so that the duration of the seller's liability will extend whenever the buyer exercises his right, times twice. Theoretically, this time can be extended indefinitely. Let me remind you that today this right is limited by a 2-year binding term. Today everyone, both the consumer and the seller, knows that each of these four rights can be realized within a maximum period of 2 years, because we have a 2-year deadline for detecting defects. At the same time, I would like to point out that one can imagine a situation of this kind, that the buyer will exercise for several years the right to exchange things for free of defects and, finally, will benefit from his farthest-reaching right to withdraw from the contract. Thus, the amendment of this provision, which points to the benefits that the consumer will achieve, raises some doubts that what is really meant for the consumer to benefit this additional benefit may turn against the consumer. Please note, first of all, that the trader who is a seller, aware of the possible powers that the buyer will exercise, will do anything, and can do so in the light of current legal provisions, in order to prevent him from making use of the exchange of goods free of defects, and will never fulfil that claim. Please also note the second circumstance. If a market watcher concludes that such a risk of warranty liability will continue or may continue indefinitely, he must take this into account in the costs of his business. If he has to make things available several times and it's not known when it's going to end, then in his economic account, the event also has to be included. I think we should also consider this entrepreneur's risk, as it seems. In a situation where such consumer behaviour is widespread and the scale of this responsibility and costs is increasing, there may even be a financial failure of the entrepreneur. We were supposed to protect this consumer and this protection was supposed to last for a longer period of time, but because of the absence of this entrepreneur who, due to financial risks, would not actually benefit from these opportunities. I think that it is also important in the course of the discussion - because we are in favour of this bill being passed to the committee responsible - to eliminate this interruption of the term of exercise of the rights with the guarantees that we are dealing with in this amended provision. It seems appropriate to consider how to limit the rights of a consumer exercising his right to exchange things for fault-free goods and how these other rights would be exercised in the event that the consumer wishes to exercise his rights for guarantees. I therefore request that the project be submitted to the committee responsible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u623	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u624	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 on the Act amending the Civil Code Act, print No. 1912. It's a small project, not a lot of changes, and it's non-controversial. In this project, it is proposed that the term of liability of the seller for warranties should be the same as that of the guarantee - renewed at the time of handing over the new goods to the buyer. The question is, is the new... [[Free of flaws.]] Things free of flaws, yes. Thus, there is a kind of harmonisation here, which, in my view, as a lawyer, but also in the assessment of colleagues from the Kukiz club15, is justified. On the other hand, referring to the allegations, more doubts of my esteemed previous speaker that this may cause excessive liability of sellers for the defective goods sold, those which had to be mentioned or repaired, I will say that there is no concern here, because if the seller sells goods that are defective and then it is necessary to replace them, then he may be liable for who sold them to him. Unless he created the defective product himself, then it will be a motivating factor to increase, improve the quality of the manufactured or offered products, but, as I say, it does not always affect the quality of the product when offering. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, without further ado, I find that the Kukiz Club will recommend to its Members the support of this project, and at this stage it is in favour of the project being sent to the relevant committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u625	Mr Mirosław Pampuch, on behalf of the Modern Club, made his statement in writing. Would any of you, your fellow Members and your fellow Members like to join the list of people who want to ask a question? I can't see, so I'm closing the list. Time - 1 minute. Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15 begins. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u626	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The question of how applicants view such a proposal to introduce an even further solution, as today it is proposed that a product or defective product should be exchanged for a product or product free of defects. How about a new product? So there is even greater responsibility on the part of the seller or producer, but such signals also reach my parliamentary office from people who just bought the goods, then received free of defects, but actually on old components, but I will not go into the details here. So the question is: What do you say to go even further and that this product is not only flaw-free, but also brand-new? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u627	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Club Civic Platform. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u628	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When discussing the proposed amendment to the Civil Code, which is the result of a petition, one thing is not difficult to notice. The draft amendment only applies to warranty rights in the case of consumer sales, so when buying for a company when replacing defective goods with new after some time the term of protection will continue to be calculated from the date of the original sale. I just wanted to ask briefly: Will the designers of the changes that are going in the right and desired direction take this into account in further proceeding to amend the Civil Code Act? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u629	Thank you very much. I do not see Mr Grzegorz Furga from the Civic Platform. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u630	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This is an interesting project concerning the guarantees and the giving of goods free of defects to customers. I welcome this initiative from the Committee on Petitions and forward this proposal to the codification committee. However, I have a question for the Member representing the applicants. We know perfectly well that the deadlines for implementing the codes are set. In this case, what do you think about shortening this term so as to apply this solution good for the customer, but I also hope that reducing these risks on the part of people who are unreliable, because also on this market - we know very well - sometimes such unreliable people can find themselves? The point is to apply this term with guarantees and to run that term for guarantees and [[♪ The bell ♪]] so that the deadline for introducing this is as short as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u631	Thank you. Please address the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Łukasz Piebiak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u632	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will briefly present the draft position of the government towards the Commission's draft law amending the Civil Code Act. This is a project because the proposal prepared by the Ministry of Justice has been addressed to inter-ministerial arrangements and opinions. That deadline hasn't expired yet. The draft position stresses that, in order to protect the buyer's interest in the provision of defective goods in the performance of the sales contract, the institution's liability for the defect was introduced in the sales regulations, whereby the seller's responsibility was established in a manner independent of his fault, from the fault of the persons who act on his account, from the damage resulting from the provision of defective goods and from the seller's knowledge of the existence of the defect. According to Art. 568 § 1 first sentence of the Civil Code the seller shall be liable for the warranty if the physical defect is detected before the expiry of 2 years, and in the case of property defects - before the expiry of 5 years from the date of issue of the goods to the buyer. In view of the wording of this provision, it is appropriate to consider the statement set out in the explanatory memorandum of the proposal that de lege summers in case of exchange of things for free of defects under the warranty, the consumer may be deprived of protection. The protection of consumers as a weaker party to the obligation relationship requires the formulation of rules on guarantees for sale, which will ensure that they have the highest possible level of security of transactions. To this end, there is no doubt that the proposed solution extends the term of liability of the guarantors in the case of sales contracts concluded with the consumer. Therefore, the direction of the proposed changes deserves approval. The project shows that the seller's liability for the warranty runs again from the day of the exchange for free from defects. Therefore, as regards the proposed wording of the provision, it should be noted that the wording used from the date of the exchange may give rise to interpretation doubts as to the specific moment from which the seller's liability for the warranty should be calculated after the replacement of the defective goods. It cannot be excluded that, in practice, this wording will not be interpreted as the day of giving away things free from defects to the consumer, but for example. as the day the seller sends such a thing to the consumer. In order to remove any doubts in this respect, the proposed provision should be clarified by clearly indicating that it is the date of issue of the said, i.e. free of defects, to the consumer. I conclude that, taking into account the need to strengthen the protection of consumer rights as a weaker party to the commitment relationship, the draft law amending the Civil Code law should be aimed at further legislative work, subject to the comments made in the draft position of the government contained in the draft. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u633	Thank you very much. A representative of the applicants, Mr Tomasz Szymański. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u634	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! A little point. It's not a parliamentary bill, it's a commission bill. I am pleased that all parliamentary clubs have made a clear assessment of the need to protect the consumer as a weaker party in economic trade and have rightly pointed out the direction that work on this small change in the Civil Code should take place and that the codification committee should be the host of this change. She should be the subject of questions about who the consumer should be, whether it should be a natural person or a legal person or an entrepreneur. We read the petition, which made it clear that the consumer was a natural person. On the other hand, should the product be brand new or free of defects? We are giving a chance to the codification committee, which in a complementary, comprehensive way will recognise the issue as a whole. All these comments, which also emerged in the context of Leviathan's opinion, so that there is no such thing as that one of the parties to the trade may be omitted in this trade, which would be to the detriment of everyone. So that we sincerely thank you that we can end this day with a certain consensus that the consumer is the most important. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u635	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u636	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present the club's position on the committee proposal for a law amending the Civil Code Act. The aim of the proposed project is to improve consumer protection. According to current legal regulations, when goods are exchanged for defective goods under the guarantee, the term of guarantee shall run again from the time when the goods are delivered free of defects. The situation is different when the consumer decided to exercise his right of exchange for the benefit of guarantees free of defects. In this case the warranty period shall not be extended and counted from the moment of purchase of the goods. This state of affairs does not change even a multiple exchange of acquired things. As a consequence, such rules, where more than 6 months have passed since the original goods were issued, the enforcement of their warranty rights may be significantly impeded or even impossible. According to the project submitted in case of replacement of goods for warranty-free goods, the term of liability of the seller for the warranty will run from the beginning from the date of issue of the product free of defects. In this way, the provisions on guarantees and guarantees will coincide. There is no doubt that in the market it is usually the consumer who is weaker and that the protection of his rights should be the primary focus. The use of warranties often involves the need to cease the use of the goods while processing the application. A person who, as a result of poor quality of the goods and evident fault of the seller, is forced to exchange the goods for guarantees several times, is de facto deprived of the possibility of using the goods purchased. In such a situation, non-extension of the term with guarantees is detrimental to the consumer and gives an unfair advantage to the seller. Therefore, the Club The Modern Parliament will support the bill submitted and vote in favour of referring it to further work in the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u637	Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm are addressed by the Commission's draft law amending the Civil Code Act, contained in print No. 1912, to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications for consideration. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the draft law amending the Act on Nature Conservation and the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on fixed cash allowance for certain pensioners, pensioners and persons receiving pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions or teacher compensation benefits (print No 1913). I ask Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u638	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour, on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, to recommend to the High House a draft Print Act No. 1913, which provides for the granting of a fixed allowance for certain pensioners, renners, persons receiving pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions or teacher compensation benefits. A few words of justification. I think it is a simple, transparent and understandable project. Every pensioner, anyone who receives a previous benefit, once a year, on March 1st, receives... This benefit should be in accordance with the law, in accordance with the law. Such valorization is always carried out on 1 March, with a March payout being paid already paid. And so in 2009 this valorization was 85 PLN, in 2010 it was 70 PLN, I will not talk about peas, in 2011 it was 50 PLN, in 2012 - 71 PLN, in 2013 it was 70 PLN, in 2014 - 29 PLN, in 2015 - 36 PLN, and in 2016 it was 10 PLN. Some haven't even got that kind of money, that's what we have today. It depended on the premium period. If someone did not have a full premium period, there was no full benefit, then this benefit was lower. Many of the recipients today receive a net benefit of PLN 850. This is an embarrassingly low amount, because during this time, at least in the last year, food prices have increased significantly, you can see, and they continue to increase. Energy prices, insurance prices, we could calculate more things, even inflation today is over 2%. Thus, the real value of benefits for pensioners fell. This puts them in a very difficult situation, because the winter period is a particular period when more funds are spent. This is related to heating, with increased food expenditure, in the winter period at least coal prices increased for some sort of sorting by up to 30%. This is also significant and significant. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, we propose an addition, but we want this supplement to be granted once a year, it would be paid on 1 December, together with the December witnessing, until these lowest benefits are realized. They must be realized. They cannot be left at the same level and every year wondering whether this is enough or not. Is interest valorisation a good option, or should we use another method? These other ways, the mixed way, the additions, were used in the past. Even last year, this possibility was taken advantage of and I would like to say that an allowance of PLN 400 was paid, paid out with March witnessing. The situation is a little difficult when it comes to the entry into force of the Act, but it is not because of the applicants, because today we already have the end of November. I would like to say that our project was, Mrs. Marshal, notified on 29 September and 12 October, the Marshal sent it to the first reading. If we had done our first reading at that time, there would be no problem with such a simple formula that the project would already be adopted today. But it does not exempt us from the fact that this project is adopted by the High House and that pensioners, pensioners and all those who benefit from the benefits I mentioned earlier can benefit from this allowance. Many of the recipients come to my office and say they haven't had such low pensions yet. Of course, they did not decrease in quota, even, let's just say, they increased by 2,50, 2,80 or by 10 PLN, while our lives escaped and that's not the value anymore, it's not the money that was the year before. Therefore, in presenting this project, I would like to ask the marshal, the High House, for a smooth procedure, a quick reception so that we can pay these benefits again this year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u639	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would ask Mr Waldemar Andzel to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u640	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a position on the draft law on the fixed cash allowance for certain pensioners, pensioners and persons receiving pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions or teachers' compensation benefits, print No 1913. High Seym! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice knows and fully understands the needs of pensioners and pensioners in terms of financial support. The amount of benefits paid by the Social Insurance Institution and the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund is in many cases very small, which gives rise to legitimate expectations from the recipients. In response to these social expectations, the Government of Law and Justice, under the direction of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, has taken a number of steps to improve the social and financial situation of those looking for change in just two years. We have restored the right to retire for women aged 60 and for men aged 65. We've introduced a program of free meds for seniors under the name 75+. Only in the first year of operation of the programme did 2,200 thousand benefit from it. Seniors. The list of free medicines contains more than 1500 items. In 2017 alone the amount of PLN 564 million was secured for this project. All pensions have been valued since 1 March 2017. The lowest pensions, total invalidity pensions or survivor's pensions were raised from PLN 882,56 to PLN 1 000. zł, i.e. over 117 zlotys a month. A mechanism to value benefits paid from KRUS has been introduced. The new valorisation rules were used by 2.1 million social insurance fund recipients and almost all KRUS recipients, i.e. 1,100 thousand. persons. After raising the lowest pension to 1 000. zł The lowest pension in 2017 amounts to 50% minimum wage. High Seym! The above examples of pro-social, pro-social actions of the current government are only part of what we have already done. We have another 2 years of good change for Polish pensioners. With regard to the bill submitted by the Polish People's Party, I must present to the High House a few facts. The Polish People's Party, together with the Civic Platform, ruled in Poland continuously for 8 years. And what's in it for the retirees and the pensioners you're ladies and gentlemen today? The answer is nothing. It's been a lot worse. Namely, you raised the retirement age of Poles to 67 years old, which made women forced to work extra work for the next 7 years, and men for 2 years. And that's not the end of the bad changes you've made. The Polish People's Party, as it says about itself, is a peasant party. And what did Polish farmers have of your governments? I'll answer that. You have raised the retirement age for villagers insured in KRUS - note - from 55 years old for women and 60 for men to 67 years old. It was your contribution to improving the lives of pensioners and pensioners, residents of the Polish village. You consistently rejected all the projects brought forward by the opposition then by the Law and Justice pro-social, pro-emerital projects. You have deprived huge professional groups of the right to early retirement because of the so-called. harmful working conditions, which have led to a situation in which people who work in extremely difficult conditions often do not even live to retirement or who pass on to an under-high pension for incapacity for further work. You robbed Poles of half the funds collected in open pension funds. And now that you don't have much to say, you're presenting populist billings just to please society. But this number isn't gonna work anymore. Poles remember your governments very well and will not soon forget them. Law and Justice has its own support programme for pensioners and pensioners, with whom elections were held, and these elections with this programme won with the support of the vast majority of voters. Therefore, there is no support for populist opposition games in the form of such draft laws. Therefore, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be against the proposed bill at first reading. For your marshals, a motion to reject the law and justice club. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u641	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Agnieszka Hanajczyk, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u642	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Allow me to refer to the speech of my previous speaker. You started out quite nicely, nicely, and you ended up, well, hard, powerfully and very populistly. Let me ask you this simple question: If there are more pensioners and there are more pensioners because you have reduced your retirement age, will pensions be higher or lower? It is clear that there will be more and more projects related to the expectations of increasing pensions which, due to certain limited resources, will not be the highest. As the applicant has said, this project is very simple, very transparent, very understandable and would probably be very appealing to pensioners and pensioners. Print No 1913, the draft lays down the conditions for the acquisition of the right to a fixed monetary allowance and the rules for the payment and financing of that allowance. What is important is that the applicant has not presented, and I think that the most important thing for pensioners is the article. It's a five-year project. The allowance shall be payable in the amount of PLN 500 if the benefit or the sum of the benefits granted to the entitled person does not exceed PLN 1 000. PLN; 400 PLN if the benefit or the sum of the benefits of the person entitled to the pension is more than 1 000 PLN. PLN, however, not more than 1,5 thousand.; PLN 300 if the benefit or the sum of the benefits of this person is more than 1,5 thousand, but not more than 2 000. Here's a proposal to pay off this supplement from the office. What is also important in this project is that the benefit - that is the proposal - is exempt from income tax. And I understand the applicant, because the proposal is linked to the very good condition of our country. After all, you often quote this information. No doubt, on the other hand, pensioners and pensioners feel price increases in their pockets. Applicants shall indicate the source of funding. The NBP's profit payment in the Budget Act for 2017 amounted to 627 million with a piece, while in 2016. The National Bank of Poland recorded a profit of 9200 million. According to the NBP Act - here Krystyna Skowrońska says something - 95% of the amount of profit was transferred to the state budget after approval of the annual accounts. There is a proposal for funding from this source. We already know that this supplement will not, however, be justified. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I recommend accepting this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u643	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15. Please speak on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u644	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on printing no. 1913, with a fixed allowance for some pensioners, etc., to say the least. One would like to say that, in fact, it is over and I wonder if it makes any sense to refer in substance to the provisions of this project, because my previous speaker, Mr Andzel, representing the Law and Justice, has actually applied for rejection at first reading - from the Seym arithmetic it is clear that this project is already in the garbage bin. Is this a good project? It is a good reason for discussing systemic pension solutions in Poland. Yes, the cost of this project is not small, but how is it that you have been profitable to give the famous 500+ families with children, and the seniors are no longer paying off? One could say that Poland is not a country for old people. But speaking of seniors, what are they supposed to do with this money, with this annual supplement of 500, 400 or 300 PLN? Will they eat it, burn it in the oven? Oh, no. They'll buy some goods for it, buy some goods, often in small neighborhood shops, drive their consumption, and then, much later, they'll go back to the state budget in the form of various taxes, excise duties. It's a shame all this was just thrown in a dumpster that doesn't count. But, taking this opportunity, because it is really a sad moment when you go out to discuss a project that you already know will not be there, I will try to devote this moment, because I have 3 minutes, I will not use them in their entirety, reflection on Polish parliamentarianism. [[It's a minute's silence.]] Well, a minute's silence would be appropriate. How is it that we here can make different proposals, make good proposals, we think, good proposals, and we live in such a system that someone can just say in advance: no, and everyone else here can shout and do nothing to us? I don't think that's what Polish parliamentarianism is supposed to look like. I don't think this is what the Polish Sejm is supposed to look like, where, in fact, several political parties, and not even parties, only a few leaders, who unfortunately are not here today, rule and shake our whole country's prayer, and individual residents, citizens basically have something to say once every four years when they think they're taking part in a democratic process. I am talking about the fact that it seems to them, for this simple reason, referring yet to a turbulent and hot debate about changing the ordination which was just now, that what a democratic process it is, when there is no equal chance when there are privileged entities benefiting from millions, tens or even hundreds of millions of zlotys, whether from party subsidies, whether from some national foundations, whether from the money of the Treasury companies, and they confront ordinary citizens who, without this money, have really no possibility to be in parliament. And it has indeed become a miracle that the Kukiz15 movement entered this parliament thanks to its civic support. So, ladies and gentlemen, your Marshal, I am sorry that I have left the substance of this project a little bit, but I hope that this reflection... I do not hope that this reflection or that my words will stimulate the reflection of anyone in this room outside of Parda and Brynus who represent the Poselski Kukiz Club15, but maybe someone will hear it someday and wonder if this is what parliamentarianism is supposed to look like in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u645	Thank you, sir. Mrs Monica Rosa made a written statement on behalf of the Modern Club. Mr Krystian Jarubas, club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u646	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, it is my pleasure to present my position on the parliamentary draft law on the fixed allowance for certain pensioners, pensioners and persons receiving pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions or teachers' compensation benefits, print No. 1913. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Members, my fellow Member of the PiS! Very sad. [[Law and Justice.]] As you see it, law and justice. It's very sad. It's very sad. This is a sad day for pensioners. [[I don't think so.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is how you treat seniors. [[Voice from the hall: I don't want to look in the eyes of pensioners.]] Let me start with a few statistics. Compared to 2016, butter prices increased by around 40% during this year, eggs by 17%, smoked by 12% , sugar by 10%. From month to month fuel is also expensive, about a dozen pennies per litre per month. What does that mean? This means that this is not the end of food increases. Ladies and gentlemen, it's gonna be an expensive Christmas, it's gonna be an expensive Christmas for you seniors. In fact, what these holidays are going to look like to you today depends on the Members of the PiS. Although they have already requested that this project be rejected at first reading, I hope that a moment of reflection will come and you will withdraw this proposal. Sad truth, ladies and gentlemen, but I must admit it. This is particularly sad, because thanks to seniors' voices, many members of the PiS got to the Sejm, and today it was the seniors of the PiS who thanked in particular. Of course, the word "thank you" should be taken into quotes. I'm going to skip the senior drug project, which didn't work out, although in the election campaign, this project had huge hopes. I will also ignore the question of cutting funds for the programme that we implemented in the previous term, I am talking about the "Senior - WIGOR" programme. I'm gonna focus on pension issues because that's crucial today. The ugly game of emotions and stories about reducing the retirement age, Mr President, was not supplemented by the fact of the pension. No one from the PiS said that pensions would be low, so low that many seniors would not decide to retire at the age of 60 or 65. They'll keep working. [[See how many conclusions there are.]] In the end, no one had predicted that the current government would give pensioners such a low value for money. 4.5 PLN is an insulting amount, so derogatory that many pensioners decided to send it back to the Prime Minister's office. It's a symbol of bad change. In addition, the increase of the pension age for farmers by 5 years by the PiS should be added. Ladies and gentlemen! I know that this bill we're proposing will not solve all the problems. It will not be a breakthrough, such as carrying out our pension project after 40 years of work or other good solutions that we propose, but it will be a good step - not for us politicians, but for our compatriots who have worked for Poland all their lives. Ladies and gentlemen! At this costume that runs in shops, seniors need backup. That is why we are calling for all the clubs to support this project for their sake. Thank you very much for supporting the other parliamentary clubs. If we do this, there is a chance today, ladies and gentlemen, that this project will be felt by the seniors, the most in need this year. Let them live this holiday with dignity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u647	Thank you very much, sir. Four people have entered the list of Members wishing to ask a question. Would any of you like to join the list? I can't see. That's why I'm shutting her down. Question time is 1 minute. We begin with Mrs Halina Szydłoko, club Law and Justice. Please, Madame, ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u648	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My question concerns the lack of consistency in the proposed legislation. In particular, the differences in the dates on which the pension authority is to accept the amount of the benefit in order to determine the recipient's entitlement to the permanent allowance and the amount of that allowance. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 (2) 1 is referred to on 30 June 2017 and in paragraph 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In addition, due to the wording of the Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The second project, which assumes payment of the money allowance in December of each year, raises doubts that the entitlement and amount of the allowance in each year will be determined by the amount of the benefit of 30 June 2017 or 29 February 2016. You're welcome. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to explain these contradictions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u649	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz club15 - another question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u650	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Requestor! I have a question about some kind of motivation or argument that Mr Andzel from Law and Justice was guided by, I think, by his proposal to reject this project at first reading. Namely, I suppose that this motivation may be so-called. No money. For several months we heard that the Polish budget is in excellent financial condition. In the end, it turned out that it didn't. But I have a question for you. Perhaps you will not answer them, because it is a question of political arrangements, but whether PSL will support the liquidation of political offices for which we spend PLN 0.5 billion a year - on these carriers of folders, on a young party fry who is being educated to later become old partiorcrats. Isn't it time to change that? Law and Justice offered to eliminate political offices, but their optics changed. So the question is, will you support this project, [[♪ The bell ♪]] a project that we have already submitted, which has so far not yet found any recognition in the honourable House? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: We will support.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u651	Thank you. I don't see Mr Grzegorz Furgi. So Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club, will ask the last question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u652	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Lounging is good for wine, lounging is not good for this law, which is why Mrs Szydleko has doubts about deadlines. If this project wasn't kept in the freezer, we could talk about it today. In times of the most difficult crisis, we could afford to give the pensioners special, one-off additional support, i.e. the value of a single amount. By preparing and leaving a good budget, you could give the pensioners support, it's about what happened last year. But what we want to say is that since it is so good, if the Polish Parliament can afford to give public television 1 billion PLN, then why should it not be able to afford for pensioners to receive allowances. 1 billion PLN for television is, [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's not here for the retirees. You have reduced the amount for medicines for seniors by PLN 50 million. You should have changed the program. Therefore, we ask you not to say or promise things that you do not realize. Yummy walks before the fall. You promise yourself an addition, and another project you don't want to refer to the committee for further work. Shame. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u653	Thank you, Member. I would like to speak with the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Marcin Zielenecki. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u654	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure and the honour to present the draft position of the Council of Ministers in relation to today's parliamentary bill, prepared by the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Allow me to present the most important parts of this position, also given the broadness of the opinion. In 2017, two important social security projects were implemented from the point of view of the Polish society. The first is to restore the retirement age to 60 years for women and 65 years for men. The second is an increase in the lowest State guaranteed benefits. However, the restoration of the freedom of choice for each insured person to take an individual decision at the time of exercising his right to a pension and the termination of his professional activity entails certain consequences. The increase in the number of pensions paid by the Social Security Office at the end of December 2017, linked to the introduction of a change in the retirement age, is estimated at around 331 thousand, assuming that it will immediately retire around 82% persons entitled to this benefit. In the following years, the impact of the proposals will gradually decrease: 148 000. in 2018, 90 000 in 2019, 92 000 in 2020 and 54 000 In 2021, the financial impact of restoring the retirement age is estimated at PLN 2182 million in 2017, PLN 10 448 million in 2018 and PLN 11 798 million in 2019. According to the forecasts made by the Social Insurance Institution when preparing the government's position on the draft law restoring the retirement age of the Social Insurance Fund's expenditure to the end of 2012, and the increase in the negative balance of the FUS will occur mainly in the first two to three years after the amendment was introduced. Then there will be a stabilisation and even a gradual decline in the negative balance due to the decrease in the retirement age. In 2017, an informed decision was also taken to increase the lowest pension benefits paid in the amount guaranteed by the State. In order to improve the living conditions of the poorest seniors from 1 March 2017, the lowest pensions, pensions for total incapacity for work and survivor's pensions, paid both in the general system and in the agricultural system, were increased from PLN 882,56 to PLN 1000, i.e. by PLN 117.44, i.e. by 13.3%, the social pension of PLN 741,35 up to the amount of PLN 840, i.e. by 13,3%, and pensions for partial incapacity for work of PLN 676,75 up to the amount of PLN 750, i.e. 10.8%. The lowest pensions therefore increased by 13,31% and not, as would be the case with the valorisation mechanism, by 0,44%, i.e. 3.88 PLN. The cost of valorisation of benefits with a guaranteed increase of at least PLN 10 with an increase in the lowest benefits in 2017 will be over PLN 2 billion. In addition, from 1 March 2018, pursuant to the Act of 29 September 2017, with the compensation from March 2017 to the amount of the lowest guaranteed benefits will be raised 105 thousand. acquired pensions to which the right has been acquired ex officio. In the case of an ex officio pension granted in exchange for a pension for total incapacity for work, the monthly increase in benefits will be PLN 107.44 gross, the compensation for a period of 12 months will be PLN 1289.28 as regards pensions, while in the case of a replacement from a pension for a partial incapacity for work, the amount of PLN 63,25 and PLN 759 is included. From 1 March 2018, all benefits will be increased as part of the valorisation rate currently projected at 102.7%. This means that the lowest pension benefits will increase from PLN 1000 to PLN 1027, i.e. by PLN 27, the average pension will increase from PLN 2163.59 to PLN 2222.01, i.e. by PLN 58,42, the average disability pension will increase from PLN 1611 to almost PLN 1655, i.e. by over PLN 43.51, the average family pension will increase from PLN 1888.68 to PLN 1939.67, i.e. Approximately PLN 50.99. Total cost of valorisation of pension benefits and other benefits of the general, agricultural and uniform system at 102.7% is estimated at about PLN 5400 million. This is the result in 10 months from March to December. Any further idea resulting in an increase in expenditure and an increase in the burden on the state budget should be preceded by a detailed analysis taking into account the state finances and the potential of the state budget and the expectations of society as a whole. First of all, the annual payment of allowances requires an estimate of the expected cost not only in one year but in the long term of at least 10 years. The impact of the proposed solution on the situation of public finances and the state of the state budget, on the development of the economy and on pension farms should also be assessed. Additional support for the poorest social groups certainly deserves a positive assessment, but it is now too early to decide on a positive consideration of the proposal for permanent cash additions. The granting of fixed annual allowances to a wide group of recipients is too heavy a burden on the state budget. The proposed different dates for the payment of allowances for each eligible group or the unclear terms and conditions for granting and paying them raise doubts. The bill needs to be refined both logically and legislatively. It should be noted that the financial plans of the FUS and the pension fund for 2017 and 2018 do not take into account the payment of these benefits and do not provide for an increased grant from the State budget for this purpose. There is also a shortage of funds in the pension expenditure of uniformed services and in the Labour Fund plan. Nor does the State budget provide for increased expenditure on benefits for combatants and war and military invalids and those entitled to social pensions. Thanks to stable economic policy, the state can afford to introduce pro-social programmes and carry out activities that serve a large part of Polish families, eliminating poverty and creating a chance for a decent life. The proposed solution contained in the parliamentary project does not take into account the current social security fund and the budget of the State of increased expenditure on socially important solutions introduced in 2017. The restoration of the retirement age to 60 for women and 65 for men has become a fact and the cost of significantly increasing the lowest benefits paid in the State guaranteed amount increases the expenditure of the FUS and the state budget in the following years. The State budget policy must be implemented using financial constraints under national and Union law, including the need to apply the upper limit of State budget expenditure established on the basis of a stabilising expenditure rule, as well as respect for the reference values for the nominal deficit and government debt, and implementation of the so-called. the medium-term budgetary objective. In connection with the functioning of the legal system, the expenditure rule is not free to shape expenditure of the public finance sector. Currently, there is no financial possibility to introduce the proposed solution contained in the parliamentary bill. Conclusion. In view of the above, the Council of Ministers negatively assesses the parliamentary draft law on the fixed allowance for certain pensioners, pensioners and persons receiving pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions and teacher compensation benefits. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u655	Thank you. A representative of the applicants has asked to be put to the floor. So I ask you, sir, to speak. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u656	Thank you very much. High Izbo! I spoke in the previous speech when we talked about the election, that we had to tell the truth, that today lies will still be in the courtroom. This project is about checking, I'm saying today: I'm checking whether you're telling the truth or not. I'm checking right now, and you're not telling the truth. Why? Because every week, at least every week, I hear you want to pay 500+ to the pensioners. This year, for six months, you were supposed to pay out, that year when we submitted such a project, it was the same argument, it was the same justification - there is no possibility, no money, no resources, no budget, etc. thousands of quotas were exchanged. For God's sake, what do you care if it's 10 or 15%? How does he get 850 zlotys to survive? What does such a prospect mean to him - in a year or a year and a half? Today we need money. If you want, you can always, but you can't report it to a pensioner, you can't report it to another marriage club. Today I hear, the ZUS says that a year for computerization, for the preparation of the program is not enough for them, and an example of last year: 15 January the Sejm adopts your bill on additives. It's nothing new, it was used, Minister. [[Ready.]] It was all prepared, but what a pace it was, January 15th. There was also no money in the budget, it wasn't written anywhere, I didn't hear it. When we proposed, as the Polish People's Party, this project was 400 PLN then, the highest surcharge, absolutely impossible to do, it is impossible and the same arguments - system, lack of money, etc. January 15 - the bill, February 15 - announced, March 1 retired people get money. May I? Yes, you can. What's that? The motto is that you have to tell the truth. And the question is: How to live? How to live, Minister, for PLN 850? We can make a promise here and say things like that. On the other hand, I would like to thank you for the support of everyone who is speaking here. And that's true because we spend money left and right. The Member is right about the political offices. But let's look at the vice ministers. There's a world record beaten. There have never been so many vice-ministers in 27 years. I can't tell you the amount anymore, but the stats are already working on what this growth is. Is it money? It's money. Not much. Minister, I've come to the conclusion why we're just discussing this today. I didn't say in the first part why it's a delay. Because last week, the money was still in the FUS. Here we have removed PLN 4 billion and PLN 0.5 billion from the CRUS. The High House has taken it down. [[Yes, sir.]] And if it were a week earlier, two weeks earlier discussed, then the Minister wouldn't say he didn't have any money because they were there. You waited on the project to take the money off and tell me there's no money today. You took the money - 4 billion from the Social Insurance Fund. Where'd they go? They went to mining. [[On TV.]] And on TV they went, and on other things. That's not enough. You even took your meds. I don't remember the amount anymore, but you took it. You guys are so bragging you're paying off. Even that minimum amount was not passed on to the needy, you just took it away because there were needs. As regards raising the retirement age, especially for farmers... There's no envoy. Oh, there's no MP. It is a pity that he did not mention one farmer or farmer who benefited from it - that she suffered from having to work longer, because the retirement age was raised by us. We postponed this decision until the end of this year. She was just put down. We were able to rise above divisions. And today, with that kind of power and power, you can't lower your retirement age. Okay, let's cut it down. If you say it's wrong, lower it. It's one decision and one move. But when it comes to OFE, let's also tell ourselves the truth. Why are these pensions so low today? They'll be even lower because the system that was introduced was a bad system. The Polish People's Party has always said that OFE is stealing - and it's a terrible stealing from the beginning. And we didn't approve. And when was that? It was September 22, 1998 in this room. Your Members voted in favour of introducing OFE. And today you say someone's taking the money. Well, if they're taking out pension funds abroad, isn't that a bad thing? When the money went into our budget, it was wrong. But whoever voted may be one of your fellow Members, it is also worth knowing. That's what we rarely talk about. Then, 22 September 1998. You want to know? Black Richard. Do you know a guy like that? I think you do. Bielan Adam, Cymanski Tadzik, Member, voted in favour of introducing OFE. Jurgel Krzysztof, famous. Kaminski Mariusz, Polakzek Jerzy, Tchórzewski Krzysztof. Mrs Tomaszewska Eve also voted in favour of this. And today we have a grudge against OFE. And who introduced OFE? Excuse me, who introduced OFE? So let's tell the truth, the truth, and let's not rock people. But thank you all very much for your support. I think the retirees are gonna thank you for that. I'll tell you one more thing. For you are not important retirees, for if they were important, you would say today: yes, you must give. You wait until next year, next fall. And you'll fly to the retirees: here you go, you gave, we give you. Why? That's because next year there's gonna be an election. Cynism to the end. You're saying we're playing a populist game here. No, we're checking your credibility and reliability today, and tomorrow we'll check it out in the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u657	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u658	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the first reading of the parliamentary bill on the fixed cash allowance for certain pensioners, pensioners and persons receiving pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions or teacher compensation benefits. 1. The project introduces a one-off annual allowance for pensions paid in December. 2. The amount of the allowance is 500 PLN for the recipients of benefits below 1 000 PLN. zł, 400 zł for receivers from 1 thousand. Up to 1.5,000. PLN and PLN 300 for receiving from 1 thousand. Up to 2,000. zł. 3. The benefits will be granted not only to pensioners from the Social Security Office but also to pensions of farmers, uniformed services and pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions, teachers' compensation benefits, veterans' pensions, war and military disabilities and social pensions. 4. The allowances will be issued out of office. The amount of the allowance will be free of income tax and will not form the basis for the assessment of health insurance contributions. This amount shall not be deducted or enforced. The allowance and the cost of handling it will be financed by the State budget. 5. The Act would enter into force as early as November and allow the payment of allowances in December 2017. 6. ZUS and KRUS claim that the law is inaccurate, inconsistent, and that it is not possible to implement the payment of benefits in December due to the need to adapt ICT systems. Farmers will benefit most from this solution because in this group benefits are the lowest and agricultural pension, although low, is still financed by more than 90% of the taxes of other citizens, because farmers pay very low contributions. So in practice, it is the transfer of even more money to farmers and entrepreneurs. Aid measures for the poor should be implemented through a social assistance system rather than a pension scheme. The pension system is becoming increasingly detached from its basics. We do not have pensions based on deferred contributions, but pensions based on a political calendar. Separation of the value of pensions from work and contributions is a very bad solution, creating bad incentives for society - early deactivation or working in the grey area - because pensioners will still get a number of different allowances for their low-developed pension. Meanwhile, we need to motivate people to work longer. Additional fixed expenditure may not be introduced and planned to be covered by one-off revenue, i.e. NBP's profit. It is also interesting how the authors of the project learned about the planned budget surpluses, since budgets - and for this year, and for a few more - are planned with a deficit, implementation of this law in the year is not possible. ZUS, KRUS and the Ministry of Finance must have time to adapt to the new rules and transfer funds to payout.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u659	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Circle of Members of the Free and Solidarnia, I present my position on the parliamentary draft law on the fixed allowance for certain pensioners, pensioners and persons receiving a pre-retirement benefit, a pre-retirement allowance, a bridge pension or a teacher's compensation. The allowance to be determined by the projectors under this Act will be granted to those entitled, whose benefits will not exceed 2 000. PLN per month. At this point it should be stressed that the amount of the benefit will consist of a total care allowance, a supplement for complete orphans and other allowances or other cash benefits that are paid by pension authorities. The draft law provides for three ranges on which the amount of the allowance will depend. The persons who are entitled and the sum of their benefits or benefits shall not exceed 1 000. zł, they would receive an allowance of 500 zł. If the benefit - or the sum of the benefits - falls within the range of 1 000. PLN up to PLN 1.5, the entitled person would receive an allowance of PLN 400. The beneficiaries of benefits or the sum of their benefits shall be in the range of 1,5 000. PLN to 2,000. zł, they would get an additional 300 zł. I don't think that's a good solution. Apart from the issue of the progression of the allowance, which is not fair, I have the impression that the project has been presented because it is good to show concern for citizens, especially if we could spend money without having to bear responsibility for the budget. Let us remember that this year the government has significantly increased the level of the lowest pensions and pensions. I know that everyone would like to receive more and I hope that, if only possible, these amounts will be raised again. I would like to point out that this is a particularly important topic for me, because it concerns older people, to a large extent, in need of additional attention from the state. But I do know that budget isn't a bottomless sack. I believe that if we consider what to do with possible financial surpluses, we should devote more help to those who are actually in the most difficult material situation, and in addition to those who deserved Poland the most. Such a group of people are undoubtedly, at least in a large part, persons with the status of a person being oppressed, and we should think of such persons first. Although the idea of raising benefits to citizens is right in my opinion, I consider this particular project to be a populist play. About Free and Solidarni will not support the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u660	A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Act on personal income tax (Print No. 1914). Mr Blazej Parda will present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u661	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is indeed a law amending the Personal Income Tax Act. A very important minor change, very important. Maybe I'll put forward the position of NSZZ.Solidarity first. Then I'll explain more or less what's going on. For many years NSZZ has been calling for a frostbite in the income tax on individuals of those amounts, indicating that the freezing so far is unjustified and leads to growth the effective rate of taxation of labour income. Ladies and gentlemen! The entrepreneur, how he conducts business, can throw practically all expenses into the costs, i.e. purchase of a car, purchase of fuel, OC, AC, lease. There's no problem with that. Of course, the entrepreneur pays a lower tax by throwing it into the cost. But if someone is an employee and there are over 14 million employees on employment contracts, they can't do that. That is why such a relief was invented for commuting to work, i.e. such costs of obtaining income. The problem is that the relief from commuting to work for these 14 million people has been frozen for 10 years. During this period, inflation, i.e. such an eating of the value of money, was like this: in 2007 - 2.5% , 2008 - 4.2%, still frozen, 2009 - 3.5% , frozen amount, this reduction does not change, 2010 - 2,5%, 2011 - 4,3%. In total for 10 years it is over 22%. He's lost so much money in that time. That means $1,000. PLN 2007 today is worth less than PLN 800. During this time, during these 10 years - everyone working perfectly knows this - various types of fees were raised - gas, water, garbage, electricity - but there were also raised charges such as tickets for public transport, PKP tickets, PKS tickets, and recently even giant price spikes of OC and AC, car insurance. An employee has no right to include these increases in the costs. He's waiting because a small amount that he could deduct from his tax due to the fact that he's paying the cost of commuting to work, and he's paying the cost to get to work, because he has to... Few people are so comfortable to go to work, to have it under their noses, unless they are Members who live in a hotel. Then they have no problem with it. [[Applause]] But the employee doesn't have the opportunity and bears the cost. Mostly it's either that or... It's changed over the years, too. Over the 10 years it has turned out that more and more people have to drive because they work in some places and live in others, and the amount and relief for commuting to work has not changed, I repeat, for 10 years. At that time, money lost 22% of its value. It's sad, but unfortunately a similar situation is with a free amount. She's also frozen, except she's been for eight years, and this one's been for 10. Unfortunately, here is the Great Coalition of Law and Justice and the Civic Platform, because nothing has been done on these issues. Unfortunately, what is scary, at that time all Poles lost about PLN 4 billion from their wallets, and this money went to the rulers, at their disposal. I think the Poles would have spent this money better than the authorities. Finally, after 10 years, we recommend that the moment comes to unfreeze it and set it at the level at which it should be, i.e. to raise it by 22%, which will cause about 500 million PLN to go to the wallets of Poles this year. There's another question. I think a lot of people don't even know that there's such a relief. The more powerful the rulers are here, because people, without knowing that there is this relief, will not demand it, will not press to make a change. The tax system is so complex and complicated that many people do not understand it. But, of course, he is in the hands of the rulers, and therefore the rulers are not making any changes here, the more they are not updating this amount, because why, if no one is asking for it, if few people know at all. As Kukiz,15 we call for all those who work hard, not only those who have a company, but also those who work for a contract of employment, to be honest, because unfortunately these people often also work for salaries of many free eaters who often sit in this House and in many other institutions. [[Are you talking about yourself?]] It's a shame that this House in white gloves has been doing this to people who work in grey for 10 years. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u662	The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would ask Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski, the Law and Justice Club, to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u663	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! If you think there are so many freeloaders in this House, then perhaps you should not be paid. Then we'd definitely save money. And he's not, is he? Only his fellow MPs. Good. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposed change implies that the ratio to the inflation rate of the amount of employee income costs, which, according to the applicants, remains unchanged for a long time. However, the applicants did not take into account that the conditions and the whole working environment and wages have changed since 2007. [[I'd like you to file a motion for rejection.]] The lowest wage is changing, which is growing almost from year to year. Our government is taking a number of measures regarding the tax system. Except we're trying to treat the tax system holistically, holistically, not like the Kukiz state15 - you're picking out a fragment here, here some fragment of the tax system, what can later sell nicely somewhere on social media, etc. You're taking this a little selectively, and we're taking a series of actions to, above all, seal the tax system and make positive tax changes. Besides, this can be seen after increasing budget implications after VAT sealing and many other proposals that we implement, we put life into practice. As a matter of principle, we are opposed to playing with such individual elements of the tax system, i.e. - as I said - picking out a small element and changing it, because it sells well. Of course, it is easy to make such proposals if you are not responsible for the state's finances. We take the state budget and the state finances very seriously... [[Since when?]] Ever since we've been in charge for two years. ...which is why we will certainly make some proposal to the system or changes in the tax system that will benefit taxpayers, while we will try to do so systematically, holistically, after a thorough analysis of the indicators and the whole tax system. Therefore, on the basis of Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, acting on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I request that the first reading of the parliamentary bill amending the Act on personal income tax be rejected in full, print No 1914. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[I finally hear it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u664	Please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Konwiński, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u665	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With this VAT sealing, it can be different, because we know that entrepreneurs get VAT refunds lately. If this is so good, why is this increased VAT rate still in force? Why did you extend the increased VAT rate? Don't be surprised that such projects appear in parliament if you present such beautiful slides. Minister Morawiecki presents beautiful slides, how wonderful the economy looks like, what a large budget surplus it is. Such projects will, of course, appear. It's easy to spend money, but you still have to make money so you can spend money. As I understand it, the intention of the applicants is to de facto reduce the tax by raising the cost of income, because it reduces the tax for those who work, who pay taxes. As a result, there is a distribution for this which you are running. We, if it were to continue to proceed on this bill, but as we can see, will probably not be, because there is a motion for rejection at first reading, we would have tabled an amendment to it that would compensate for local governments. You were talking about this trenching in the tax system, only the facts are also such that for the last two years of the Civic Platform government we have had deflation in Poland, and now we have inflation, so for the same amount we can buy definitely, definitely less. The price of basic articles has increased, as has already been mentioned. Mythical butter is more expensive today than those famous octopus you pointed out to us for several months before the election. Gas charges have increased, water charges have increased, and you're about to introduce excise duties on e-cigarettes, so you're actually raising taxes in different places. This is a project that is a gesture to those who are active, to those who work, to those who pay taxes, such as taxes. Pay 500+. We should use all kinds of incentives to make people active to work, because at the moment in many places Poland simply lacks hands to work, but such forward-looking thinking does not exist in you. You still want to raise your pension contributions drastically, which consequently means really transferring responsibility to the next government for paying quite large pensions. Today, in the coming months, in the coming years, you will have to pay very high pensions, but then no one will remember about PiS. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I am in favour of further work on the bill presented. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u666	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u667	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! If we had JOWs, then Mr Stawiarski, who lives not far from my hometown, the Bank, the Minds, would not have made such a request in life to reject this project at first reading, in life, because in Namysłów very many people simply lose their money because these costs of obtaining income have not been valued for 10 years. In 10 years, the purchasing power of Polish money, gold, dropped by 1/5, but I no longer go into details. In fact, I'm electrocuted. Once again, I'm going out to present a position on a project that we already know is in a dumpster. Mr Stawiarski, actually not Mr Stawiarski, just the board of the club Law and Justice - I do not know who specifically told him to say it, I stress: he told him to say it, not authorize it, but tell him to say it - he threw it in the garbage. That's what he threw away. to the rubbish of all these workers, not only from Namysłow, but from all over Opole, from all over Poland, all the people working, who build our homeland with their hard work, who make us work in this parliament. Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been mentioned here that Law and Justice have a holistic approach to taxes, that you increase the amount free, sorry, Freudian mistake that you increase the minimum wage. A few facts, because I've seen what it looks like, what's the benefit of raising that minimum amount, that salary. At the amount of PLN 1800, the employee receives PLN 1320 per hand and the employer's costs are PLN 2126. If the government, and we know that it was so good, raised the amount of the minimum wage by PLN 200, say, to 2000 because today it amounts to that amount, then the employee earns PLN 1459 per hand and the employer bears the cost of PLN 2412. So the employee, as a result of an increase in the tax-free amount by PLN 200, gets by PLN 139 more remuneration, while the employer bears a cost of almost PLN 300. 300 minus 139, almost 300 minus almost 140 gives us about 160 PLN. The question is, where did the money go? This is your holistic approach to wages and taxes: raise the minimum wage because you take more than half of this increase to the state budget. Bravo, this is indeed a commendable approach, propagandists are wailing with delight. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, this is a sad principle. In the case of a project, so-called. 500+ sleep programme Rafał Wójcikowski from this platform was thundering. His most important, in my opinion, the most important, long, flaming speech, when he scolded you for wanting to give away this money instead of actually, really stimulating and working, and this pronatistic sphere, or birth. And then he talked about the fact that the alternative, better used in the world, applied in Israel, is a negative income tax. The kind of tax that rewards those who work and want to build their homeland by having a large number of children, but you rejected it. So since, with such a large project, you have rejected such pro-national thinking, and not pro-budget thinking, to take as much as possible and make the citizens addictive, I am not surprised that today our project, with this pro-Citizen attitude, is directed to the trash, because it does not meet one basic condition: it does not tighten the leash on the citizen's neck yet, it does not make the citizen more dependent on you, on the party of power, regardless of what party it is. This is a big problem for you. If we offered to tighten this leash even more so that the citizen would go on an even shorter leash, you might think it might be worth it in this direction. If we offer a little more freedom to keep a little more cash in the pockets of citizens, it is unacceptable for you, and Mr Stawiarski says: to the trash can. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u668	Thank you. Mr Paweł Pudłowski, Modern Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u669	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The project is good, the project allows to increase the cost of obtaining revenue and to leave PLN 520 million in the pocket of citizens. You're not doing this. You don't give money to seniors, you change the three divisions of power by introducing politics to the Supreme Court, to the KRS. This is a sad sitting at all. Yesterday we sat until half past three. Today we also talked about local governments, about how you want to own them. You're trying to get one party to decide everything. In my opinion, the medicine you're using is more dangerous than the disease you're trying to cure. I know you know this, but you're stuck in this amok, and we can't control it. We know what seym arithmetic is like. You're gonna vote this country out by rejecting a project that's good. I agree with my previous speaker from the Civic Platform, who wanted to propose an amendment so that half of what would lose the local government, or 260 million PLN, would somehow be compensated, because this is also some way. We give more and more jobs to local governments without giving them any more pay. We expect quality, people expect quality, and there's no money for it. There was one more item at this session of the Sejm. It's the rules. You're changing the rules, and we won't be able to speak in a moment. It is not a pleasure to make formal requests to adjourn, to request a recess, but it is the only way to draw attention to the important things you wish to keep quiet about. You shut our mouths, we won't talk. But the less we speak, ladies and gentlemen, the less debate on important matters will be here, the louder the street voice will sound. You'll hear that voice, but then it'll be too late. You will reflect that you have gone too far that this surveillance, that the use of the PRL encore did not really make sense, but it will be too late. As a result, we'll all lose four years. Instead of building a strong society based on dialogue, based on cooperation, you create a pendulum that pushes us back and forth. That's too bad, 'cause you had a huge chance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u670	Thank you very much. Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u671	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the draft law amending the Act on personal income tax, print No 1914. The draft submitted proposes that paragraph be amended. Article 2 22 Act of July 1991 on personal income tax. The amendment is simple, by increasing the limit of the flat-rate costs of obtaining income from the employment relationship, the business relationship, the cooperative employment relationship, i.e. for workers. The so-called "change of name" has been amended. cumulative inflation rate for these 10 years from 2007 to 2016. In my club's opinion, the project is absolutely justified. It does value the existing limits by the value of inflation over a period of 10 years, starting in 2007, i.e. the year in which no such valorisation was already available. We also generally recognise that inflation is a good measure in terms of realising these labour costs. Furthermore, it should be stressed that we are strengthening the workers who provide work with practically no additional costs for employers, which is also important. The proposers estimated that the loss of revenue of the state budget and local government units would amount to about PLN 520 million per year, while the projectors do not propose here a compensation mechanism for the revenue lost by the local government. This fact, unfortunately, must be regarded as a big oversight, so that it is She called it because the rulers wouldn't notice it, and they wouldn't remember it. It is also a pity, and this is perhaps the second flaw of the project, which may still be possible to remove if it were to be further worked out, that the project does not introduce a permanent mechanism that would regulate these issues, so it would valorise the costs of obtaining revenue in tax. You are only referring to this matter to the Minister of Finance, and what is the effect of this, we have all seen just now, there is nothing left to count on here. To be honest, this bitterness has also come to me today, because the project is good, worth the debate, does not impose any huge burdens on the state budget. This is really, it seems, a little something, and it means so much to those who work. Yet, the suggestion from the rulers was clear. The opposition is not allowed, we do not have the right to submit any projects at all, because it is only suitable for rejection at first reading. To be honest, it is my bitterness that concerns a bit of demagogy in the statement made by the applicant. To be honest, in part, I understand that because a young man doesn't necessarily remember what happened 10 or 8 years ago, but I remember because I lived through it, I was partly responsible for this budget, for the finances of this country. I have experienced this and, my dears, the crisis has not only experienced us, the financial crisis has been all over the world. I sometimes don't understand how we managed to do it, that we didn't fall below the line, but actually the excessive deficit rule was heavily guarded, and the spending rule wasn't loose as it is now, but it was strictly respected. And we made it through it on the plus side. And today, such gifts that you could have done this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ten or eight years ago, I'm gonna say a little bit of me, not hiding, making me bitter. If it wasn't for this rejection, of course we're in favour of working on a project on the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u672	Thank you, Member. Anyone else want to sign up for the questioning list? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. Question time - 1 minute. Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz club15 begins. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u673	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Requestor! The question is, who did they really have the most, or they would touch these changes. Would it benefit the rich, wealthy, or would it benefit the people who have to make ends meet each day of the month, often long before the end of the month, to wonder what to live for and what to put in the pot for? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u674	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u675	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law provides for the valorisation of labour costs for the cumulative value of inflation for the period 2008 to 2016. It is a good project and I am surprised that the Law and Justice reject it. I wanted to ask, in connection with this project, whether he had received the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office and the Legislative Office and what these opinions were. I also wanted to know how the applicants calculated that the lack of value-added of the PIT parameter since 2007 would be PLN 4 billion. If the state budget is in such excellent condition, then why aren't we proceeding over this bill, Minister? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why are you still lying to Poles? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u676	Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u677	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Member of the applicant. I'm not an economist, I'm a philologist, so please be understanding. Mr President, please tell me, would these 0.5 billion PLN which Poles, employees, would have saved on this bill, these Poles would have buried somewhere in the backyard, torn up, burned in the oven? Or would they go to the shops, buy something, pay excise duty, VAT, give money to entrepreneurs who pay ZUS? What would happen to the money? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u678	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u679	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In fact, the PiS did not give higher minimum wage to employees, it was the entrepreneurs who incurred these costs. And so we tried to make such a balance so that during the crisis it would be agreed between employers and employees. And you didn't give it because in the budget it was the entrepreneurs who paid for it. The State promised a free amount of 8 thousand. They didn't. You promise me what the campaign is and if there's no campaign, you don't promise. The tax-free amount will bow down again, and the cost of obtaining revenue is worth valorizing, because this is an element on the side of employees giving some compensation for their activity. It's not just about paying from the state budget. Why don't you want that? That's because it wouldn't affect the budget. [[♪ The bell ♪]] $100 million that you spend on propaganda. So in this case, maybe the applicant will tell me where the PiS care has gone when there is no campaign. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u680	Thank you. Please... Ah, sorry, there's still Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club. You're welcome, sir. I think it's just tired. I'm sorry. [[We're all here, Marshal, tired.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u681	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, I am not surprised that the PiS does not wish to proceed with this bill, does not want to increase the cost of obtaining. The explanation is very simple: this cannot be given. 500+ you can give, you can say you did something, and part of society even believes that it's government money. In this case you can't give anything, you can't promise that you can, you can't go and say like you: listen, I give you 500+, and that's why the PiS doesn't want to, and that's actually rational. Employees do not have the possibility to deduct from income the costs they bear, for example. for commuting to work, for education, for their professional activity, therefore such deduction is most appropriate, as well as updating the inflation rate. I would like to ask the Members of the applicants why they did not go one step further, because, however, 100 PLN per month, I suspect, in certain places does not even cover the cost of the monthly ticket. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why didn't you go a step further to make it real? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u682	Thank you very much to Mirosław Suchoni of Modern. That was the last question. I would therefore like to ask for an answer from the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Leszek Skiba. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u683	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no formal document containing the position of the government in the sense that this position has not been adopted. We're in the middle of a legislative process. The draft position prepared by the Ministry of Finance was delivered by letter of 22 November to the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers. As far as this project is concerned, I can say that, in fact, the method presented by the applicant regarding the increase in the cost of income is a worse option than the method already practiced by the High House in October, i.e. the increase in the amount of free income. I would like to remind you that a month ago the High Chamber - the Sejm - adopted a law which included raising the amount of freedom in such a way that it was already 8,000. zł, and this is the implementation of the plan announced by the Prime Minister, which assumes an increase in the amount free so that up to the amount of 8 thousand. PLN there was no need to pay tax at all, i.e. the amount free was increased. At the same time, the second threshold allowing to benefit from the increased free amount was shifted, i.e. increased from 11 000. PLN up to 13 thousand. zł. The total budgetary effect of this change: the increase in the amount of free money that the State adopted a month ago is PLN 650 million, which is more than expected by this project. Thus, a month ago, what was mentioned here was done by other methods, but in fact what the applicant intended to do was done. Therefore, for this reason, the government's position is negative. There is no need to change, you can say, in another part. The law and justice club's representative pointed out just a certain kind of non-systemicity of the solution that the revenue cost mechanism had been frozen since 2009. And these changes, you can say, are not optimal for citizens to benefit from the changes in the tax system as best as possible. At the same time, it is worth paying attention to another negative element of this project. Therefore, if the costs of obtaining revenue from the current amount of PLN 1335 up to PLN 1588 are raised, we will actually get different elements, different benefits for different groups of taxpayers. Taxpayers using the first scale would receive an additional 46 PLN and taxpayers using the second scale would receive 81 PLN, i.e. the solution proposed by the applicants is that we give more and we give less to the poorer. The question therefore arises as to whether it should be a feature of the tax system for rich people to benefit from tax preferences on a larger scale than for poor people. Therefore, what the High House did a month ago - an increase in the amount free to 8,000. zł, which costs the state budget and the whole public sector 650 million PLN, so more than this project - is a better solution and therefore the draft position of the government assumes a negative relationship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u684	Thank you very much. Would the applicant's representative like to speak? Please, Mr Blażej Parda as the representative of the applicants.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u685	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A few questions have been asked, and I'll try to answer them properly. First of all, this project is practically zero-cost. Why? That is why, Minister, the state has already made 4 billion without raising that amount. We're talking about giving the $500 million back. Where's the money then? Take advantage of those 4 billion that were not given back to citizens at a time when, for example, There was a crisis. As regards the amendment on self-government, we will be happy to make such an amendment at the next stage if this project is not rejected, which I doubt. But what the hell, throw away all you want, we're still gonna put together another project. We're gonna race like this, and maybe it'll help a little more people find out and be more aware of what it's all about and how the state's trying to get a little bit more into it. Not everything is so clear to people. If the system is complicated, as I said before, people are unconscious. Thanks to your rejection, more people will know about it and eventually I may not be coming here, but Poles will come here. As far as the permanent mechanism is concerned, of course We also proposed that it be on the ministry's side. We can, of course, include him in the next project, okay, we can do this, but we have proposed, we have handed the minister's hand over here to go out with his initiative and he has proposed a mechanism that will be the most appropriate for them as well. Would those 500 million Poles bury or burn? Definitely not. I think that they buried it and burned it more to suit Mrs Skowronska's question, where this concern of PiS from the campaign took place. Maybe it's buried, burned. But this 500 million would definitely be reasonable to spend on these most necessary elements. We're talking about people who work hard under an employment contract, and they often don't have much of it. Their remuneration is very low and although they would have these tens of PLN per year, for many it will be a significant amount. I don't think we can shut up about this being a minor change. I understand that the Ministry and Law and Justice have tools to change the tax system, and they have people. We propose minor changes, but where they are most needed and where they are most important at the moment. The tax system needs to be changed, of course, but this is the song of the future, so as far as we can, we are trying to compensate for some injustices that have been out there for how many years. Why didn't we raise that amount any more? Of course, there are people who spend 400, 300 PLN, 200, some 500 PLN on commuting to work. There are more and more such people because they use their own means of transport, a car. OC is getting higher, fuel isn't cheap either, cars are the same, repairs are the same and these real costs are really very high. We didn't just do this because we're aware that it would take a lot of billions of zlotys, and we just modestly wanted to take a step towards the ministry first, so that it would see that we really have sincere intentions to raise it as much as at this level as the taxpayers lost at this point. Indeed, this amount should be much, much larger. The amount of free money has been raised, Minister, but it is for a very narrow group of people, and for all others, millions of people, it has been reduced. If we have inflation at the level, then everyone who doesn't make more than 13,000... Question. Who among you makes less than 13,000 dollars? Evil? Who among those who may be watching this debate makes less than 13,000 dollars? £ per year? I don't say a month, a year. There's not a lot of people like that. And I think if someone makes 14,000. zł, it's not really a super-rich guy unless, according to some new standards of the ministry, and these people lose and will lose each year, because the amount free is not updated either, and by this few percent at any time they earn less. I don't know if that's it, but I think it's more or less. If I missed someone, then... I can't see. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u686	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. A motion for rejection at first reading of the bill was made in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: the Report of the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the Act on Nature Conservation and the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments (prints No. 1977 and 2019). I ask Mr Dariusz Piontkowski to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u687	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission today took note of the draft law. There was no more serious doubt. There were only minor editorial and legislative changes. The Commission, which is important, has unanimously supported the draft law over political divisions, recognising that it is worth introducing it as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u688	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Dariusz Piontkowski to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u689	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This law allows better protection of trees, shrubs in historical areas, on properties in which there are monuments. So far, trees in most parts of Poland are protected differently because they are subject to the Nature Conservation Act and there the mayor or the city president makes a decision, or officials on his behalf, whether the trees in question, shrubs can be cut out and then imposed a charge. In the case of real estate on which historical buildings are located, such permits are issued by a voivodship monument conservator, but they are issued under the Act on the Protection of Monuments, and there are missing elements that would allow to draw consequences for owners of these properties, who without the consent of the voivodship monument conservator would like such trees or shrubs to cut out. This is where the idea came up to treat greenery growing in areas where there are historical objects, as well as all other areas, so to base on the Nature Conservation Act, and the difference will be that it is a voivodeship conservationist of monuments, not a self-government representative, who will issue consent and possibly charge penalties or fees for cutting out this vegetation, or this wildly growing one, or in some way shaped by man. This is actually the essential part of the bill. It seems that this will help to protect greenery in historical areas better. Thus practically representatives of all clubs supported the principles of this law. The Law and Justice Club, of course, recommends that the High House adopt this law. Since there has been some legislative doubt on the part of the Sejm legislators, we are proposing to finally adopt this amendment on the obligation for some time of the regulation which is related to this law. The draft amendment will be submitted to you by the marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u690	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Civic Platform, Mr Michał Stasiński made his statement in writing. In that case, Mr Kukiz.15, Mr Józef Brynkus. Please state your position on behalf of this club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u691	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I present my position on the Act amending the Act on Nature Conservation and the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments. This law regulates the removal of trees and shrubs from historic properties. The removal of the tree from such property will require the consent of the provincial monument conservator. This law also sets out the conditions when you will be able to remove a tree from a property that is an antique, without having to pay a fee. This case is the restoration and care of trees growing in the property's historic status. This is a good bill, because it will make it impossible to cut trees in places like this. A cemetery in Lanckoron. The problem is, however, that often voivodship conservationists of monuments are incompetent people, and then there can actually be abuse. In the case of Lanckorona, the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage worked for happiness. The Kukiz Club15 is in favour of the bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u692	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Ewa Lieder made her speech on behalf of the Modern Club in writing. Similarly, the written speech was made on behalf of the Polish People's Party by Mrs Urszula Pasławska. She also made a written statement on behalf of Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan's Free and Solidarni Circle. There are two persons on the list of Members to be asked. Would any of you like to sign in? I can't see. I'm closing the list. Time - 1 minute. You are beginning Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club. I'm asking you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u693	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a good thing you're improving your crippled law in this respect, but there's no more trees cut out. I'm talking especially about the Bialowieza Forest. In the following article. 86 in the paragraph. 1 of the Nature Conservation Act, point 1a includes the exemption that no fees are charged for the removal of trees or shrubs if the removal is related to the renewal and care of trees growing on the property or part of it entered in the register of monuments. I would like the Members of the applicant to clarify this issue because it is vague. The media reports that the logging of trees in the Białowieża Forest is already stopped. Should it have been brought to a state when a few million trees disappeared in the wilderness? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Did we need financial penalties from the Court of Justice of the European Union?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u694	Thank you, Member. Is Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club? I can't see. I therefore ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Mr Andrzej Szweda-Lewandowski, for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u695	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to our position on the draft law which amends the rules on the removal of trees and shrubs, it is positive because the provisions proposed in this law will lead to the codification, consistency and ordering of the rules. Trees that will be removed from the land listed in the heritage register will be subject to the same assessment criteria as trees that grow in other areas and will also be removed from there. The provision cited by the Member has been in the Act for a long time, and in the proposed amendment it also applies to areas under the jurisdiction of the monument conservator, and it is now in force for the rest of the area. So that here it is a complete codification of rules, their consistency and ordering. As I said, the ministry's position is positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u696	Thank you very much, Minister. Does the committee rapporteur, Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, want to speak? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u697	Shortly, Marshal. I was provoked by the voice of the Member asking the question. It must be clearly stated and told to those who listen and are interested in the proposed law, that the Białowieża Forest is in any way not regulated by this amendment to the Act on Nature Conservation and the Act on the Protection of Monuments. In the Białowieża Forest, State Forests are trying to save what was left after the defeat caused by the printer's barker, and this law does not regulate the Białowieża Forest at all. He is pleased that, as in the committee, even here in the plenary room, practically representatives of all clubs support the principles of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u698	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u699	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the report of the committee on the Parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Nature Conservation Act and the Act on the protection of monuments and the protection of monuments, prints No. 1977 and 2019. The government amendment of the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments implemented on 9 September 2017 has caused a lot of harmful confusion. It opened a gate for illegal logging of trees in these areas, because it did not include penalties either under the rules laid down in the Nature Conservation Act or on any other. It introduced provisions that removing a tree from a property entered in the register of monuments would not bear any fees that would have been necessary if the tree had grown on a property not entered in that register. The requirement for replacement plantings in historical areas has also disappeared. The proposed changes in the parliamentary project, print No 1977, are to correct this situation. The consent of the provincial monument conservator will continue to be required to remove trees or shrubs in historical areas. However, the developer proposes that the conservator should no longer issue an additional authorisation under conservation regulations for these areas. This will be done on the basis of the Nature Conservation Act, which regulates this issue in more detail than the Landmark Protection Act. The project therefore brings together issues which are subject to the competence of two separate entities. Importantly, there will be no controversial exemption from the obligation to have trees cut out for trees growing in the conservation area. Thus, the Nature Conservation Act is to be leading in terms of tree clippings in all areas, which positively changes the situation introduced by the 9 September amendment, when the historic areas were removed from under - already reduced by lex Szyszko - the protection provided by the Nature Conservation Act. The proposed amendment should not result in an increased cut-off or destruction of nature. For this reason, the Minister of the Environment's regulation on criteria for recognising living and inanimate nature objects as natural monuments, presented at the end of September this year, raises uncertainty. The tree circuits proposed by Minister Szyszko, which are to be a criterion for monumental protection, do not correspond to the circuits of most existing natural monuments. According to the Association's calculations, the city Tree, for example, in the city of Lądek-Zdrój on 87 monumental trees, only four meet the new limits. In addition, the Minister for the Environment reduces the fees for the cut-off in the Regulation up to 20 and 30 times. According to the proposed amendments to the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments, the permission of the Provincial Monument Preserver requires the conduct of conservation, restoration or construction works at the monument entered in the register, including works consisting of the removal of a tree or shrub from a property or part of it which is entered in the register by a park, garden or other form of greenery designed. Actions to remove trees or shrubs from the property area or parts thereof which are not included in the register by park, garden or other form of designed greenery shall be exempted from the licence of the conservator. The Modern Posel Club will vote in favour of the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u700	Position of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party on the amendment of the Nature Conservation Act and the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments. The Parliamentary Club of PSL welcomes the draft systematizing rules for the removal of trees and shrubs from sites listed in the register of monuments. There is only one comment: Better late than never. In approving the changes, we continue to tidy up the law after the famous Szyszko. Today we are repairing the effects of the Act of 22 June this year. on the amendment of the Act on the protection of monuments and the care of monuments and some other laws. It entered into force on 9 September as the gleaning of Szyszko and caused chaos on the protection of greenery in the areas listed in the register of monuments. Voivodship conservationists of monuments have lost their ability to follow the regulations enshrined in the Nature Conservation Act. In this way, they could no longer impose fees for the cut-off or demand surrogate plantings in parks, squares, architectural objects or other areas listed in the register of monuments. It was practically impossible to ban the fragments at archaeological sites. After nearly 3 months, the legal gap will be closed. Voivodship conservationists of monuments again receive appropriate tools to protect greenery in the areas listed in the register of monuments. In recognition of the positive intentions of the authors of the project, the Parliamentary Club of PSL supports the proposal submitted. It remains to be hoped that the law governing tree clippings will be sufficiently ordered.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u701	Position of the Civic Platform Club on printing 1977. The Civic Platform Club accepts the proposed solutions and recommends the adoption of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u702	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Free and Solidarnia Circle for the report of the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the Act on Nature Conservation and the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments. The bill is aimed at ordering the rules on the removal of trees and shrubs from the property listed in the register of monuments. The rules governing these issues have been amended several times and need to be coherent. Currently, there are two separate systems of administrative decisions empowering the owner of the property to cut the tree. The first is based on the provisions of the Nature Conservation Act, which regulates the removal of trees or shrubs from the property area or parts thereof not included in the register of monuments, and the complementary provisions contain the Act on the protection of monuments and the protection of monuments, which includes the rules for the removal of trees or shrubs from the property entered in the register of monuments. The intention of the designers is to combine both systems, so that the removal of trees or shrubs from the property area or part thereof entered in the register of monuments is subject to the provisions of the Nature Conservation Act, which, contrary to the Act on the Protection of Monuments, is a comprehensive regulation containing provisions on fees and administrative penalties for logging, making plantings and a catalogue of derogations specifying cases where the removal of the tree or shrub does not require the approval of the public administration. As a result of the changes made, the logging of trees or shrubs from the site of the property or part thereof entered in the register of monuments will be carried out on the basis of the permission of the voivodeship conservationist of monuments issued under the provisions of the Nature Conservation Act. Except for the removal of a tree or shrub from a property or part thereof which is entered in the register by a park, garden or other form of designed greenery, it will not require an additional permission from the voivodeship conservationist of monuments issued under the provisions of the Act on the Protection of Monuments. The proposal simplifies and harmonises the existing rules and, for this reason, deserves support. About Free l Solidarni will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u703	As an amendment was tabled to the proposed bill at second reading, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Culture and Media and to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u704	Your Marshal, if this is a possibility of regulation, I propose that we no longer direct this draft law and this amendment to the joint committees, because the amendment was already tabled during the joint meeting of the committee. She was basically a legislative amendment. I therefore propose that this draft be submitted together with the amendment tabled for the third reading. [[To vote for tomorrow.]] Yes, yes, of course, to vote in the voting block. This law did not raise any controversy, the amendment was basically tabled by the legislators during the work of the two joint committees. In fact, all the members of the committee agreed that, if necessary, it should be reported at second reading, which has just happened. Therefore, there is probably no need to convene a committee only to proceed with such an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u705	We're about to analyze the amendment and make a decision. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 23 minutes 13 hours 23 min 16]] I'm reopening the session. As the rapporteur proposed that this amendment be voted on in the voting block, the decision on this issue will be taken tomorrow in the voting block, during the vote by the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 35 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on special arrangements for implementing the Budget Act for 2017 (print No 2045). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Ms Teresa Czerwińska, to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u706	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I hereby present the Government bill amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Act for 2017. First of all, I would like to stress that the proposed bill is justified by the need to enable significant public tasks up to a total amount of PLN 1559 million to be carried out in the context of the savings identified in the special provisions in the current year. The project provides for the possibility to finance up to PLN 1 billion of guaranteed benefits granted above the amounts of obligations resulting from concluded health care contracts to individual healthcare providers in a given area, so-called. Over-executions, through state subsidies to the National Health Fund. Within the foreseen amount of PLN 1 billion will also be financed overperformances in high-specialist benefits financed by the state budget, which mainly concern transplant and cardiological and cardiosurgical procedures. The grant from the State budget to the National Health Fund implies that by 28 February next year the President of the National Health Fund must provide the Minister responsible for Health with information on the use of these additional resources. The draft law also excludes the application of the standard of the statutory article. 22 of the Act of 15 December 2016 on the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland, which aims to improve the process of concluding settlements on the financing of benefits granted above the amount of the obligation resulting from the health care contract. The provisions of the Article shall apply. 22 provide for compulsory participation of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland in this process, which could significantly prolong it, preventing the spending of funds covered by the proposed regulations by the end of the current financial year. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposed provisions also provide for the possibility of allocating up to PLN 200 million from the State budget in the form of a special grant to the Reprivatisation Fund for carrying out statutory tasks in the field of maritime affairs. The Act of 16 December 2016 introducing the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property amended the Commercialisation and Privatisation Act. The Reprivatisation Fund provides for the possibility of implementing investment objectives for non-public or capital companies and loans to companies with the participation of the State Treasury or a public legal person. Enabling this year's budget allocation under the special subsidy for maritime affairs is intended to enable these investment opportunities to be exploited and to provide an additional mechanism for active economic impact. The transfer of the grant will entail the need to amend the financial plan of the Reprivatisation Fund for the current year. The maximum amount of funding and the objective are already set out in this project and it is therefore justified to exclude the application of the Article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 10 and paragraph 10. The 12th Public Finance Act. The proposed law also provides for the authority of the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing to be provided with additional appropriations in this year's Thermomodernisation and Renovation Fund, over the amount set out in the Budget Act for 2017. The maximum additional funding may be up to PLN 180 million. In the Budget Act, expenditure on the Thermomodernisation and Renovation Fund set up at the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego and managed by the Bank was also planned at PLN 66 million, while expenditure using the previous years is to be made according to the Fund's plan of 150 768 thousand. zł. In addition, this fund is powered by the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction by savings from other titles in Part 18, usually at the end of a specific year. The planned fund will enable the priority objectives of housing policy to be met, including on a larger scale the payment of the thermomodernisation premium in connection with the improvement of energy efficiency of single-family buildings, and will allow smooth implementation of the objectives of the Thermomodernisation and Renovation Fund in the current year. The proposed amendment to the Around Budget Act also allows additional funds to be transferred from the State budget of up to PLN 100 million in the form of a special grant to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture for the implementation of financial assistance to agricultural producers who have suffered damage to agricultural crops, forests or in buildings for their agricultural activity caused by the occurrence in August this year. hurricane, rain or hail. It will thus be possible to increase financial assistance in this area. Ladies and gentlemen! The draft around budget law also provides for the possibility to transfer up to PLN 79 million for the purchase of real estate for the Central Anti-corruption Office for the seat in Warsaw and the seat of delegations in Rzeszów, Łódź and Poznań. The source of funding for all of the above. My tasks will be savings in the special reserves of the state budget in part 83, which will be launched by the end of the financial year. The special-purpose reserve, the breakdown of which may be made by the end of the financial year, shall be, inter alia, The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 15000000. The savings identified in the implementation of the budget in the various items of the special reserve are due to the actual demand of the culprits for the resources of those reserves and, in order to manage these funds effectively, the government requests that these appropriations be redirected to other relevant objectives identified during the implementation of the budget. According to Art. 2 the date of entry into force of the Act was set at the date following the date of publication. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I request the adoption of the proposed bill, which contains instruments for achieving important objectives and allowing them to use the savings on the reserve side of the current financial year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u707	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Lech Dobka to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u708	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present an opinion on the Government draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2017. The club fully welcomes the project presented. First of all, I would like to point out that it welcomes the fact that the government, when identifying savings in special reserves in part 83, allocates them, among others. for important social objectives, those that can still be achieved this financial year. Particular attention should be paid to the article. 15a, which provides for the possibility of financing guaranteed benefits, including highly specialised benefits, granted above the amounts of commitments resulting from concluded health care contracts, also in order to enable the National Health Fund to finance over-executions under high-specialist benefits financed from the State budget. Here it is worth noting that some of the over-executions already before 2017 amount to more than 1300 million plus the current 9 months of 2017 is another PLN 1.5 billion, so the amount foreseen in this article will partially solve this problem. It is also worth paying attention to the added article. 15b, which provides for the possibility of allocating up to 200 million from the State budget in the form of a special grant to the Reprivatisation Fund for the implementation of maritime management tasks, inter alia. is an additional mechanism of active economic impact. In addition, it is the provision of the Thermomodernisation and Renovation Fund with a total of 180 million. It is also extremely important to add an article. 15d, which will allow additional funds to be transferred from the State budget to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture for financial assistance to agricultural producers who have suffered damage to agricultural crops, forests, agricultural buildings due to hurricane, rain or hail in August 2017, up to PLN 100 million. In conclusion, once again, I would like to emphasise the full approval of the Law and Justice Club for the project presented and request that the project be submitted to the Public Finance Committee for further examination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u709	Thank you, sir. I invite you to speak with Krystyna Skowronska, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u710	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are dealing for the first time with the second amendment, i.e. the new draft around budget law for 2017. The Minister presented the proposals included in this project. So speaking on behalf of the Civic Platform Club on these proposals, I would like to address at least a few. The allocation of PLN 1 billion for the provision of healthcare, the allocation of these funds to finance over-performances in the framework of health care services relating to internal diseases and orthopaedics and transplantation, as well as in the area of emergency reception rooms and medical rescue services - PLN 1 billion. Our and General Question: Will the breakdown into individual branches of the fund be an algorithm? Because the State said that there was an exemption so that these funds could be used - a special exemption from a specific procedure required by the legislation which would be used by the Attorney General in this regard. Why do we say this is the right direction? The amount of overperformance is about PLN 3 billion. We're giving you 1 billion. We said that in the previous around budget law, this billion for television could be allocated faster and better used to protect health. In addition, we have an element concerning the allocation of up to PLN 100 million for payments and financial assistance to victims, producers of crops and losses in buildings due to hurricane, rain and hail in August 2017. It's a shame it's so late. You should've started these things faster. We also have funds for purchases for the Central Anti-corruption Office, up to 79 million PLN, from the reserve of part 83: Implementation of investments involving European funds. The fact that this reserve has not been used shows that, unfortunately, in terms of the use of European funds, the investments carried out by the State are not in line with the timetable. We understand that this money, in order to use it, is what you want to use for these purposes. The date of entry into force shall be the day following the announcement. There's a conversation ahead of us. whether the procedure for the work in the Committee on Public Finance, as well as the subsequent stages, i.e. before us a second reading at the meeting and a final vote. We will also make amendments to this project because the problem concerning, among other things, has not finally been resolved. resident doctors, and this is important to us, and it is also a matter of indicating the possibility of spending more money on over-execution, paying for overexecution. My general question on I'm going to repeat this once again, it's about using an algorithm so that you can say that this money has been divided into different branches of the National Health Fund. We are in favour of directing this project to further work. It makes more sense, even though it is, as I said, the issue of the amount of health care funds and the late ones - we will not make up for lost time in this area - the transfer of money to people who have suffered from a hurricane, rain or hail in August 2017, but hopefully, as soon as possible, at least these funds will reach the victims and they will still be able to use them if not this year, then next year, by making repairs to their homes that they have lost. It's about those people who lost their roof over their heads. Therefore, further work in committee and discussion on the use of these funds. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u711	Thank you very much, Member. On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, Mr Sachajko made his written statement. I invite Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska to speak on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u712	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In fact, these are further amendments to the around budget law for 2017. It could have been done a long time ago. I hear you're in control of public finances, and you know what's gonna happen at the end of the year. I am already referring to the proposed changes in substance. It's about time we put the money into health care. It is a pity that the money was used first for propaganda in public media, and it is only today that we are spending money on overwork in health care. Polish hospitals at the end of the year have no money to treat patients, because they run out of contracts before and in the last month, the last two months, they don't really have the resources from contracts to shorten queues to operate to treat patients. At the same time, patients die in line for doctors, often waiting for operations to save their lives. It's just an outrageous situation. In fact, this indicates that all this in health care is still very badly organized and planned, because in the 21st century in the country about our level of life absolutely should not happen that the money for health care ends in November. It's just an outrageous situation. Unfortunately, all this is a consequence of the fact that Polish health care is not only badly organized, but also underfunded to the appropriate extent. You prefer spending money on consumption, while we have unsolved basic problems in the country, because such fundamental problems include the treatment of citizens. And it is really the result of the fact that we spend only 4.5% on health care in Poland GDP, while other countries allocate 10% to 11% , even the countries of the European Union. This is the best way to show, in fact, that increasing spending on health care is simply an essential element. If we do not do so and we do not improve certain procedures, we will not be able to provide decent health care for Poles. That's the irresponsibleness of the rulers... [[The fact that we're giving money is irresponsible.]] ...it's wrong to prioritize. It's a good thing that although the second throw after giving money to Torun, father Rydzyk, after giving money to Kursk, TVP Information on propaganda is money for patients. In addition to the health services in this amendment, you also noticed that it is worth to give money for additional compensation for farmers who suffered this year as a result of a storm, which passed through the western part of Poland, and also suffered from other extraordinary events. That's good, of course. The additional funds for the CBA and the thermomodernisation fund are wondering. In the face of the fact that the ombudsman has been asking for 5 million PLN to complete the renovation of the building on the street for a long time, for three years, if I remember correctly. Longer in Warsaw. Today really, 4 million zlotys are needed for this renovation. All in order to carry out the modernisation work, which is necessary in view of the maintenance of the required renovations by the State Labour Inspection as a result of the experts in the field of fire control. The building is under the care of the monument conservator, resulting in a significant increase in costs and extension of works. Within this amount, various installations are planned, mechanical ventilation, electrical, water sewerage, central heating in the lower part of the building. As I said, this work is the result of the 2014 reports. You still haven't found any money for it, and you're still cutting the Ombudsman's money in the budget to this day, so he can't provide his employees with decent and safe working conditions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is an outrageous situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u713	Thank you. Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u714	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present a position towards the government draft law on amending the Law on special arrangements for implementing the budget law for the current year, i.e. 2017. The bill gives the possibility to finance some of the tasks of the state budget this year, from the resources that are savings in the special provisions, i.e. from part 83 of the budget. The government, through this project, envisages redirecting these savings, the 2017 special reserves to the following objectives. The highest amount, i.e. up to PLN 1 billion, will be directed to the National Health Fund to finance over-executions in the field of health care services related to hospitalization for internal diseases, orthopaedics, traumatology performed in an emergency mode, as well as oncology and oncology services of high-specialist, transplant, cardiological and cardiosurgical care provided in a life-saving manner. The value of these unfunded overperformances amounts to PLN 1334 million for benefits made before 2017 and for benefits from the current year for 9 months amounts to PLN 1708 million. So it is entirely justified in our view to direct this money to health care. The amount of 200 million will be allocated to the Reprivatisation Fund for investment tasks in the field of maritime affairs, the amount of 180 million PLN - to the Thermomodernisation and Renovation Fund, while the amount of 100 million will be allocated to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture for financial assistance to agricultural producers who have suffered damage to crops, forests or buildings which serve to carry out their agricultural activities caused by storms occurring in August this year. Well, maybe it's a little late, but if the government has an idea to pay those victims, I don't think there's anything to pick on. The amount of up to PLN 79 million will be used to purchase real estate for the Central Anti-corruption Office. The bill also provides for the exemption of the Public Prosecutor's Office from the obligation to participate in the settlement process. According to the assumptions of this project, in the case of funding over-executions by the National Health Fund, the amount made available amounts to up to PLN 1 billion, and these overexecutions, as we have calculated, exceed PLN 3 billion, so that the settlement will be in the form of settlements with the provider. Therefore, the Attorney General is obliged to participate in the formulation of these arrangements. Such an expectation of participation in this trial of the Attorney General can indeed prolong and complicate the entire process of payment of these excesses. We therefore believe that it is absolutely justified to waive this requirement. It is unique, in a specific period and we do not see any major problems related to it. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is in favour of directing the project to further work in the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u715	Thank you very much. Please remain on the floor, Madam, because you will be the first to ask a question. Anybody else want to be on the list? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. Please, Madame, ask me to ask you a question. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u716	Minister! I have a little question about the transfer of the amount of PLN 200 million to the Reprivatization Fund. Somewhere in the explanatory memorandum of the bill, I have read the suggestion that it will be investment expenditure in the maritime sector. Hence my question, Minister: What are the specific objectives of these measures? How much can we just know the details in this regard? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u717	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Skutecki, the Kukiz club15, will ask further questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u718	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! It is very good news that PLN 1 billion was found to finance overwork. However, it is worrying to know that this is only one third of what needs to be financed when it comes to overdoing in health care. Minister, a very short, simple question, please explain this to the layman: Who lends credit to these overdoings? Is that what they're borrowing hospitals? Who pays for this, if not the state?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u719	The last question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u720	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question about the expenses that are foreseen in the bill. Before me, the Member has already asked about the grant for the Reprivatisation Fund. I also wanted to ask: What is the purpose of which companies, which units will receive this funding? Is this related to some business plan? What are the details? The same applies to property purchase expenses for the Central Anti-corruption Office. Is this some kind of emergency decision? Because that wasn't in the budget before. Where does that come from? Where will it be? Have the decisions already been made, or is it just a preparation for some investment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u721	The first question will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, Jerzy Materna.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u722	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As far as funds of 200 million which come from the Reprivatisation Fund are concerned, they are used to raise the capital of the Company Development Fund, which we are to supervise. This is a financial instrument supporting commercial investment in the maritime economy, which will support the ferries sector. That's what we're going to use these resources for. We also want to power the Polish Baltic Shipping. We're just gonna build more shuttles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u723	Please answer the remaining questions from the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. Katarzyna Głowala, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u724	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! As regards Mrs Skowronska's question, whether an amount of up to 1 billion will be divided by an algorithm, I would like to say that it will not be divided by an algorithm. On the other hand, I will also refer to Mrs Hennig-Kloska's speech. I would like to remind you that this year more than PLN 3.2 billion has been allocated to the financing of health services, which results in 4,73% GDP, so it's an increase from 4.5 to 4.73. On the other hand, I would also like to remind you that tomorrow there will be a third reading of the draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care, which regulates the path towards health funding up to 6%. GDP in 2025 As regards the question of Mr Skutecki as regards crediting overperformances, if these are overperformances, if the provider concludes an agreement with the NFZ to grant so-called "executives." Lifesaving benefits, the NFZ has to pay for it. When it comes to overperformances that are above the contract limit, unfortunately, the hospital covers it with its own resources, and then it happens either on a judicial basis or through a settlement with the NFZ. We want to finance such overperformances, where there is still the possibility of payment. By way of settlement about 70% We're gonna finance these over-executions that are still outstanding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u725	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u726	Dear Marshal, Ministers! High Izbo! On behalf of the club Kukiz'15, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law on the next amendment of the law on amending the law on special arrangements for the implementation of the budget law for 2017, print No 2045. We learned about the existence of this law several hours ago. I will tell Members that he was not even on the agenda yesterday. This is another example of the scandalous way in which laws are dealt with in this House. We're going over the draft budget bill again. Let me remind you that, two weeks ago, we were working on a proposal to amend the same bill and passed it. Once again, we see a reckless budgetary change, but actually a poorly prepared budget law. What should be said about this law? This is once again spending budgetary resources because there is money to be spent. Let me remind you, it's almost 10%. We spend an annual budget on interest on government debt, and there will be more and more. Another interesting thing about this law is the frequent use of the word "possibly." And so the National Health Fund can receive 1 billion. The Minister responsible for rural development may transfer additional funds from the state budget to the restructuring agency - 100 million. In order to carry out the tasks and to finance the purchase of real estate for the Central Anti-corruption Office - up to PLN 79 million, the minister responsible for budget matters may change the destination of the special provisions. The Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing may transfer from the State budget additional appropriations, over the amount of appropriations set out in the Budget Act for 2017, for the Thermomodernisation and Renovation Fund - up to PLN 180 million. Dear Members, It should be assumed that, following the law adopted at the last meeting, when the PiS Members spent 1 billion on government-dependent television with a light hand, a queue was created willing to take public funds for the issue of measures to increase the sovereign debt to the sea. It is difficult to clearly criticize this project, because in this whole issue it can - maybe patients will benefit, and not just President Kurski. Sorry they're noticed at the very end. I would like to remind you that when you tabled the budget at the last meeting, you did not take advantage of the amendment made by Mr Kukiz'15 Blazh Parda, who had already alarmed at that time, spoke about a drastically underfunded health service, and you preferred to use this money for your own television. To sum up, members of Kukiz'15 may support this project. In the context of recent events and the proposal tabled by the PIS Members, I would add that the JOWs must remain.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u727	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2017. The state budget for the current power is a new look at state finances, as well as a new, smart management of the budget. For eight long years, the reign of the present, total opposition has failed to change virtually anything. She couldn't do anything for ordinary citizens. Only the current government in the short term, only two years could find money for 500+, for raising the lowest pensions, pensions and many others. The total opposition worried and cared only about their own pockets. Everything's changing now. The government of the current term of office and Minister Mateusz Morawicki have a good plan for Poland. They can effectively manage their finances so that Poland can further develop and compete in international markets. Thanks to this approach to financial policy, we keep moving forward and what is important we become independent from other countries. This is possible because with power we have people for whom private benefits do not matter - citizens matter, but it does not matter to total opposition. The government is constantly under attack by it, with the lack of substantive arguments in its statements. I know perfectly well that criticism comes easily. It is certainly much easier than making changes that make Poland an increasingly important player on the international stage. As you can see, Poland can also afford a lot, because in the end the finances of our country were taken care of by people competent, honest and most importantly loyal to their own people. Just refer to the work of the team of the entire Ministry of Finance. We are talking about people who have done something really great for Poland, for Poles, for all of us, and now they are being attacked. For being able to develop funds that we can use in a special way today, for example, to support health care. In particular, to increase the rate of payment for overperformance of oncology benefits, or to increase the level of financing of overperformances primarily in the field of health care services, carried out above the limits by primary branches in county hospitals and hospitalizations in the field of internal diseases and orthopaedics and traumatology. It will also finance financial assistance to agricultural producers who have suffered damage to agricultural crops, forests or buildings due to the occurrence of a hurricane in August 2017. Is supporting Polish citizens affected by the natural disaster an action worthy of total criticism of the opposition? I don't understand this hysteria. In conclusion, I repeat: near Free and Solidarnia I admire the management of Polish finances by people who serve the welfare of our country. In the budget and subsequent changes there is a consequence, as well as a far-reaching policy of social solidarity. We consider proposals and budgetary changes as fair, serving Polish families and contributing to the economic development of our country. Every budget, as well as any correction, if it has the right objectives, will have the full support of the Free and Solidarnia wheels.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u728	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law on amending the Law on Special Solutions for the implementation of the Budget Act for 2017, contained in print No 2045, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: the report of the Commission for Administration and Home Affairs and the Commission for Communication with Poles abroad on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on repatriation, the Act on the Charter of Poles and the Act on Foreigners (prints No. 2000 and 2026). I ask Mrs Małgorzata Wypych to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u729	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Report of the Communication Commission with Poles Abroad and the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on repatriation, the Act on the Charter of Poles and the Act on Foreigners, print No 2000. It is my honor to present the 2026 print report. Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Art. 54 (1) (a) On 15 November 2017, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Commission for Communication with Poles abroad and the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for consideration. The Commission for Communication with Poles abroad and the Commission for Administration and Home Affairs after considering this resolution at its meeting on 22 November 2017 recommend the adoption of all amendments tabled by the Senate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u730	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mrs Anna Schmidt-Rodziewicz to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u731	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the resolution of the Senate in print No. 2000 on the Act amending the Law on repatriation, the Act on the Charter of Poles and the Act on Foreigners of 10 November 2017. Nine amendments are included in the Senate resolution. As indicated in the explanatory memorandum of the resolution, the amendments are editorial and precise in order to ensure the correct understanding and correct implementation of the provisions of the Act. In presenting the position of the club, however, I would like to remind you of the main objective of the project. It was the introduction of instruments that will effectively help to adapt and solve the housing problems of repatriates arriving in Poland. It is worth remembering that the creation for the repatriates of worthy and good conditions to return and settle is our duty and fulfilment of the moral obligations of the Polish state towards the compatriots who, against their will, found themselves outside the borders of the homeland, and their descendants. This law not only gives our fellow countrymen legal instruments, but also provides financial support for all those who have been unable to return to their homeland for many years because of their difficult financial situation. Ladies and gentlemen! The Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of all amendments tabled by the Senate and I hope that all clubs over political divisions will vote in favour of this law unanimously. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u732	Thank you, Member. I invite you to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club by Mrs Joanna Fabisiak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u733	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Civic Platform club vis-à-vis the bill, print No. 2000 concerning the laws on repatriation, on the Charter of Poles and on foreigners. The nine amendments that were tabled by the Senate would not have raised doubts and deserved a recommendation if it had not been for a minor fact. At the meeting, a representative of the Legislative Bureau spoke and expressed his disapproval of these amendments. Unfortunately, the case was not clarified, because the corresponding representative of the Ministry considered that interpretations could be different and the government supported these amendments. However, it seems to me that if the amendments are legislative in nature and raise doubts about the Legislative Office, it should be explained what did not happen. It should also be added that the law that entered into force in May of this year is already being amended. Seym... The Commission considered this, these amendments were more than 30. Now the Senate has tabled nine more amendments, so this text is not refined. Therefore, it seems that the question of these doubts of the Legislative Office should be clarified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u734	Thank you very much. I am asking Mr Paweł Skutecki to speak on behalf of the Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u735	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour of presenting my position on behalf of the Kukiz club15 on the amendments of the Senate to the Act on repatriation and the Polish Charter. The Kukiz Club15 adopts legislative amendments to the Senate. We have no comments here. With regard to the substantive issues relating to the amendment of this law, we appreciate the fact that the legislator responds to the expectations of the repatriates. It should be remembered that bringing families to Poland is one thing, but it is also necessary to provide them with conditions for adaptation in the environment, so as to bind them to Poland even more. It is important that assistance is not only a financial path but also a means of helping to enter the labour market or participate in society. At the same time, as always, we stress how important it is to support Poles who consciously stay outside Poland, also in the East, and where they want to nurture, build and recreate this Polishness. The Kukiz Club15 accepts the Senate's amendments and supports the amendments to the Act. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u736	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz made a written statement on behalf of the Modern Club. I will therefore ask Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszka to speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u737	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Senate's committee on the Act amending the Act on Repatriation, the Act on the Polish Charter and the Act on Foreigners, print No 2000. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Detailed debate on the above. The Act was held on 26 October 2017. The Polish People's Party was and is in favour of the bill. To WW. The Senate Act has made amendments. The majority are editorial amendments, which are more precise. One amendment concerns the addition of the Act on a provision temporarily maintaining the implementing rules under Article. Article 80 (1) (b) and (c) of Delegated Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 1 Act on Foreigners, which as a result of an indirect change of the content of the provision authorising the issuing of an implementing act... The Polish People's Party is in favour of these amendments and mentioned above. Laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u738	Thank you very much, sir. There was no person on the list of Members who could ask a question at this point. I therefore understand that the rapporteur is no longer speaking. This concludes the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u739	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on: Report of the committee on the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Repatriation, the Act on the Polish Charter and the Act on Foreigners (prints 2000 and 2026). The project aims, among other things, to increase aid for housing problems for repatriates. The Senate has tabled 9 amendments, amendments 1 and 9 are legislative in nature, while the 8 amendments refer to transitional provisions which are lacking in the Act adopted by the Sejm. The Modern Posel Club is in favour of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u740	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: Report of the Board of Administration and Home Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Foreigners and some other laws (prints No 2010 and 2016). Mr Jerzy Polakzek will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u741	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I, too, will, following the footsteps of my previous speaker, shorten my speech as much as possible. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs considered the amendments made by the Senate to the Act amending the Law on Foreigners and some other laws. Let me remind you that this is the implementation of one of the European directives on intra-corporate movement of workers, and this applies to foreigners from countries outside the Union. The Senate has submitted 30 editorial or clarification amendments to the Sejm. A committee meeting was very short and practical, which adopted it uniformly and recommended that the Sejm adopt all 30 amendments. I have no further comments on this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u742	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Jerzy Polak again - on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u743	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, continuing my speech as rapporteur, I just want to say that the parliamentary club supports all the Senate amendments and will vote in favour of them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u744	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Wojciech Wilk, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u745	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to present our position on the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the adoption of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the Act on Foreigners and on certain other laws. Most of the amendments adopted by the Senate are clear and precise, but there are also substantive amendments, inter alia. a definition of the concept of the first residence card has been introduced. As a rule, this card is to be issued to a foreigner at his request, but for humanitarian reasons it can also be issued out of office. To the article. Article 1 is added. 52a concerning proceedings for granting a temporary residence permit to a foreigner for the purpose of training in studies. This will make it easier, for example. admission to studies of foreigners who participated in European Union programmes. Several amendments which have been made aim to ensure that the provisions which were to enter into force on 1 January 2018 enter into force 30 days after the date of publication. Given the time it takes, for example, for publication, I think this is the right solution. The consequence of the extension of the date of entry into force of part of the provisions is the amendment of the Article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 new, since according to the Public Finance Act expenditure limits are set for a period of 10 years and therefore the expenditure limit should be covered by 2027. As I said at the outset, the amendments are mostly clear and precise. I think the substance has been well introduced. So, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I would like to say that we will continue to support them in their legislative work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u746	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15. You will not speak. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz made his speech on behalf of the Modern Club in writing. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u747	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party to present my position on the report of the Senate's committee on the amended Act on Foreigners and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The substantive and substantive discussion and an in-depth assessment of the Senate amendments discussed in the Parliamentary Committee allow us to believe that the legislation in question has been refined in a sufficiently precise manner. Language errors have been eliminated and the existing provisions have been corrected so that, in accordance with the principles of legislative technique, they are clear, legible and sufficiently precise that their application, given the importance of the substantive act, does not create difficulties of interpretation. The Polish People's Party Club approves and will vote in favour of the Senate's amendments and thus the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u748	Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan made a written statement on behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle. No one has entered the list of people who would like to ask a question at this point. Nor does the rapporteur express his willingness to speak at this point. I therefore close the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u749	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the report of the commission on the adoption of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the Act amending the Act on Foreigners and some other laws, print No 2010. The draft law amending the Foreigners Act and certain other laws aims primarily at adapting the Polish legal order to Directive 2014/66/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15.05.2014. The Senate has introduced 30 amendments, largely legislative. The Modern Posel Club is in favour of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u750	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Wola and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the report of the Senate's committee on the Act amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws. The purpose of the Act is to implement Directive 2014/66/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council. The Directive concerns the regulation of the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals in intra-corporate transfers. The regulations introduced will influence the informed management of migration in our country and create a better legal framework for the reception of foreigners. It is a good solution to facilitate the granting of temporary residence and work permits and permanent residence permits for workers working in professions desirable for the Polish economy. The proposed changes can have a positive impact on the labour market and contribute to reducing labour shortages in the Polish labour market. This will be supported by the introduction of optional limits with the division of inter alia. for voivodships, competitions, types of contracts. Their introduction will prevent negative developments in the labour market. The amendments introduced by the Act will facilitate the legalisation of aliens' stays and will eliminate abuses. The senators submitted 30 amendments to this law, mainly editorial, eliminating interpretation doubts and harmonising the name without affecting the substantive content of the law. About Free and Solidarni will support the amendments introduced by the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u751	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. Is Mr Latos here yet? How about Mr Grzegorz Janik? [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] Then we'll continue. We proceed with the examination of item 31 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism on the Senate Resolution on the Act on Tourism Events and Related Tourism Services (Prints No 2012 and 2027). I would like to ask Mr Grzegorz Janik to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u752	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism regarding the Senate's amendments to the Act on Tourism Events and Related Tourism Services. The Senate held its meeting on 15 November this year. considered the Act on Tourism Events and Related Tourism Services. He approved five amendments to it. Having examined the amendments adopted by the Senate, the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism on 22 November 2017 unanimously adopted a positive opinion at its meeting all amendments, with amendments 1 and 2 having given an opinion: consider together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u753	Thank you. Stay on the stand, Mr President, because you will be representing the Law and Justice Club in a moment. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Grzegorz Janik will present his speech on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u754	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the Senate's amendments to the Act on Tourism Events and Related Tourism Services. Law and Justice supports all amendments adopted by the Senate, bearing in mind the important role of tourism in the economy, the safety and satisfaction of our tourists and the development of tourism organisers. The Law and Justice will support the aforementioned. Corrections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u755	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Kucharski, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u756	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I am pleased to present the position of the Civic Platform Club on the report of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism, print No 2027, on the position of the Senate on the Act on Tourism Events and Related Tourism Services, print No 2012. Minister! We are very pleased that the amendments we wanted to introduce in the Sejm in the committees have been made in the Senate. These are the amendments that are needed and by the environment, the tourism industry very expected. The position of the club is that we will support the amendments made in the Senate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u757	Thank you very much. Mr Kozłowski made his speech on behalf of the Kukiz Club15 in writing. Mrs Elżbieta Stępień, representing the Modern, does not exist. I will therefore ask Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszka to present his speech on behalf of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u758	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party to present my position on the report of the Senate's resolution on the Act on Tourism Events and Related Tourism Services. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It should be recalled that, in connection with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on tourism events and related tourism services, Member States of the European Union were required to update and extend existing legislation on tourism. By 1 January 2018, Member States are to adopt and publish the relevant provisions which should enter into force on 1 July 2018. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To WW. The Senate has tabled amendments. It has been clarified, inter alia, that the maintenance of the tourist event, as well as related tourist services will not occur if the value of additional tourist services is less than 25% the total value of combined tourist services. The Act defines among others. the conditions for offering the sale and execution of tourist events and related tourist services, and the protection of travellers in the event of the insolvency of the travel agency and the functioning of the Tourist Guarantee Fund. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish People's Party is in favour of the amendments to the above mentioned. Laws. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u759	Thank you very much. We're going back to the Modern Club. In place of the absent Mrs Elżbieta Stępień - Mr Mirosław Suchoń. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u760	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the Senate resolution on the Act on tourist events and related tourist services. Ladies and gentlemen! The Senate presented 5 amendments. These amendments are more precise, more detailed. It must be agreed with the Senate's view that the wordings proposed by the High House after the legislative process of the "significant part" type are quite general and could create interpretational problems, and therefore the specific indications proposed by the Senate will make these provisions clearer, I would say, more clear to the citizens, and that is what this is all about. So that in the following cases these changes are absolutely justified, therefore the Modern Posel Club will support the amendments proposed by the Senate in the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u761	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Free and Solidarni wheels, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan presented her statement in writing. There is one person who has been asked to ask a question. Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u762	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question for the Minister. Does the Ministry provide for the funds to be paid by tourism operators to the Guarantee Fund on a yearly basis? What's the indicative amount? What amount do you expect after the introduction of this law, and what more or less will the funds be paid by travel agencies or entities that organize tourism? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u763	I would very much like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Janik, to answer this question. [[No, Minister.]] The Minister wants to answer that question? You're welcome. So the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Sport and Tourism Dariusz Rogowski will answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u764	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! This amount is currently not known to me, even to give it in the estimated value. Implementation regulations are currently under way, and that is where these rates are set. They will vary, which is why I am unable to give such a amount precisely or even imprecisely at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u765	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u766	Dear Marshal, On behalf of the Poselski Club Kukiz'15, I have the honour to present our position on the Senate resolution on the Act on Tourist Events and Related Tourist Services, print No 2012. The Senate, after considering the Act on Tourism Events and Related Tourism Services adopted by the Sejm at its meeting on 27 October 2017, introduced 5 amendments to its text. All the Senate amendments are justified and our Members' Club will vote against their rejection.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u767	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle, I present my views on the report of the Senate's committee on the Act on Tourism Events and Related Tourism Services. It should be stressed that tourism plays an important role in the economy of all European Union countries. The introduction of these rules is crucial to the dynamic changes in the tourism market. This will reduce uncertainty in the tourism market. Many of the new developments that occur in the tourism area are not yet regulated, which is why it is most appropriate to make changes. It should be stressed that the rules on tourism organisers, tourist intermediaries, travel agents and hotel operators, pilots and tour guides currently included in a single legal act should be separated from those relating to hotel services. This is a right and necessary solution, because these rules concern two different activities, and above all different scale of action and different responsibilities. The draft law includes, among others, the following: rules on how to provide travel information and the extent to which information is provided, the rules on liability for non-compliance or improper performance of the contract. I believe that the new regulations will have a positive impact on the confidence of consumers of tourism services in the providers of these services. The increase in competitiveness should translate into an increase in business revenues. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of the entire bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u768	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: Report of the Health Committee on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Law on the Protection of Mental Health and certain other laws (Prints No 2011 and 2028). I would very much like to ask Mr Tomasz Latos to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u769	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Health Committee, I have the honour to present a report to the Senate on the bill amending the Law on the Protection of Mental Health and certain other laws, prints Nos 2011 and 2028 respectively. The Senate has tabled one amendment which the Health Commission is proposing to adopt. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u770	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to speak on behalf of the Club Law and Justice by Mrs Catherine Chechara. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u771	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, my position on the amendment tabled by the Senate of the Republic of Poland concerning the amendment of the Law of 19 August 1994 on the protection of mental health, prints Nos 2011 and 2028. The Senate considered a law amending the Law on the Protection of Mental Health and some other laws and passed one amendment to it. The Senate takes the view that the consent of a statutory representative to admit a mentally ill person or mentally impaired person to a social assistance home, even if such a person remains under parental authority, should be preceded by the authorisation of a custody court. This solution, in the Senate's view, properly secures the situation of a person suffering from mental illness or mental impairment. High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The Senate's proposed amendment to the abovementioned amendment. the law is justified. Through the new provision in the Act, we improve the area of mental health care. The Law and Justice Club therefore welcomes the Senate's amendment to the Act and asks for this amendment to be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u772	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u773	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The history of this amendment is very interesting, because the amendment was introduced by the Health Committee, the Sejm adopted this change, and it was about the article relating to the referral of a minor to a social assistance home. As it turned out, the discussion on this record was also ongoing in the government. The Minister of Justice took the view that such a provision was detrimental to the family, that not in every case a family court must take the floor if the family wants to transfer a minor person to a social security home. There was a discussion in the Health Committee. The amendment of the submission discussed by the Health Committee was accepted by the Minister of Health. The Minister of Health expressly agreed to change the contents so that he did not in fact make his family illegal in this case. What does it turn out to be? There's a bill to the Senate, and there's no amending it in the Sejm. And the Senate restores that sound, which raised doubts about the Minister of Health at the time. In yesterday's discussion of this amendment, the Minister of Justice, when specifically asked about this provision, repeated the allegations against this wording - that the rule is unconstitutional, that it is harmful to families, that a family court should not be involved in any case where the interference of this court is not necessary to leave part of the power of the family. Nevertheless, the Minister of Health suddenly changed his mind and felt that this Senate amendment had to be accepted. But in order to be more interesting, we have witnessed the tribute paid by the vice-president of the committee to the Minister of Health. It sounded like this: I'll never believe it, I'll never give up, I won't take into account what the Legislative Bureau says, I'll never repeat it again, and what only the Minister of Health will do, it's me in prostration, the vice-president of this committee, I'll accept. I must say, I was embarrassed by this homage. We work in committees not to hat ministers, to whomever, we are to create a good right, because there is a separation of executive authority and there is a separation of parliamentary power, a constitutional separation. And that is why, in agreeing to the position of Minister of Justice on this very sensitive matter, we will not support the amendment made by the Senate... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u774	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u775	...and we will vote against it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u776	Kukiz Club15, Mr Paweł Skutecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u777	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, in the Committee on Health, there was also a very interesting situation when two ministers had a different opinion, but that is probably what the discussion in the Committee on Health is about. I would like to present our position, the position of the Kukiz club15, on the Senate's amendment to the Law on the Protection of Mental Health. The Senate amendment actually introduces only one, but a significant change. The decision to admit a mentally ill person or mentally impaired person to a social assistance home is, in practice, most often a decision that will have consequences for the last days of his life. In the Seym project, it was enough to decide the legal guardians, the parents, to lock the DPS doors for many years, sometimes forever for such a person. The senators proposed a return to the original concept so that such an important decision would have to be preceded by a court-martial authorisation. This direction seems more to guarantee the safety and objectivity of this truly horribly difficult and having such huge consequences of the decision. The Kukiz Club15 is definitely in favour of this because the future of a mentally ill or mentally retarded minor was decided not only by her guardians, but by an objective custody court to lean on her future. We will support this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u778	On behalf of the Modern Club, the Polish People's Party Club and the Free and Solidarnia Circles, Members made written submissions. One person has joined the question, Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform. So let me ask you a question - one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u779	Thank you, Marshal. I have a question for the Minister. Minister, if the court to which the case goes decides that it does not give its consent, as parents want the child to be placed in the welfare home, then what about the child? Parents have different intentions because they are unable to take care of this child because they cannot handle it and often make a very difficult decision for them, and the court decides - no, try to take care of their child yet, the court does not confirm the decision concerning the child. What then? This isn't about a legal representative or an incapacitated person. Why, however, the Ministry of Health did not agree to the decision of the Ministry of Justice, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But to stand on the side of the child's welfare in this case, so that it doesn't get roughed up so that his case can be solved quickly when his parents decide that they can't take care of their own child? I'm asking for an answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u780	Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Mr Marek Tombarkiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u781	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards the situation that you have described, it must be borne in mind that the custody court always takes into account the opinion of medical experts who, due to their current state and medical records, are forensic experts in order to provide very substantive assistance in such situations, which will decide on the outcome of the judgment of the court. On the other hand, back to the question of proceding, as you have said, one can argue on the way, but this version of the amendment, which was included in the government proposal, that is, the original version, was finally accepted. Thank you very much. [[May I, Your Marshal? The Minister didn't answer my question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u782	No. The discussion is closed... You're gonna be okay, aren't you? Rapporteur to the committee by Mr Tomasz Latos. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u783	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I originally did not want to take the floor at the end, but I have to correct some things in connection with the speech of the Member, by way of a certain precision related to the transmission of information, including the transcript. First of all, there was no homage to one minister or another. The whole case concerned information which was presented by the Legislative Bureau. I think that it is possible for interested parties to look at the transcripts from the committee, both this and earlier, and there they will find exactly what I am talking about. It so happens that this amendment was suggested by the Legislative Office, which was later supported by the Vice-Minister of Health present at the meeting. On the other hand, this matter obviously continued in the clouaries, and what Mr Skutecki said was raised by several Members of various clubs, that there is at least a potential danger that, in an unjustified situation, legal guardians or parents will make adverse decisions from the point of view of the interests of the child, in addition to the disabled child. For these reasons, as I understand it, there has been an amendment by the Senate, which, for the child's interest, the basic interests of the child, often, as you have just said, maybe for the rest of his life is to be secured. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u784	Thank you very much. I'm closing the discussion right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u785	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the report of the Senate's resolution on the Act amending the Law on the Protection of Mental Health and some other laws. According to the amendment, the admission to the social assistance home of a person without its consent will require the decision of the guardian court to refer the person to such a home, with the consent of its statutory representative. The new rules are intended to bring Polish law into line with the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and the Constitutional Tribunal. In addition, a periodic mental examination of a person in a social assistance home was introduced in order to justify his or her stay in such a facility. Studies would be carried out at least every 6 months. In order to ensure better legal protection for a person who is directed without his consent to a psychiatric hospital, an obligation to appoint a lawyer or counsel has been introduced. The Tribunal shall also be required to establish a lawyer or counsel of its own motion if he considers his participation to be necessary and the person concerned will not be able to make an appropriate application. In the course of its work, the Commission adopted an amendment on the issue of parental consent to place the child in a treatment facility without the need for judicial consent and legislative and editorial amendments. The Senate introduced one amendment to the bill. According to this amendment, the statutory representative's consent to the admission of a minor to a social assistance home, even if it remains under parental authority, will require authorisation from the custody court. The aim of the novel is to increase the protection of people with mental disorders directed without their consent to social assistance homes and those to whom direct coercion applies. The admission to the home of a person's social assistance without his consent, and with the consent of his or her statutory representative, will require a decision by a court of custody. The Polish People's Party Club will vote in accordance with the opinion of the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u786	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The amended amendment to the Law on the revision of the Law on the Protection of Mental Health and some other laws is in the opinion of the Poselski Club the modern amendment is correct. It meets the constitutional standards by implementing the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and the Constitutional Tribunal. We believe that monitoring of the rooms where people who have been subjected to direct coercion should long ago become a universal standard, as this solution increases the security of both parties. Modern supports the granting of greater procedural rights and the possibility of obtaining legal assistance from a proxy. The rightness of this regulation is indisputable. We also consider it satisfactory to introduce mandatory periodic mental health tests for patients. This will avoid further cases similar to the case of Kędzior against Poland. Furthermore, we believe that it is necessary to clarify the need for clear rules governing the conditions and the way in which persons who are incapacitated are placed in establishments. In conclusion, the Members' Club The modern vote will be in favour of the bill amending the Law on the Protection of Mental Health and some other laws in the wording presented.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u787	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle, I present my position on the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Law on the Protection of Mental Health and certain other laws. The change proposed by the senators assumes that placing a mentally ill or mentally retarded minor under parental authority in a social assistance home will require prior consent from the custody court. I understand the negative position of the Ministry of Justice regarding this change, which is in fact a return to the original submission of the bill proposed by the government. Above all, parents should decide what is best for their children. Responsibility for the child is the natural right of the parent enshrined in the Constitution. However, I am convinced that no one wants to take those rights away from anyone. When considering this issue, it is important to remember, which has been repeated many times, that children placed for various reasons in the DPS often stay there for their whole lives. It is therefore certainly difficult, and in my opinion, for the child's sake and in his best interest, to be supported by an objective opinion and the consent of the court, because apart from parents of the youngest citizens, the country should also take care of the country, which is also enshrined in the Constitution. I must also stress that I find it absurd that the opponents of the Senate amendment argue that its adoption will entail too much burden on the courts. I ignore the fact that, according to the committee's meeting, it is not right to exist. It should be made clear that this is not a criterion that we should consider at all, with a view to protecting the lives of our children. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of the Senate resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u788	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 32 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Law on Road Traffic Law and certain other laws (prints Nos 2013 and 2015). Mr Rafał Weber will submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u789	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Senate, after considering the Act of 27 October 2017 amending the Law on Road Traffic and certain other laws, decided to introduce 12 amendments to its text. The Sejm Infrastructure Committee discussed these amendments at its meeting on Tuesday. The Sejm Infrastructure Committee recommends that the High House adopt all 12 amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u790	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Aleksandr Anczynski to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u791	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Law and Justice Club to present the club's position regarding the report of the Senate's Senate's resolution on the Act amending the Law on Road Traffic and certain other laws, prints Nos 2013 and 2015. The committee's report shows full acceptance of the amendments tabled by the Senate. These include: professional registration of vehicles for which only a vehicle not previously registered on the territory of the Republic of Poland or abroad may be the subject of a decision. In addition, vehicle registration rules using professional registration documents should only serve to test vehicles which were not previously registered. Among the amendments there is a requirement to include in the list of vehicles used in road traffic using professional registration documents, carried out by traders during a transitional period, data on the date and number of the document confirming payment of excise duties in the territory of the country or a certificate stating exemption from excise duty. In conclusion, the Law and Justice Club fully accepts this law together with the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u792	I ask Mr Tomasz Kostusia to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u793	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an opinion on these Senate amendments on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. The Road Traffic Law introducing the possibility of professional registration of vehicles is important and necessary as it simplifies the activities of entities involved in the distribution, production, sale and research activities under which test vehicles are driven as it reduces the administrative burden for the above mentioned. operators are bringing us closer to the regulations applied in Western Europe, because entrepreneurs, research units, are waiting for it to meet the expectations of citizens. Unfortunately, the 12 amendments tabled by the Senate - I am referring in particular to amendments 1, 3, 6 and 10. - disappoint, they're unacceptable. And the arguments that these amendments prevent the lack of technical reviews, paid duties, excise duties, that they seal the system, restrict the fields of abuse, finally order the issues of vehicle testing, distribution, financing, do not convince us. Why? That's because they distort the idea of a bill. Because they eliminate its pro-social and pro-economic character. Because they significantly reduce the use of professional boards. Finally, therefore, because they limit the facilitation of cars. This can be seen as distorting the ideas and principles of this law. To sum up, the law, which was supposed to be pro-social, pro-economic, serves citizens, Poles, limits the use of professional registration documents only to vehicles that have never been registered before, thus excluding e.g. car dealers use this type of registration, and this will consequently affect ordinary people who will continue to have a difficult test drive on the vehicle they will want to buy. To conclude, I find that the Civic Platform supports the direction of changes in the Act amending the Traffic Law, supports the introduction of professional registration of vehicles. However, we do not agree with the Senate's amendments. In other words, we will not support amendments 1, 3, 6, and 10. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u794	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Szramka made his statement on behalf of the Kukiz Club15 in writing. So Mr Mirosław Suchoń will give his speech on behalf of the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u795	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! There's no minister? You're the minister. Minister! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the resolution of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws, prints Nos 2013 and 2015. Ladies and gentlemen! The bill we are discussing, which is being debated, is very interesting. It's so postulated for a long time, I'd say a bow towards entrepreneurs who are professionally involved in the distribution, testing of vehicles. Until now, such entrepreneurs have normally had to register vehicles which are subject or traded or tested or tested, but there is no form that would facilitate this activity. This bill was just responding to these needs. She has the task of facilitating business in such a way that it will be possible to register professionally, in short, so that entrepreneurs will be able to register their vehicles more easily, in principle use one evidence and license plate, one set for many different vehicles, e.g. in the case of test drives, test drives at research centres or distributors. The Senate has proposed amendments and I have to say that we are a little disappointed, because some of the amendments narrow down the catalogue of actors who will be able to use this, I would say, to facilitate this deregulation. I understand the ministry's concern, because it probably meant that today's system requirements should not be compromised. Ladies and gentlemen, I firmly believe that if we are talking about what is more important, it is precisely this deregulation that is more important, because we all want companies to function better, I would say more effectively. Therefore, we cannot support those amendments which provide for a limitation, a tightening of this catalogue and the exclusion from it of those companies that sell second-hand cars. The second thing I want to say is excise duty. I'm running out of time, so I'm gonna ask you a question about this tax. This amendment also seems to complicate the system in some way, but our vote on Amendment 10 [[♪ The bell ♪]] We depend on what position you will present to the Minister. Other amendments by the Posel Club The modern will support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u796	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u797	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Club of the Polish People's Party has supported these assumptions throughout the process of proceeding on this bill, as well as with the vote. We also want to declare today that we will vote in accordance with the committee's position. Nevertheless, in my opinion, life itself can show that we will be coming back in time to clarify and expand those issues which have already been identified by my previous speakers as narrowing and limiting the good assumptions that would help in everyday life. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u798	Thank you very much. Two people signed up to ask questions. Would any of you like to ask another question? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. So we start with Mr Tomasz Kostusia, the Civic Platform Club. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u799	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Amendment 10 adopted by the Senate adds an obligation to include in the list referred to in Article. 5 of the draft law, the date and number of the document confirming payment of excise duty in the territory of the country or the document confirming the absence of an obligation to pay excise duty in the territory of the country or a certificate certifying exemption from excise duty. As a result of this amendment, cars produced in Poland, which come off the production tape, will not be able to move on the roads using professional registration because they do not have paid excise duty, and the excise tax law does not provide for the possibility of exemption from excise duty of a new car produced in Poland. We also ask whether companies producing cars in Poland will be able to avoid paying excise duties on this basis. Please respond in writing as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u800	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u801	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I must say that my previous speaker, Mr Kostus, asked the exact question that I wanted to ask, so I will no longer repeat this question, but in fact such signals are coming from the social side. Or does the Ministry have some kind of custom solution, something that is not public, and action is being taken in this area? I would ask for a written answer to the question that my previous speaker asked, plus information about whether it might be, I would say, publicly classified actions that will lead to this being possible. Minister! I have no doubt that if the PiS club decided to support these amendments, they will probably be voted out. In view of the fact that the activity [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the full extent of your dependence on the operation of the electronic system, I have a question whether, if the system meets the requirements, let's call it generally, safety, you intend to restore the possibility of professional registration for companies that sell used vehicles. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u802	You're welcome. Please answer the questions of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction of Mr Marek Chodkiewicz. You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u803	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as excise duties are concerned, until the introduction of the IT system, these are the lists that businesses will issue after some time after receiving the registration number with a professional registration document. We are counting on this time, and it will be about 1 year, this excise duty will be paid. So this is what it's supposed to look like until the IT system is in place. [[In writing, please, Minister, okay? It's a clear interpretation.]] Of course, we'll give you the exact dates, what it looks like when it comes to... Sorry, I didn't remember the second question because it's late. [[I would also ask you to answer this question, which Member...]] So that's the same question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u804	Same question, Minister. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Marek Chodkiewicz: No problem. [[But also, Minister, the second question was whether, after the system was started, that is, when the conditions for which you are now accepting this blockade for companies selling used cars disappear. If there are no indications regarding these paper products, will you restore this possibility to companies that trade used cars?]] I just wanted to say two things. Actually, selling used cars is the fact that the registration papers are in the hands of the dealers. And they can be done on the same basis as before. There's no problem here. [[Yeah, but it kind of requires registration...]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] [[...which are imported from abroad...]] Oh, yeah. There's a problem with those actually with professional registrations. But the Senate amendment kind of narrowed it down, unfortunately narrowed it down, right, narrowed it down. On the other hand, I wanted to say one more thing: the bill also says that after a year we will carry out an evaluation. And that's more or less the date of the introduction of the IT system. So there's a chance we could sort of upgrade this whole professional registration system. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u805	The Kukiz Poselski Club15 accepts the proposed amendments and will vote in favour of the whole law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u806	This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 23 November this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Anyone else want to sign up? If no one's checking in, I'm closing the list. There is no Małgorzata Janowska. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz made a statement in writing. We will therefore ask Mr Andrzej Duda. [[Anthony.]] Anthony, I'm sorry. I'm so sorry. Mr Antoni Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u807	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On November 13th he visited Opole land, in particular in the district of Krapkowice the President of the Republic of Andrzej Duda. It was a visit from a series of visitations of counties in which he was not during the election campaign, and in which he promised that he would try to visit all the counties of our country. However, my speech concerns not so much a visit to Krapkowice, but the fact that the President extended the program by a very personal visit to the Silesian Stone, the birthplace of St. Jack Odrowie. It is a small town located approx. 30 km from Opole. However, he prides himself on the beautifully rebuilt Bishop's curia, namely the great effort of Fr. Archbishop Alfonso Nosol, then chief of Opole, the palace of Odrowążów. The palace survived World War II in an almost intact state. It was only partially plundered by the Russian troops in 1945. After the war, the children's home was arranged there, but in the late 1950s the Soviets returned to the nearby airport and the palace was dedicated to military housing. In 1970, leaving the army, after the previous destruction, the palace burned down, which burned to the ground. In 1990 the ruins of the palace were handed over to the Opole diocese. In 1994 the Bishop of Opole established the Sanctuary of St. Jack - Centre for Culture and Science of the Theological Faculty of the University of Opole. Since then, the rank of the Silesian Stone has increased, becoming a place more and more visited by numerous people, and numerous conferences and symposiums are held in the palace. However, the main magnet drawing to the Silesian Stone is the Sanctuary of St. Jack Odrowie. St. Jacek was born around 1183. This family is still born of Bl. Czesław and Bl. Bronisława. He studied at the Cracow cathedral school, which he graduated from in 1219. In 1220 he arrived in Rome, where at the request of St. Dominica joined the newly formed preaching order, or Dominicans. In the spring of 1221 he and his companions went to Poland, going through Bologna, Padua, Treviso, Austria, Czech Republic and Moravia. On his way he founded several Dominican Orders, among others. in Wroclaw. On 1 November 1221 he arrived in Krakow. Jacek Odrowąż became the superior of Polish Dominicans. In 1225 he arrived in Mazovia. In May 1228 he attended a meeting of the Dominican General Capital in Paris. In the fall of 1228 he went with his comrades to Russia towards Kiev. In 1232 the Provincial Chapter decided that Jacek Odrowąż should go to Prussia, convert the Prusai, pastoralize the knights who came to the crusade. After 1242, he returned to Cracow, where he spent the last years of his life, still evangelizing and preaching. He died on 15 August 1257. Its tomb is located in the Dominican Basilica of the Holy Trinity in Cracow. He was blessed in 1527. It was canonized on 17 April 1594 in the Basilica of St. Peter in Rome by Pope Clement VIII. St. Jacek is one of the greatest saints of the Polish Church. One could say today that he was a true European, as I mentioned earlier, he has traveled almost all over Europe. St. Jacek Odrowąż is the only saint in Poland, the only saint in this part of Europe, who was immortalized in the Berlin colonnade around St. Peter in Rome. That is why I thank the President of the Republic of Poland in particular from this place, that he has found time to make it so important for Poland to visit the place where this great saint was born, especially since the visit to the Silesian Stone was not planned before. For he haunted the grave of St. Jack in Cracow. So the visitation of his birth was a kind of complement. And finally, I'm going to quote Fr. Prime Minister Dr. Albert Glezer, curator of the sanctuary, who wished for the President, quote: The message of the President for Poland and for the Church, and above all for the other man, let it be supported by the message of this great man. End of quote. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-23-sejm-52-2.u808	Thank you very much for the smooth presentation of the MP's statement. And this was Mr Antoni Duda from the Law and Justice Club. Mr Andrzej Kryj from the Law and Justice Club, Mr Tomasz Kostusz from the Civic Platform Club and Mr Waldemar Andzel from the Law and Justice Club made statements in writing. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. By 24 November 2017, no later than 3 p.m. 9. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 0 min 50]]
