ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u1	Resume session. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: changes in the membership of the Senate committees Print No 656 and consider this item as item 21 of the first agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. I don't hear any objections. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 150th anniversary of the birth of Prof. Ignacy Mościcki, President of the Republic of Poland in the years 1926 and 1939. I would like to remind you that the draft resolution was tabled by a group of senators and is included in print No 624 and the committee's report In print No 624 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u2	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I address the Deputy Minister of the Interior and Administration who is with us in the Chamber. I have the honour to present to you on behalf of the Legislative Commission a report on the draft resolution on the 150th anniversary of the birth of Prof. Ignacy Mościcki, President of the Republic of Poland in the years 1926 and 1939. At its meeting on 14 November, the Commission examined the draft resolution submitted by the applicants at first reading, amended it and requested that the Senate adopt a uniform draft resolution on the 150th anniversary of the birth of Prof. Ignacy Mościcki, President of the Republic of Poland in the years 1926 and 1939. High Izbo, in connection with next year's jubilee of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, as we all know, we have adopted a special bill in Parliament under which President Andrzej Duda appointed the Committee of the National Cows of the 100th Anniversary of Recovering Independence of the Republic of Poland. The first formal meeting of the committee was held on 11 September at the Presidential Palace. However, the prelude to the celebration of the 100th anniversary is already practically this year, among others. thanks to outstanding Poles, who contributed to regaining freedom, and who, although representing different environments, represented different professions, political groups and social groups, connected one of the main goals of resurrecting the Polish state. This year we have celebrated or will celebrate among others. The anniversary of the 150th anniversary of the birth of Gen. Mariusz Zaruski, the pioneer of Polish sailing, the daunter, the skier, the creator of the Tatra Voluntary Rescue Service; Władysław Reymont, a writer, one of the leading representatives of the realistic trend in the prose of the Young Poland period, Nobel Prize laureate in literature for the 4th volume peasant epic We have recently adopted a special resolution on the occasion of the hundred and fiftyth anniversary of the birth of this great patriot; General Józef Dowbor-Muśnicki, commander of the First Polish Corps in Russia and commander of the Greater Poland Uprising; Gen. Stanisław Szeptycki, commander in the war of 1920 4. The Polish Army, Minister of Military Affairs in the second government of Wincent Witos, who on August 4, 1923, established the Święto Soldier of Poland celebrated on August 15; Maria Skłodowska-Curie, the only woman in the history honored with the Nobel Prize in two different fields of natural sciences; and finally on December 5, Marshal Józef Piłsudski, fleeing for the undisputed father of independence of Poland On this occasion the National Assembly was convened, during which the anniversary celebrations related to the anniversary of the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence will officially be inaugurated. In this pantheon of outstanding Poles there is also a hero of this resolution, which I have the honour of recommending on behalf of the Legislative Commission and on behalf of the applicants. This is Prof. Ignacy Mościcki, who was born on 1 December 1876. So we are 2 weeks before the round hundred and fiftyth anniversary of his birth in Mierzanów near Grudusk, in today's Ciechanov district, in northern Mazowsze. High Izbo, of course, in this pantheon of national heroes from this generation of independence I listed Poles from the year 1867 because this year is the round hundred and fiftyth anniversary of their birthday, but of course these heroes were much more than many of their other vintages, younger and older; we could sit here all day and remind them of their great merits. [[It's okay.]] Therefore, I will limit myself at this moment to reading the text of the proposed resolution, hoping that the High Senate will decide to adopt this resolution. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 150th anniversary of the birth of Prof. Ignacy Mościcki, President of the Republic of Poland in 1926-1939. On 1 December 2017, the 150th anniversary of the birth of Prof. Ignacy Mościcki, scientist, inventor, builder of the Polish chemical industry, independence policy, and in 1926-1939 the President of the Republic of Poland. Ignacy Mościcki was born on December 1, 1867 in a noble family with patriotic traditions in Mierzanów, Poland. Gruduska in northern Mazowsze. The grandfather of Ignacy Mościcki, Valenty Mościcki, participated in the November Uprising, and his father, Faustina Mościcki, and the uncles, Jan and Kazimierz, fought in the January Uprising. After graduating from real school in Warsaw in 1887, Ignacy Mościcki studied chemistry at the Ryska University of Technology, then continued his studies at Technical College in Finsbury in London, and in 1897, he began his studies in physics and mathematics at the University of Friburg. He started his research at the University of Fryburg, and since 1912 he was a professor of conventional inorganic chemistry and technical electrochemistry technology at the Lviv University of Technology. In 1925 he was elected Rector of the Lviv University of Technology, but he did not perform this function because in the autumn of 1925 he took over the Department of Technical Electrochemistry of the Warsaw University of Technology. Prof. Ignacy Mościcki was the author of more than 60 scientific works, more than 40 Polish and foreign patents, and his greatest scientific success was the development of an industrial method of obtaining nitric acid through the synthesis of nitrogen oxides in the electric arc. On his initiative and as a result of his actions in the years 1928 and 1930 the State Zakłady Zwięców Azotowych in Tarnów was built, and the district in which these plants were established was named Mościcami in his honor. Ignacy Mościcki, during his studies in Riga, was a member of the corporation.Velecja, became a member of the National League, and later also of the Polish Youth Union. During his studies in London he worked in an independent socialist movement, working with Józef Piłsudski since 1896. On 1 June 1926 he was elected President of the Republic of Poland by the National Assembly. His patriotic attitude is best borne out by the fact that when he became president, he gave the Polish State free of charge the rights to his inventions. The head office was held until September 30, 1939. At that time, while being interned in Romania, in order to maintain the continuity of the existence and operation of the state structures, he transferred his prerogatives Under the Constitution of April 1935, Władysław Raczkiewicz. In December 1939 he was granted permission to travel to Switzerland, where he spent the last years of his life. He died on October 2, 1946 at an emigration in Versoix near Geneva. On the 150th anniversary of the birth of Prof. Ignacy Mościcki The Senate of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to this outstanding inventor and scientist, one of the most important politicians of the interwar period, who played a major role in the recent history of Poland. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Jan Maria Jackowski to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u4	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal, the good tradition of the Senate is that we make various kinds of resolutions in which we try to distinguish someone, to commemorate, to give special importance to people who have been able to bind a professional life, daily with a pro-social, patriotic attitude. I think that this person was also President Ignacy Mościcki, who was also, let's add, a professor, as it says here. Only, Senator rapporteur, this resolution is one-sided. In fact, there are special merits here in terms, I would say, of technical sciences. This is true, but there is very little in this resolution to describe the patriotic attitude. Although it's mentioned, but as a function of duty... And then there's the other thing. Have you ever had one of yours? Because, as I understand it, you're the rapporteur. The attitude does not stem from some kind of opinion according to which it is considered that the period after 1926 in Poland is a period which is a departure from community building? ♪ Bo ♪ I'm just finishing my question. I don't want to take up time. Until 1926. Poland survived two miracles, i.e. Of course, the miracle of liberation or return to independence, but also the miracle of building a community. And since 1926. It was a little bit like our time, but we've been building this community longer. The building of the community was abandoned. How would you even know? This is the second question, and he replied to all those critics claiming that the figure of Ignacy Mościcki in the field of political activity after 1926 was not a model?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u5	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u6	Thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you very much, senator. The senator in that question actually answered himself. If we were to evaluate the political actions of President Mościcki, which, of course, is legitimate and probably each of us has an opinion on this subject. Perhaps then there would be differences in political views. And it just wouldn't be possible for this resolution to be so short, because then we'd go into a historical discourse. I was especially aware of what the senator was talking about, building or writing the text of the resolution, focused on showing attitude, environment, patriotic family, undisputed merits in the construction of the chemical industry in Poland and historical merit. Because in my opinion, the historical merit is that under the April Constitution... I can't remember which article gave me power. And thanks to such a transfer, Ambassador Raczkiewicz To whom the exhibition is dedicated here... I mean. As a marshal of the interwar Senate, he could assume the duties of the President of the Republic of Poland and may have been the continuation of the sovereign independent Republic, although the territory of Poland did not exist because it was divided between two states... in total possessive - No, there was a fourth contest. It's Stalin's Russia and Nazi Germany. From this point of view it was, of course, a conscious procedure on my part, Senator. However, as a historian, I can say that Ignacy Mościcki had two periods of his presidency: until the death of the marshal, which was until 12 May 1935, when his role was Let's call it that. It was relatively unmanageable, and after 1935, when the group of castle was mentioned. The castle because the President's residence was the Royal Castle in Warsaw. And this environment, its associates, was defined in this way. He was undoubtedly the president who introduced many positive social solutions, including. support for the families of many children was the godfather of the seventh sons. These are generally known cases, and I didn't want to add it to the text of the resolution anymore, because it would significantly extend. I hope my explanations have exhausted the senator's question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u7	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? There isn't. Thank you very much, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. I'm informing you that... You're welcome, Senator. Senator Krystian Probier. Your vote, sir. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u8	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Of course, I fully agree with the resolution that Senator Jackowski presented. But I would like to fill in some information from President Mościcki's life. Why do I feel authorized to do this? Well, a significant episode in the President's life concerns the Royal Huta, the town of Chorzów. As a native chord, I can't tell you that. I'd also like to return... [[Voice from the room: Do not say.]] [[Don't tell me, Professor.]] Don't tell me. Thank you for your attention. It means that my listeners are very focused on what I'm saying. [[Like students.]] Yes. Students don't sleep. I would like to say something about an important detail at the outset. Senator Jackowski has already mentioned this about Professor Mościcki's greatest achievement, nitrogen synthesis. I would like to point out that this patent must have been of interest to Albert Einstein, who we all know. The patent application was filed in Switzerland and because Mr Albert Einstein was a patent spokesperson, he must have come into contact with this project. I would also like to add that Professor Mościcki's patents on oil distillation, oil and water separation are also of great importance. Get to the point. The common history of President Mościcki and Chorzow is primarily related to the so-called. Chorzowskie Azotami and began in 1922, probably on 4 July. Mr. President, the professor took over the management at the nitrogen plant. These plants were created in 1916 and were among the most modern in the world. The professor arrived at the factory before Poland formally took over Upper Silesia. These were times of stormy greetings of Polish troops, cavalry of General Szeptycki in Silesia. In those days, the professor appeared in nitrogen plants and began to work. What did you come across, Professor Mościcki? Well, he came across a completely immobilized industrial plant. Only three engineers are left with engineers and chemists of about 50 people. Of the staff of 250 officials, no more than 50 are left. The documentation was destroyed, the equipment was disassembled, the equipment and raw materials were missing for further production. Professor Mościcki, as it has been written, met with the crew, a group of 700 and 800 people, and presented a plan to launch the factory. His long speech met with a rather cautious reception. The professor thought that maybe what he was talking about didn't get to the employees. And he said, "Would you like me to tell you in German?" And then someone said: no, more in Polish, we understand everything. It kind of eased the relationship with the employees, made them warm a little bit, but not quite yet. They really improved, changed 180 degrees when the crew noticed that you were prof. Mościcki comes to work in the working kit every morning, looks after all the devices, to all employees he turns with great respect and sits at night with the inż. Zalewski. The crew commented on it at the time: Fest are sitting with Zalewski, they are working. That's prof's attitude. Mościcki caused the crew to take his side. Imagine, despite the situation I described, the factory started in two weeks. According to previous owners, this factory had no right to continue functioning, propaganda said that bad handling of this factory would cause the explosion, blowing up the entire factory. But the previous owners didn't predict that they'd be dealing with Professor Mościcki, who could do it. I believe that Professor Mościcki should be among our greatest inventors, or actually innovators. 'Cause now we're saying it's an innovation time. The worst for this factory was the years of the crisis in 1923/1924, but Prof. Mościcki, thanks to his knowledge, was able to reconstruct, rebuild certain devices that were consumed, and increase the production mainly of nitrogen fertilisers. Its great invention was the improved design of the carbide oven. This increased the production of nitrites. From 70,000 t to more than 170 thousand t per year. Professor Mościcki turned out to be the husband of the providence as we speak of her, the Azotian factory. Its exact name is the State Nitrogen Union Factory in Chorzów. Working in this factory was an honor and a nobility for employees. Everyone felt very valued and sought this job. It was said that working in this factory was such a chorus paradise. You can also talk about the uprising of the so-called. Professor Mościcki's school, which focused several dozen engineers and chemists. Professor Mościcki has appointed another great figure from our history as his successor. In 1923, the director of these Chorzów Azots became the later Deputy Prime Minister, Eng. Eugeniusz Kwiatkowski. It should also be added that in 1926 a new product was created in the factory The Croatian nitrophoska, which entered the Polish market, and Poland itself from the importer of fertilisers became a significant exporter at that time. Just a few more words. Just a moment more, please, for the year 1927. I'm sure the signs are still working today. In 1927 President Mościcki made a great trip to Silesia and of course he visited the Royal Huta, which is Chorzów. He was at the opening of a great colony of single-family houses... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...located on the border... [[It's been ten minutes.]] Already? Okay, I gotta go. [[Voices from the hall: But no, please still...]] [[Please finish, Professor.]] [[Would you like to finish using your five minutes?]] Yeah, yeah. [[You're welcome.]] [[This is all very interesting. Dear Professor, please...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Well, then I can't say no. [[Applause]] [[I'm just keeping order.]] On 2 October 1927 President Mościcki was at the opening of the most modern stadium in the Royal Hut. It was the Stadium of Physical Education and Military Adoption. 8,000 viewers, 2,000 under the indoor tribune, tennis courts, athletic treadmill, handball field, Olympic pool. By the way, in 1931 at this stadium, Paavo Nurmi won with our Janusz Kusocinski; I just didn't read the distance it was. In a thousand nine hundred and twenty... [[A javelin toss...]] 5 or 10 kilometers, I'm not sure. In that year he also unveiled the monument of the insurgent in the Royal Huta, which was then near the post office; now it is in another place. In 1937, the mine of the King, which has existed in Silesia since 1791. Part of the mining field was separated in the form of the mine of the Mayor of Mościcki. This name, the President, without any mention of the "Mościcki," also functioned after the war. All the sick people knew what president it was about. The mining tower, built in innovative technology from the reinforced concrete, remained after this mine until today. Probably... The nasty ones say that's why she stayed, that there was trouble tearing her down and blowing her up. At the moment it is an object on the trail of technical monuments in Upper Silesia. And now a few words about President Mościcki's villa in Chorzów. It was created in the second half of the 19th century, it was a Renaissance villa. The president liked it so much that when he was in Warsaw, he ordered him to build a second villa. Whether it's a legend or a fact... He lived in this villa in 1922 and 1923. In later years, after World War II, this villa took over various functions of the kindergarten, then it was a building belonging to the Polish Teachers' Association, and then it was ruined. In 2004 this villa was renovated, bought by a private entrepreneur, there is still a hospital, a hospital. This owner didn't know what he was buying, but over time, when he found out, he created a souvenir office in this villa from President Mościcki. And now for real, Mrs. Marshal, in conclusion, personal reflections. [[Go ahead.]] Well, at that stadium I mentioned, I learned how to swim, watched football games... [[Mr. Senator, I'm not counting the minutes anymore.]] ...handball. And here may I surprise you or some of you that I remember when my dad and I used to go to the stadium to watch games and watch a handball game, but an 11-person game on a big field. Today could be... [[I played that game, too.]] [[And they survived? And the players survived?]] And, ladies and gentlemen... [[...with Mościcki, right.]] ...I'd like to conclude by saying that my progress in primary school allowed me to submit papers to a chemical school in the Azoth area without additional exams. But for reasons like today, environmental... The family decided that due to such poor environmental conditions My older brother worked there and after a year's work he had on his briefcase about 1 cm of dust formed in that factory I'm going to go to school in another part of Chorzow, to a mining tech school, so to speak. And I met the President's villa personally during the New Year's Eve party, where I've been several times in that villa. [[Applause]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] She was still in pretty good shape back then. [[But no alcohol?]] And now a few reflections already... [[Applause]] [[Bravo, bravo, Professor.]] It's at your very request. [[Great.]] Well, Azotha today... At its peak, these plants had about 3,000 employees. At the moment they belong to the Grupa Azota Puławy, in 2005 there were about 100 employees. This is the result of what we've all been experiencing, this so-called. restructuring. There is no stadium, but there is a supermarket there, which I am very dissatisfied with. The iron tower... I've already mentioned her. [[Mrs. Marshal...]] The Monument of the Insurgent is in another place, and there is a statue of Gerard Cieślik with a bench on which you can sit. [[How many hours do you have?]] There is also the street of President Mościcki in Chorzów, around Silesian Stadium. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u9	Thank you very much. [[Where's the rapporteur?]] Ladies and gentlemen... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz and Senator Krystian Probie exchange a hug]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet! [[That's how we're fraternizing.]] Quiet, Mr. Chairman. [[I'm sorry, but emotions...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I see. So that you can tame your emotions. [[We have such a young...]] [[I'm older, so I have the right to congratulate the professor.]] [[That's too bad, 'cause I wanted to do it, too.]] I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. High Izbo, we are voting on the draft resolution on the 150th anniversary of the birth of Prof. Ignacy Mościcki, President of the Republic of Poland in the years 1926 and 1939. Who among your senators is in favour of the project? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 70 senators voted, 70 votes for, no one was against and no one held back. [[Voting No 1]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 150th anniversary of the birth of Prof. Ignacy Mościcki, President of the Republic of Poland in the years 1926 and 1939. [[My mom was dancing with that professor...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] We're coming... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We proceed with the review of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Register of Population. The text of the Act is contained in print No 632, and the report of the Commission In print No 632 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Jerzy Wcisła, to submit a report to the committee. Please, Senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, why don't we wait for the senators who have to leave the room for a while. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u10	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The law I will report may not arouse such positive emotions, but in general it is a law which, in the Sejm, and in the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, did not divide neither Members nor Senators. In the Seym it was accepted by almost all Members; in the vote of 41 Members from various groups it was against. In the Senate, the bill was adopted at the committee meeting. In the vote on the amendment that I am going to talk about, only two senators abstained. It was a government bill. The Act raises no legislative objections. The Act is to enter into force on 1 January 2018 and is compatible with European law. The cost of introducing changes resulting from the adoption of the law was estimated at PLN 550 thousand. The main objective of the Act is to abandon the planned liquidation of the reporting obligation in 2010. This elimination of the reporting obligation was due to enter into force on 1 January 2018. The designer considered that the reporting obligation, i.e. information about the address of the citizens, was an important and useful tool from the perspective of the tasks of the state and local government. There are many arguments for maintaining the reporting obligation. They relate to public security, universal military duty, social security, pensions, statistics, migration observation, education organisations, elections, referendums, court cases. These are just examples of areas where having a report makes it easier to manage. The Act also sets out certain provisions relating to the transmission of the PESEL number and the registration regulations. Introduces new solutions to simplify reporting procedures, among others. all reporting activities can be carried out electronically, documents can be attached in the form of scans. If the offices do not have such documents in electronic form, anyone will be able to scan the documents and send it by electronic means. The principle of giving the number PESEL to all foreigners who check in for permanent or temporary stays in Poland is also introduced, except for short-term and transit stays. The Act extends the period of exemption of foreigners from reporting obligations from 14 to 30 days and harmonises the reporting obligation for citizens of Poland and the European Union to 3 months. These are the most important solutions that this law introduces. The only controversy that arose during the committee's meeting was that in the previous law there were guidelines concerning the content of the regulation to the bill, which assumed that the forms would be made in Polish and English, and this provision from the draft law disappeared. Government representative claims that this does not cause such a situation that these forms cannot be made in Polish and English, but in the senators' opinion it would be better if such a record were found. The absence of a record makes the introduction of such bilingual forms essentially the will of an official and not the result of a provision that is in force. This amendment was accepted by the committee and two senators abstained. That's all I wanted to say. On behalf of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, I recommend the adoption of a bill amending the law on public records with an amendment I mentioned, which introduces an obligation to make forms in Polish and English. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome, Senator. Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u12	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, was it mentioned at the meeting that, in the previous term, the bill was amended, on the basis of which the box with the place of check-in disappeared from the model of the identity card? That's when it triggered a huge discussion, like the change that was probably proposed by the government of Donald Tusk, not Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz... There was an extensive discussion on this issue, which would cause a burden for citizens, because until now, as long as this was the case, the citizen would come to the office or anywhere and had a certified place of check-in in evidence, and after the removal of this box in the evidence, it turned out that there was a need for an additional certificate from the office. It seems that a fee is also paid to obtain such a certificate, which is an additional administrative complication. So I have a question for you. If we confirm that the registration will not be abolished by this law as an obligation incumbent on the citizen, has the possibility of changing the model of the identity card been considered in order to return the box with the place of check-in been considered? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u13	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u14	Mr. Senator, there is a provision in the bill concerning the data to be provided in these forms, and the address of the stay is included there, so that the law introduces such an obligation. And at the committee meeting, we didn't discuss any previous history issues. With an alternative in the form of some registers or with other forms of resolution of the problem of records.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u15	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? No. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Today we have Minister Sebastian Gwałek, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? You're welcome. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Sebastian Chwatek: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u16	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, I just briefly... As the Senator rapporteur said, who briefly described the project's assumptions, the project restores the reporting obligation. You could also say the opposite: the provisions relating to the abolition of reporting obligations in Poland are repealed. Several times the deadline for abolishing this obligation has been shifted, and now there is a complete departure from this idea. The idea does not work, under Polish conditions it is unacceptable. In fact, in all countries of the European Union it is a duty, the need to enter, add to one of the registers the address of the check-in. In Poland, we are back to what was in normal circulation a few years ago. In order to make it easier for citizens to register, we are making a change, we are giving a new opportunity to register, i.e. to apply for electronic check-in. I'm sure it'll make it easier... to reduce the nuisance involved. There were suggestions to change the name of the reporting obligation to another, but since there is a school obligation... The name itself does not cause any negative connotations. I think we're all used to making such an act. This is not in our view, in my opinion, too burdensome. Besides, we don't check in every day, we do it every once in a while. This obligation does not result in too much burden for the citizen, and the facilitations we are introducing will certainly encourage us to update our registration data. Thanks to the reporting obligation, both local authorities and the state have the possibility to verify, for example, grants to local authorities. Self-governments have the opportunity, as has already been the case here, to shape education policies, to place crèches. On the basis of the registration of the PESEL register, a representative standard shall be established on the basis of which the division of mandates is subsequently carried out on the territory of the voivodships or electoral districts. All of this is conducive to some kind of systematicisation and it seems that without a reporting obligation, the state would in fact be a little blind, would not have full data on its citizens. Novum in this act is the introduction of a reporting obligation for foreigners, for foreigners. As far as this obligation is concerned, we move from 14 to 30 days... I think that the situation in Europe and in the world in some way makes it necessary to have data on the movement of persons, their stay in Poland, regardless of their origin in the sense of nationality. I think all these changes should have a positive effect on... It is about security and all other solutions that enable local governments to shape their own social and educational policies. You gain insight, you can gain confidence about your citizens' reserve in the area, and thus you can prepare yourself for the cases in which you have to step in. I ask the High House to accept the project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u17	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Krzysztof Elephant. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u18	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, in our materials I have such information that the law will lead to the liquidation of the residence registers of foreigners, in which data on the stay in the territory of the Republic of Poland of foreigners have been collected so far, which have not been given PESEL numbers on the basis of previous regulations. What does that mean? And second question. Have you received any signals that at the same addresses This is often the case, for example. 2-room apartments in blocks Is it registered or indicates a given place as a place of residence of dozens or dozens of people, just foreigners? Have these signals reached you, and how do we respond to something like this? Are we monitoring this? How's it look? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u19	And you're Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome. And then the senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u20	Thank you very much. I would have handled the subject that I was discussing when I asked the Senator of the rapporteur. I'm glad there's a way out of this idea to eliminate the report. Of course, the soul would want this report not to be reported, but on the other hand not only in the relations of the citizen of the state, state offices or agenda, or banks, it is an important element, but also in relations between citizens who, for example. they conclude civil contracts between themselves, and usually include the address of residence in such contracts. And the question of verifying this address, which is an important element of the possible consequences of this agreement, is important. That's why I have a question for the Minister. Isn't the government considering a possible introduction from some point on? I know that there are costs associated with this A return to the entry of the "place of residence" column in the model of identity card, what would simply make life easier for citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u21	And Mr. Senator Włosowicz. You're welcome. And then we'll ask the Minister for answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have a question about homeless people. In February this year, there were lists of homeless people, which resulted in 33,000 homeless people in the country. Of course, there are various types of estimates of other institutions which say that they can be even about a government of more than, to 300 thousand, but official data from the study carried out at night probably from 8 to 9 February talk about 33 thousand people. This homelessness is defined differently, among others. Also so that a homeless person is someone who is checked in, but in a building that is not fit to live. If the Minister could make a point. to whether this bill, this reporting issue in any way affects the problem of homeless people... What would that be like?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u23	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u24	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start by asking you about the liquidation of the registers kept by the municipalities. Yes, these registers under this law will be... well, they will be lifted by the government's obligation to keep these data in the central register of PESEL. Of course, nothing is lost, as if we are increasing the certainty of this data. In fact, local authorities often kept these registers simply on paper, keeping a notebook, it was nowhere connected, it was in no way consolidated with state registers, and even with registers, so to speak, municipal. Often it was simply a paper record, which did not allow in any way in the field to verify the actual residence of the person in question, because it was necessary to know which municipality to look in. Now all this will be in the register of PESEL, it will be a reference register for these data and every foreigner staying longer than 30 days in Poland should be in this register, it will have a PESEL number assigned, even if it is in Poland temporarily without wishing to stay permanently or de facto in Poland. That's the element. The question of returning to appear on the form, on the ID card sheet of the address of the check-in. Mr. Senator pointed that out. This obligation has been removed in the Personal Evidence Act, not in this Act. It was an element that the previous government had planned to introduce in connection with the removal of the reporting obligation, so it also removed such a record from the identity card. Work is currently underway to develop technical assumptions for the preparation of evidence with a chip. One of the data stored in the chip will be the address of the check-in, and the offices will have the appropriate readers. Institutions that will need to read such data, even in health care, will have readers to download this information. Will the graphical writing itself on the proof sheet be necessary? This is also an element for discussion, because there will be a little less space, I will honestly say, for such data recording, if there is still a chip on the blank, built into the blank chip. So this is to consider, possibly appropriate location, perhaps it is a matter of giving up other data to make it clear. There was also the issue of homelessness. This bill does not fully respond to this demand. It is more necessary to activate local authorities who would have to verify this actual homelessness in some way. whether to determine, for example, how these persons could be recorded on their territory. Would the help houses, the accommodation facilities, be a suitable place for these people to be registered at this address? There was another question about... [[...these many people, foreigners at one address.]] Yes. Yeah, well, that's the kind of information that comes up. As if there is no ban, in a sense there are no restrictions on the number of persons checked in. Some standards appear, for example. where social housing is transferred or received. If the municipality gives social housing, the apartment must meet the criterion of a suitable area per person, but in the other direction it does not necessarily work. Of course, this is an element that is worth examining, and it is worth considering whether there are real restrictions. I have the impression that it might interfere a little with freedom in the form of ownership of real estate, well, checking in does not mean that these people are staying in a given place, but it is a situation that raises doubts, for example, in terms of security, because these are elements which may suggest that the actual purposes of reporting these people are of a different kind.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u25	Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka, then Senator Jackowski and Senator Elephant. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u26	Thank you. I'm gonna put out some questions from a lot of people who come to me with them. I'm moving them to this House's meeting. What are those people supposed to do who changed ID for all kinds of reasons and no longer have an address in their ID card? They don't have a check-in address, they don't have a mail address. They are experiencing many difficulties at the moment, e.g. when receiving consignments on the basis of an avisa or when delivering court requests, etc., because there are errors. The question is, therefore, whether, pending the entry into force of the law on which we are currently proceeding, these persons should change the identity card asking for the address of residence to be entered in this proof, is PESEL sufficient now? They have such evidence, but it extends the time to check whether the citizen receiving the package on the basis of an avisa actually lives at the address on the call or on the envelope or elsewhere. How are these people supposed to act right now before the bill comes into force and settle this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u27	Minister, just a moment, please. Mr. Senator Jackowski, Mr. Senator Elephant, and then I will give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u28	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I have a question to make specific about this record. You mentioned that there was work on the use of electronics, that is, these chips, and that there would be readers. But many institutions that operate in economic circulation will not have access to such a reader. Well, I don't know if the banks will have it or not. I also do not know if any other companies will have it and, above all, citizens will not have access to such a reader. Wouldn't it be worth considering going back to the registration address on the proof sheet so that anyone who shows this evidence can easily disclose his or her permanent registration address in relations and with state institutions and with other citizens? That's the first line. Second line. Will the data be stored in this chip... Will it be possible to enter data that the citizen will simply not know about? Will this kind of data be encrypted in a chip? Because that would raise my obvious concern. And the third line. With this electronic reporting... I understand that this is done by e-mail, but the rules of reporting do not change, i.e. must be the consent of the owner of the premises, the manager of the premises, the housing community or the administration if the premises are municipal property. Well, let's say this: there must be permission from the owner of the premises to report to any person in the apartment. Yes or no? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u29	Senator Krzysztof Elephant and then Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. For a moment, I'm going back to the question of this excessive density in some premises. Indeed, Minister, you're right. This is about safety and even security in fellow residents, e.g. the tenants of the block. It's not even about the fact that these foreigners are only registered on paper, but it's about the fact that there's a huge rotation. In many cases, there is a very large rotation. Some kind of want to confirm that they have the right to be in a given place, and this raises legitimate concerns about why suddenly in their block such a large rotation of these people, these aliens. And I am glad that the Minister has pointed out and that it will be examined in some way. And my question is also about tax issues. On the occasion of the changes in this law, did you take into account tax situations, tax payments? It will soon start again fighting municipalities to make citizens aware of their taxes where they live, not where they are checked in or where they are checked in, not where they are staying. Isn't it time to finally unify it in some way, e.g. So that the tax is paid where the report is? Because just being around, even temporary... Of course, it may give tax authorities the right to pay tax here, but it often gives rise to many misunderstandings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u31	Please, Minister. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u32	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll answer it one at a time. Mrs. Senator, it is a pity that the obligation to enter an address on the I.D. sheet has been repealed at all. Therefore, there is no way to even ask him to be on the new banner. or on a blank used to exchange evidence. Unfortunately, according to the regulations, this is impossible. And that's also related to that senator's question about whether or not we're going to bring it back. Well, I guess it's still to consider. The final decision as to the shape of the new proof sheet with the chip and what would still be there, when it comes to graphics, is not decided. This element is to be discussed, but I think that after this discussion I can say that it is clear that there is a need. Because if the senator and the senator are paying attention to this by referring to citizens' opinions or questions, that means it is necessary. Of course, it is possible to verify this by the PESEL number. In fact, this number should be enough for citizens, but we know it's not always like this. Especially in relationships between individuals, this is a little difficult, and sometimes we meet with such a situation when someone is glad that they have old evidence, because they still have a registered address for the check-in, and in the new one they don't. [[And the kids.]] And the kids. [[And the course of work.]] Well, not necessarily, I don't think he should have that kind of evidence. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Princess.]] Yes. Anyway, I think the restoration of this record on the blank is something to consider, and we're gonna be seriously considering that. Now, back to the issue of chip and content, information, I'm going to say that this is related to the technical parameters of the chip itself and the ability to collect data in it. For some obvious reasons, there will be a small unit when it comes to size. Of course, technology is moving forward and I think that every year even a small area will be able to put an increasing amount of data, but at the moment I don't recall any data that the citizen will not know about. This will be the data that will be able to write down various institutions, but also data that help the citizen in contact with the institutions to which he is addressing. Because that's the idea of harmonising this system, and so that everyone can actually... I think that banks will be interested at some point in order to benefit from this, and they still insist on accessing various types of state bases in order to function more efficiently, which also helps or does not necessarily help citizens, depending on their point of view. And the question that the senator mentioned, which is density. I think that this is also something to be considered, and we need to look at this situation, especially because of internal security, but not only. I think the real estate managers themselves should be interested to know how many people actually live there, because that's often what charges are made for, like garbage, for an elevator, etc. So this is actually a problem and we declare that we will look into it. Of course, local authorities will need to be used for this so that cooperation in this area is very good. [[Taxes...]] Tax issues. Of course, it's a different law. There was no possibility of change in these laws. This is also due to the need to cooperate with the Ministry of Finance and the expectations of the Ministry of Finance. Right now, as we know, we're making tax returns where our place of residence is, not check-in, because it's not necessarily the same. The fact is, as Senator Elephant mentioned, It is the tendency of local governments to call on their residents to report to pay taxes where they actually use the infrastructure. We are also aware that it is often simply the laziness of residents, citizens or the unwillingness to visit the office, hence the possibility of electronic registration. And it will not be registered by e-mail, because it would be, I think, rather unprofessional, but of course using ePUAP and a trusted profile. If someone has a trusted profile, using the ePUAP system, they can submit an application in electronic form and this is a way to guarantee data. And, of course, the owner's right to consent to the report remains. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u33	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Minister? [[Yes, Jerzy Czerwinski.]] Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u34	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have two completely different questions. The first concerns the transitional provisions of this law, in particular those relating to the possibility of keeping in the form of a criminal register of residence of foreigners. He'll be eliminated. And now here's the thing: since it's being kept in a form of record, I understand that this liquidation has to rely on the very end of fingering it into electronics. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Sebastian Gwałek: On entry.]] That's one thing. Second, or art. 2, describing what is to happen to the residence registers of foreigners, is it complete? Please note that such a register can be extinguished if it is closed or simply His data will no longer be up-to-date. Then it's transferred to the archives, or after 10 years to the archives... The question is, what happens when he's not locked up and the 10 years are over. What is the municipality supposed to do with such a register then? I don't know if I'm making myself clear. Well, I guess we should lock him up somehow. That's what I figured. That's one thing. The second concerns a matter that may be marginal, but sometimes appears. I met with it once; there was even a rather fathomable article about it. That is, whether the postal code is part of the address. The address is kind of I don't know what you'd call an official term. Please note that the address is situated by means of official acts and the postal code by means of an act of one of the companies, formally speaking. Right? And this can easily change, nothing prevents a new division of land and a change of codes. Here's the question. From what's here. This is not a matter of the law, but of the mother's law, it appears that the postal code is part of the address. Is this really the case, and should it be so?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u35	Senator Jan Rulewski. There you go. And then you're Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Now, Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u36	Minister, you are rightly responding to various doubts about the identity card in the current version or extended to the chip. I read the statements of your colleague, the Minister of Streżyńska, who has a completely different concept. I don't know exactly. It's just a project. But I think the I.D. would be a cell phone, a cell phone. So it would be more than evidence with a chip, because the cell gives much more possibilities. Is there any harmonisation of this work? Well, two different speeches are coming from the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u38	Thank you very much. I just want to make sure... The Minister at the end said so in one sentence that the rules do not change, that the owner of the premises must consent to the check-in... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Sebastian Chwatek: Yes, yes.]] ...persons in this place he owns. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Sebastian Glory: This topic is not touched.]] That doesn't change at all. Thank you very much. If I can confirm that, I don't have any more questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u39	Minister, you are hereby voted in.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u40	Mr. Senator, I read it that way. There is a 10-year period during which this register must be closed and transferred to the archives. At that time, the data must be entered in a new register... that is, not in a new one, but should be placed in appropriate categories within the PESEL system. Handing over paper documents because they can't say how it's sometimes shown in the media, landing somewhere in a dumpster... They must be archived. And there's a rule that says you have to put them in the archives, so there's no doubt about what to do about it. If they were conducted in such a form of notebook, they may, so to speak, lie down for the next 30 years in a desk drawer, but we would prefer that they be in a safe place, like all sensitive data, because these are sensitive data of the citizen. That's how you read it. During this period all this must be, I would say, closed. It's a matter of evidence on your cell phone. It's an ease, it's one of the elements of mapping evidence, but it's not: instead. Because we can imagine there's no power, no mast range, so to put it this way, it's a personal ID. As I say, this is one of the facilitations, such as. in the case of electronic banking and mobile payment. Mapping the I.D. data... Of course, you have to build an appropriate, secure system to make this data sure, because we can imagine technical problems that could prevent, so to speak, giving faith to the information contained on the mobile phone display. I think that's all the questions... [[It's about the mail code.]] Oh, yeah, the code. The code is part of the address. The fact that codes sometimes change, for example. The new post office receives an address or a new housing estate receives a new code, which is often the case. But it is in a lower order document, because it seems that in the form of a regulation addresses are issued... The company, i.e. de facto Poczta Polska, cooperates in the determination of address codes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u41	I have a question for you, Minister. Should it be so that the postal code, which is independent of the administration, is part of the address?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u42	I think you might want to think about it. [[Maybe it's worth thinking about.]] Of course, we can think about it. Until now, this issue has not been raised as a problem or put into question. To be honest, even within the framework of the internal and inter-ministerial arrangements, there were no such comments. The authorities did not raise this either during their work. Perhaps we can lean on this element. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u43	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Minister, thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Sebastian Gwałek: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. You signed up for Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Because he's not here... [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] Is it? [[Mrs. Marshal, I signed up, so here I am.]] Mr. Senator, where have you been? [[I spoke to Minister Chaputovich.]] I see. I'd like to invite you to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u44	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Dear Representatives of the Government! This law is, of course, a technical act. It's a good thing she's being processed. Solutions that the government proposes, among others. the possibility of electronic reporting, ordering issues related to reporting obligation and rationalising legislation to, say, life, this is, of course, a step in the right direction. In my brief speech, I would like to draw attention to the consequences of a certain frivolity from the past when the doctrine of closing the report was announced. I am talking about the activities of the two previous governments, Prime Minister Kopacz, but above all, Prime Minister Tusk. Of course, from a social point of view, from the point of view of comfort in life, a certain freedom of movement for citizens, a sense of such freedom... I agree with the fact that, in those circumstances, the change in the place of permanent check-in involved the exchange of an identity document, which obviously meant waiting and then giving a new ID number to banks and all institutions. It was a rather complicated issue. Of course, there were arguments in favour of simplifying this situation, but at that time in the debate, even in the previous term, I paid attention to the fact that it would still cause nuisance for citizens. And the practice of these... I can't remember when that bill was... about four or five years ago. However, the burden associated with the amendment of the principle of certification by proof of identity of the place of permanent registration of the holder of the document is considerable and entails costs. Let me remind you that there are a number of institutions that are demanding a current certificate of the place of check-in. It's not enough for someone to get a certificate like this once, and they're gonna use it for, say, a year. This involves a fee to be paid at the municipality's office in order to obtain an appropriate certificate. That's why I think... It is good that Minister Gwałek is here with us, who, as I understand it, oversees work on these issues in the Ministry of Interior and Administration and has an important influence on the direction of thinking in this area. Thank you very much, Minister, for the declaration that the government will take into account the results of this discussion. Please note that the opposition representative, Senator Boris-Damięcka, was similarly concerned, which shows that the problem exists objectively. I therefore hope that in the new banner... I know it's a long-term process, it takes time. After all, this record in the evidence should be placed in such a way that... how will this technical solution be solved? This is a secondary matter and I would not like to comment on it. But while we're talking technology, I'd like to draw attention to the chip issue. Minister, chips are a subject, I would say, extremely delicate because of the right to privacy, because of sensitive data that will be encoded in this chip, and on a whole range of other elements. I mean, I trust that, of course, all care will be maintained in this work, and there will be electronic safeguards so that the wrong person cannot reach this data, but unfortunately, Snowden's scandal is no longer going to mention others, showing whether it has given contemporary people much to think about what it means to collect data, process data, access to data. I recommend here a very special Let's imagine a hypothetical situation: there's an X citizen who suffers from chronic illness. Of course, this information can be obtained by having access to his health card, which will probably also be chipd. What will happen if the employer gets this information? Then he'll be able to say, think that this employee doesn't hope because he's chronically ill. Such an employee may in some way be discriminated against, ignored in promotions, limited in his path... There may even be an action to fire this employee, because he is an employee from the employer's point of view, let's call it inefficient. And there would be a lot of different cases, which is why I think there must be very clear criteria when it comes to accessing this information. Unfortunately, they support this and have access to these data people who are not always fully responsible. We all, as we are in this House, are flooded, even in private mailboxes, with all kinds of commercials that... by trading different databases. I also get this information: 3.5 million e-mails, you can buy a subscription for business purposes. It's rubbing against the boundaries of the law, it's out-of-law. This is an area that requires extremely great care, thought and caution. Minister, let me be frank: I am a conservative in these matters. For me, a document that is a physical document, not a byte document, not a cyberspace document, is a document. I say this as a practicing historian... It is a source, it is an excellent element that has served for generations somehow. Different royal gliders in the Middle Ages, different authorizations... You could give a whole history of identity documents out of this tribune, but of course that's not my goal. My goal is to draw attention to the dangers behind the new technologies, the fairly common possibility for the wrong people to reach our data. And here's the key. Will this chip be connected to the GPS system and on the basis of this chip will it be possible to indicate where the document is located in space, ergo: also its owner is located? This is a question that would require a clear and precise answer. Bottom line is, I'm pretty much in favour of this bill that cleans up... I've been trying to draw attention to some aspects, and in the case of writing in the proof sheet... With regard to the restoration of the "place of permanent residence," as it seems to be called, I would call on the government to take into account this argument which was put forward in the course of the discussion in further work on the new document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u45	Thank you very much, Senator. It informs that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe on the status of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe in the Republic of Poland, signed in Warsaw on 28 June 2017. The text of the Act is contained in print No 638 and the report of the Commission In print No 638 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Rafał Silesian, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u46	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! I took part in the presentation to the High Senate of the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe on the status of this organisation in the Republic of Poland, signed in Warsaw on 27 June 2017. The contents of the Act are basically merely to express the agreement of the High House to ratify the agreement by the President. The Agreement confers legal personality on the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. It grants privileges and immunities in respect of persons, facilities, assets and documents. It also regulates several additional issues, such as using flags and using ciphers. At the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union on 8 November 2017, the Act raised neither questions nor controversy nor any objections from the legislator. I therefore recommend that the High House adopt this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u47	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would anyone like to ask such a question? No. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Jacek Chaputowicz is with us. Would the Minister like to speak on this bill? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Jacek Chaputowicz: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u48	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would just like to add to the rapporteur's report that this is the result of the administration and the government that is ordering our relations with the OSCE. To date, the issue of immunities and privileges of OSCE officers working in Warsaw was based on the resolution of the Council of Ministers of 2 May 1991. However, since the entry into force of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 2 April 1997, there should be a different legal basis. Therefore, it was necessary to conclude an agreement with the organization in order to give the legal basis for its functioning in Warsaw. Poland wants international organisations to place their representations in Warsaw, so it was important to regulate this legal status. The issue is not debatable in terms of substance, and some negligence of the previous authorities, 20 years old, has now been overtaken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u49	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Mr. Senator Jackowski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u50	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, the bill is obvious... means ratification is of course obvious. However, I would like to know whether it is so that only those representatives of the OSCE who are accredited in Warsaw will benefit from immunity, or whether all persons associated with the OSCE have the automatic immunity. And in both cases, I would ask for an indication of the number of people that this immunity may apply to. How many of these OSCE representatives, more or less, I'm not talking about the exact state of office, but the government of greatness... How many diplomats and OSCE employees will be working in Warsaw? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u51	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u52	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question: has the OSCE been involved in this recently observed among some European institutions Well, let's put it straight. A kind of chase against the government of the Republic of Poland in general... In particular, this committee, which is... This organization, which is also located in Warsaw...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u53	Are there any more questions? There isn't. Minister, you are hereby voted in. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u54	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer the question of Senator Jackowski, the ODIHR representative office, the Office of Democratic Institutions and Human Rights in Warsaw, is the largest international institution located in our country. The agreement regulates the granting of the legal personality and legal capacity of the OSCE and its institutions, i.e., the whole organisation, the granting of privileges and immunities to the OSCE and its officials in the territory of the Republic of Poland, and the definition of the scope of these privileges. The idea is to make international officers feel safe in the field of human rights. There may be a suspicion that if the host State fails to respect human rights, then these officers will be able to feel certain that, so to speak, the danger of being insecure. The granting of these immunities and privileges therefore strengthens the legal basis and the certainty of the operation of the organisation itself. That's what the organization was trying to do. There were even discussions, unofficial, about moving headquarters to another country. The fact that the Government of Law and Justice grants them, and no other government has ever done so before, shows that there is no concern, in its assessment, about the standards of respect for human rights in Poland. I don't have accurate data on how many officers work in Warsaw. The contribution to the organization is about PLN 5.5 million per year from the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. They are primarily intended to provide this organization with a seat. The OSCE itself operates in the OSCE Member States. Analyzes In particular, the office we are talking about today in Warsaw, the Office of Democratic Institutions and Human Rights The state of respect for human rights is at hand. To answer Senator Czerwinski's question, I would like to say that the OSCE is actually preparing a report, as far as I can remember, still during the discussion and project phase. on standards of respect for human rights. As far as I know, this report repeats certain thesis, which also appear in reports from other international organisations. But we think this organization is called for. Poland is in dialogue with international organisations dealing with human rights, i.e. alongside the OSCE, also the Council of Europe, the European Commission or the United Nations. We present our position and do not analyze the functioning of these organizations and the possibilities of functioning in Poland in terms of what position they will take towards Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u55	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions for the Minister. I therefore open the discussion. I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the Law on the ratification of the Political Dialogue and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Cuba, on the other hand, drawn up in Brussels on 12 December 2016. The text of the Act is contained in print No 639 and the report of the Commission In print No 639 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Alicia Zając, to present a report to the committee. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u56	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, the Law on the ratification of the Political Dialogue and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Cuba, of the other part, drawn up in Brussels on 12 December 2016. The Commission examined the Act on 8 November 2017 and proposes the support of the attached draft resolution, i.e. the adoption of the Act. Why? Since the agreement concerns the membership of the Republic of Poland in international organisations, as well as matters governed by law, it is therefore subject to ratification with the prior consent of the Act. That is the law adopted by the Sejm. This agreement is based on several pillars. First of all, political dialogue. The provisions contained therein cover, in particular, the protection of human rights, the fight against illicit trafficking in small arms and light weapons, the disarmament and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the fight against terrorism, serious crimes of international importance, unilateral measures of political and economic coercion, the fight against production, smuggling and the use of illicit drugs, the fight against trafficking in human beings, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, as well as issues of sustainable development. Secondly, sectoral policy cooperation and dialogue This is part III of the agreement. These provisions cover a wide range of areas of future cooperation, including political and legal issues of governance, human rights, justice, citizens' security, migration, social issues, environmental protection, economic, development issues, also at lower than national level, as well as the integration of regional cooperation in the Caribbean and Latin America. And thirdly, trade and trade cooperation is part IV. This section harmonises the WTO-related contractual trade bases between the European Union and Cuba. In addition, there are provisions on trade facilitation and cooperation on the elimination of technical barriers to trade, technical cooperation on intellectual property, food safety, sustainable development and investment. Part V contains institutional provisions. A joint board is foreseen to oversee and monitor the fulfilment of the objectives of the Agreement and to set up a Joint Committee responsible for fulfilling the provisions of the Agreement. This joint council will be gathering. every 2 years and assessed the state of work of this forum. This is the first bilateral agreement between the Union and its Member States and Cuba. It opens up opportunities to support the modernisation of the Cuban economy and the Cuban society. And in the opinion of the committee, as well as of me, as rapporteur, and in accordance with the opinion of the Minister, this is a positive agreement. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, I ask the High House to support the attached draft resolution, which is the support of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u57	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to speak? No. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Jacek Chaputowicz like to speak on this bill? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Jacek Chaputowicz: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to take the floor on this? No. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the law on the provision of money to persons deported to forced labour and those imprisoned in labour camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the Law on the provision of public-funded health care... Let me remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators. It is included in print No 542, and the committee's report In print No 542 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Health and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u58	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the 3 joint committees on the draft law amending the law on the provision of money to persons deported to forced labour and to the labour camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics. I will continue to use a shorter name: deportees. Ladies and gentlemen, so it is, that Poland has a very turbulent and interesting history, but it is not always curiosity that is positive. In connection with this tumultuousness, with the history that Poland has been through, especially in the previous century, there are people living in our country who have just been hurt. In general, it was an injury suffered by invaders, whether military or foreign ideologically occupied Poland, who wanted to destroy Poland. Unlike these invaders, we, as a Polish state, try to make up for these groups of people's harm, the humiliations we have suffered. Such a group of people are e.g. Veterans and people repressed during World War II. Such a group of people are activists of the anti-communist opposition. We took care of, among other things, in this room. these groups, I think, in a worthy way and as much as the Polish state can afford But according to the first basic principle that these people need to be appreciated We have simply granted certain privileges to these people, not always financial. But there's another group of people who stay a little bit in the shadows. Perhaps because they were weakly claiming their rights, perhaps because their voice was just less audible. I think it's our moral duty to take care of this group of people who are being deported to forced labor. We should simply bear in mind all those who have been hurt, including those who have been deported to forced labour in the Third Reich and who have been imprisoned in labor camps also in the Soviet Union do not demand much. They are generally very old, over the age of 70, and usually much older. Their main expectation is... We won't give them money, we won't grant them financial gratification. We won't even burden you with this. They don't want to burden our country with that. We will simply grant them the opportunity to benefit from health benefits outside the order. This is the main reason that this bill is being considered by us at the moment. This group of people I'm talking about deportees for forced labour, with very little financial benefits, in the order of PLN 10.210, depending on the time of forced labour, which is the upper limit of PLN 210 due to the fact that it is only 20 months. But as I say, we're not on financial issues. There are 4 amendments to the current law in the draft we present to you in print No 542 S. The first concerns a certain possibility, to be used precisely by deportees, i.e. the right to benefit from healthcare services outside the order. The second is the law. or the possibility of providing these persons with outpatient specialized services without referral. These 2 changes are part of the revision of the Health Benefits Act, specifically on public-funded healthcare services. A 2 next changes are the right of priority in the field of environmental social care, including obtaining a place in social assistance homes and such, I would say, soft law, or, in fact, the possibility for local governments deported to work to provide aid for communication facilitations, housing, culture, health, education. These four powers, as you can see, have no financial background, so to speak. If they were adopted by the High House and subsequently adopted by the Sejm, they would certainly satisfy the expectations of this group of people, as I say, practically cost-effectively. Currently, these people are mostly members of the Association of Poles Repressed by the Third Reich, they have ID cards issued by this association. But in order to be able to exercise the rights proposed in the bill, we need to have... I mean, such a person should have a card issued by the administration. And that is why in the bill we propose that the head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons should issue such legitimacy at the request of this person. 'Cause it's important, too. Who was deported to forced labour. There's one more thing I'd like to point out here. The Veteran Office has a record of these people, because it had to make a decision on the basis of which these allowances were paid, which I mentioned earlier. Therefore, this process should be carried out relatively smoothly, without major inhibitions. As I said, it will only be a matter of the rightful person making an application, and the association I was talking about will certainly be involved in these cases. On the other hand, the question of checking in this register whether this person is actually entitled and issuing an appropriate card. Therefore, the costs of this law, according to the impact assessment of the regulation, are close to a very small amount, namely the amount of 362 thousand. This is the case if we estimate that there are still about 81 000 deportees in our country and that about 60 000 of them will request the possibility of issuing an ID confirming the rights I mentioned earlier. Then the total cost is $362,000. As I said, in terms of the costs incurred by the State, it is... [[Voice from the room: Pennies.]] ...minimum measures, and given the principle of fairness and justice, it is certainly worth the cost. And we should carry them. The Act provides for the issuing of a single implementing act, which we cedit to the Minister for Social Security, in which the Minister will set out a model for this legitimacy. Of course, the point is that this model of this card corresponds to the principles of proper identification of the person who will use it. In the bill because of its title... Unfortunately, we have to change the title. Why do I say 'unfortunately'? We are expanding the scope of the Act and therefore a change of title is necessary. And this change in title means that we still have to include the Personal Income Tax Act in the amended acts. In this law there is a provision which relieves the cash benefit received so far And which, of course, will continue to be received by persons deported to forced labour from the tax on individuals, and for this reason we should give this target law a different title than that referred to in that law. In total, we amend 3 legal acts, the main act of which is of course the Law on the provision of money to persons deported to forced labour and to be imprisoned in labour camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics. So much for the purpose, purpose and need of this law. As for the discussion at the joint committee meeting, it was really very interesting and long. There were actually no voices questioning the meaning and need for this law to be passed. Most of the issues raised in the course of the discussion were more related to the broad-based health service. It was really interesting. It's a good thing the Health Committee was involved. From the question of the possibility of obtaining benefits without queues, we moved on in the course of the discussion to general issues relating to health care. As I said, there were no voices in the debate that questioned the need for this law to be passed. During the discussion there were also two people representing the Association of Poles Damaged by the Third Reich, and in such a way as to cause emotion in the senators. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that this bill be adopted precisely so as to include. Those who were at the committee meeting, although of course they were only representatives of this tens of thousands of eligible people, were satisfied with the fact that the Republic of Poland sees their problems, appreciates their attitude during World War II, because it is mainly about this period of time. And he cares about their needs even when they're so old. I'm sure those people will feel appreciated. Maybe they'll never take advantage of the powers they're entitled to, which, of course, I wish them. I hope they have as little doctor's appointments as possible. But already knowing that such powers have the Rzeczpospolita leaned over them will certainly be for us, and for these people, and for the nation favorable. Finally, Mrs Marshal, I would like to ask you to set a deadline for the committees to prepare an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the bill still at this meeting. Why? Because I will have to make an amendment of a legislative nature in which we are still amending the Personal Income Tax Act so that this law is complete in legislative terms. Well, the Senate is sort of a Sejm teacher, and it would be bad if a slightly incomplete bill came out of the Senate. There should be no comment on the Sejm and, among others, there should be no comment on the Sejm. That's what the amendment is for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u59	Thank you very much, Senator. Stay on the stand. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants, who is also Senator Jerzy Czerwiński. Would anyone like to speak? Senator Jan Żaryn, you're welcome. Then Senator Alicia the Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u60	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have two questions: one short, one longer. The short one is: during the committee's work, did it ever occur to us to consider what other category of people, Poles victimized by various totalitarianisms, which have crossed the Polish lands, should be covered by such, of course, due witnessing? That's the first question. And the second question will be longer. Namely, you said that, to a large extent, the party that will decide on the qualification of the person to provide will be the Office for Veterans, which has appropriate qualifications and letters, even because of cooperation with the Association of Poles Repressed by the Third Reich. Of course, as far as the German side is concerned, in short, the archival resource is, among others. under the responsibility of the Polish-German Reconciliation Foundation, specifically in the Archive of New Acts. Of course, this law involves the entire procedure concerning compensation for forced labour, which was once part of the Polish-German contract. It must also be realized that not all of them applied under that decision, and therefore today's procedure, which would remain only and only at the level of the 1990s, may prove to be an exclusion procedure for those who would change their mind about the fact that health benefits should be made without the need to seek compensation from the Germans for their stay in the labour camp. [[Question...]] Even more complicated is the case concerning the Soviet side. It's a separate subject. Question. Did the committee's meeting therefore consider how to strengthen the Veterans' Office in the capacity to carry out the task, to carry out some kind of justice behind all this?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u61	Thank you very much. Senator Alicia the Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u62	Thank you very much. The Senator rapporteur said that the joint committee meeting was attended by representatives of the association of deportees. I would like to ask how a large group of people belong to this association and where they learn about our statutory arrangements, especially since it is a group of older people and often from small towns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u63	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u64	Are there any other categories, groups of people that we should make up for, I would say, historical events, some of the harm they've suffered? They're supposed to be. We didn't talk about it at the committee meeting. I think a representative of the Veterans' Office will be competent on the question of the answer. I know there's work to be done. I say this on the basis of previous discussions As far as forced miners are concerned. I can't exactly define the categories of people like that. If such groups were, you must certainly approach them as you do here, i.e. With understanding. And you have to do it. It's as soon as possible. I didn't talk about it in my opening speech, but these people are getting weaker. There's just less and less of them. Over the year, the average declines by 10%. people like that. These are the estimates of this association, which has a direct view of the situation. It's just biological because they're age-old people. All the more reason for us to hurry. If there are other groups of people... I think here... They didn't come forward, at least to me. If the senators were to report to these groups... The initiative should be here on the side of the Veterans' Office. He's got a full view of the situation, so I'd call it. Documentary issues. I didn't say that. I wasn't exactly describing the bill. We leave the privilege of receiving the witness. So you can get a benefit... Previously, there was a procedure described in the Act. It is described in the article. 4. The right shall be recorded or communicated in the form of a decision concerning the entitled person. These people know, it's obvious they have that kind of authority. The Veterans' Office also knows that. This means that a transitional provision can be applied. This is a material provision. He's still in circulation and he'll be in circulation in the future. It is about the possibility for persons entitled to make such a decision, i.e. a decision to grant a benefit, which will be combined with a decision to issue a card authorising the use of healthcare services in order. In the law itself there is a transitional provision, i.e. Article 2 3, talking about what happened to those people who already have a decision. What they have to do with this decision is the power they may grant them. I hope that he will grant the bill on the basis of this project. And all they have to do is apply for a card. In fact, those who are already getting a witness are also important, because perhaps some of them are listening to us. They will only apply for an ID card. And the proposal of these people will be implemented, let's say, in a simplified way, i.e. simply by reaching into the register at the Veterans' Office where the persons entitled to the cash benefit are registered. And such a card will be given to them. However, there may be people who do not receive money benefits who will also want to benefit from this right. They should, but already in a material way, continue to be in force at the moment, i.e. on the basis of the article. 4 of the mother's law, apply for the benefit, and on the occasion of granting the benefit, they will be granted a card. So this mode isn't closed. This mode is not closed because there is also a material provision concerning the future, and a transitional provision concerning those who already have such a right. As for the way they prove and the possibilities of proving the powers they should have... well, that's what the article says. 1 and Article 1 2 of this bill. I don't want to talk about it here because it's an executive issue. I think someone from the Veterans' Office will be able to tell us what documents might be honored. There will probably be other documentation on the issue of the Third Reich and another on the issue of the Soviet Union. I agree with the senator that, in the latter case, it may be difficult to obtain documentation. But these are, as I say, executive issues. The question was how many people are in the association. According to what I was told, there are now over 20,000 people, and not all members of the association... Conversely: not all are eligible members of the association, this is about 1/3. And like I said, there's a 10% loss in a year. They're leaving so fast. That is why they care most about health, social protection and less about financial powers. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u65	Mr. Senator Rulewski. [[No, thank you.]] Are there any more questions? [[No.]] [[There isn't.]] There isn't? Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: No.]] No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Lightning.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u66	I'd ask a representative of the Veterans' Office to answer a question that... [[There's no representative.]] Oh, there isn't? [[There it is, there it is.]] Is it? [[You're the principal.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm sorry, but I don't know who will be competent, so it's a request that you decide which of you will be competent. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Well, then ask the question, and then you will decide who will answer it.]] Good. The question is what I asked Senator Czerwinski. What will be the procedure for obtaining this benefit for persons who, for various reasons, have not been covered by the existing statutory privileges? Since there is no doubt that the health issue is so important for this category of people, it must be anticipated that new people who, in turn, were not interested in financial benefits will come forward.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u67	You're gonna answer the Minister's question, right? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u68	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, when it comes to getting this status, he doesn't change. Those persons who have a decision issued by the Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons to obtain appropriate status shall retain their powers. Persons who have not established such status may, as so far, apply for such a decision upon request. The draft law does not provide for changes as regards the subject matter scope, in terms of criteria on the basis of which the relevant status can be obtained. We are simply dealing with an extension of the solutions contained in the Public Health Benefits Act and the Social Assistance Act. A group of persons who have not so far exercised such special powers shall be included here. That's how I'd answer that question. As regards the evidence on which these benefits can be used, such proof will be the legitimacy issued by the Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u69	Thank you very much, Minister. I don't see any more... [[Mr. Marshal, can I have one more sentence?]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u70	I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, that in such a strange mode, but I didn't finish... [[No mode.]] [[Voices from the room: No mode.]] Yeah, no mode. Exactly. The senator asked how these people would find out about the powers they'd get if they got them. Ladies and gentlemen, this association is very efficient. This is the correspondence file I got from the individual branches of this association. I hope that there will be no major problems here at least in this regard.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u71	Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Together with a group of Senators of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, we believe that, first of all, the sensitivity of Senator Czerwiński is as accurate as possible, in line with our imaginations, and secondly that the initiative presented by him fulfils all the conditions not only for legislation, but also places this group... in a group of regulations which are used by people who are being repressed during the period of activity of the Solidarity period and before. There is no doubt about that, we have long been presenting this view. The argument here is that this concerns a narrow group, even a handful of people who will not only receive material recognition in the times of the Third Republic. Although it is really difficult to talk about material recognition, since this benefit, very delicately valued, amounts to about 200 PLN but also... The important value of this initiative is indeed what the senator emphasized, i.e. You've got to say it's a certain privilege... Because when 200 PLN is difficult to consider as a privilege, because it is only a supplement to cheap funds for e.g. medical assistance, it is already giving priority in queues to medical service is an important privilege, because it concerns health, and then, I think, also life, especially since we are talking about elderly people who, as you might imagine, suffer from a certain syndrome, a syndrome of diseases typical of this age. It's not polemic. The Senator rapporteur said it wouldn't cost you. At the meeting of the committee, not so much the costs were discussed, but the reality of this privilege, as much due to age, and because of suffering, double suffering, because of the time of the Third Reich or the Soviet Union, but also of those later, not perceived during the period of the Polish People's Republic. But it'll cost you... In my opinion, this privilege cannot be at the expense of those other people who have set themselves up for many years and who are in a similar health situation in these queues. This discussion was about whether this privilege would be real or whether a second queue would be created or, don't give... Sorry, I won't call in vain This will not be at the expense of the existing queue, and both the Senator rapporteur and we all do not want to allow it. Therefore, it is important here to call on the health services, personally the Minister, to use various organisational and financial means in his capacity to implement this right solution. I answer, although it may be too late, that in the Ministry responsible for veteran affairs there is still quite a large amount, because over PLN 40 million, which has not been used so far to help the environments covered by the anti-communist opposition law and those persecuted. I think there's still time. This government shows that it can even jump time, and sometimes also the provisions of the Budget Act, I am talking about miners. To help these people. The idea is not to remain convinced, even in a small opinion group, that we are giving privileges without guaranteeing their implementation. In other words, so that the second line doesn't form. And that is why I call on the government to take up the position of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which this week adopted a position to strengthen what Senator Czerwiński has already persuaded us to do. We will vote in favour of this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u73	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Czerwiński. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: No.]] Thank you. Senator Czerwiński has submitted a request for the appointment of committees to prepare an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the bill still at this Senate meeting. If I don't hear a voice of objection, I think the Senate has accepted the motion. I don't hear that voice. As proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted, the Senate directs the bill to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Health and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. I'm asking Senator Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u74	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Message. 10 minutes after the adjournment of the 3 committees, the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Health They will hold a joint meeting in Room 176 for the purpose of examining the proposals submitted to the draft law amending the Law on the provision of money to persons deported to forced labour and in labour camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the Law on the provision of public-funded health care, print No 542. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby announce a recess until 12.30 a.m. At 12:00 p.m., the exhibition will open forever to the hungry, like a crane with its neck in the future pulled out by Bolesław Leśmian (1877-1937). After the break, we will proceed with the resolution on the commemoration of Bolesław Leśmian. In the absence of legislative proposals, the vote on this item will take place immediately after its consideration. Then we'll move on to all the other votes. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 15 to 12 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u76	I'm reopening the session. Gentlemen, the Senators are already in their seats. We proceed with the examination of the item on the 20th agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on commemoration of Bolesław Leśmian. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the senators, please turn the conversation down. [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] Welcome to the meeting of Professor Mikołaj Sokołowski, Director of the Institute of Literary Research of the Polish Academy of Sciences, and other guests. Let me remind you that the draft resolution was introduced by a group of senators. It is contained in print No 612, and the committee's report In print No 612 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Maria Koc, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Mr. Directors! Ladies and gentlemen! The exhibition dedicated to Bolesław Leśmian has just been opened, and now I have the honour to present to you a draft resolution commemorating this great poet on the 100th anniversary of his birthday and the 80th anniversary of his death. Bolesław Leśmian was born on 22 January 1877 in Warsaw. His family moved to Kiev, where he spent his youth, where he studied law at St. Vladimir. He was a notary by profession, but he didn't like his job. He felt like a poet first of all. He loved poetry, literature, philosophy, and his profession, you can say, did without heart. This caused huge financial difficulties in the second part of his life, in the last years of his life. When he ran a notary in Zamość, he didn't exactly supervise his coworkers, and the office was embezzled with a large amount of money, and Leśmian had to pay back tens of thousands of zlotys. It led him to ruin, and unfortunately he died in poverty. Ladies and gentlemen, before Leśmian went to Zamość, he lived in Warsaw, traveled, was in Germany, in France. In Paris, he met his wife, a painter, Zofia Chylinska, but it must be said that she was not the only woman in his life, because later the poet became involved with doctor Dora Lebenthal and for more than 20 years he loved two women, not knowing and not wanting to give up any of them. Undoubtedly, the rich emotional life had an impact on the work of the poet, because he is the author of the most beautiful lovely and erotic poems in Polish literature, although of course he did not just write about it. It must be said that this enormous apotheosis of love in Lesmian's poetry comes primarily from deep philosophical, existential and religious reflections, and only later from the personal experience of the poet. Ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, who of us does not know the juicy poems of Bolesław Leśmian, created by beautiful, blameless Polish, created with language maestria, putting Lesmian next to the greatest Polish poets? It is a poetry created with language maestria, but also with momentum, freedom, boldness, which determines the use of numerous symbols, metaphors, archaisms, paradoxes, and above all neologists, of which Leśmian was famous, and which from his name were called Lesmianisms. Bolesław Leśmian, with freedom to operate in Polish, at the same time observed strict principles of syllabotonic structure, thanks to which poems of this poet are rhythmic and very melodic. During the life of Bolesław Leśmian, several collections of his poems were published: In these collections there were such poems as the Raspberry Chruśniak, the Two Humans, the Com made you suddenly pale?, the Twilight, the Morning, the Moon Row, the First Fogs You reach, the Happiness, the Clouds and much more. Most of the critics criticized his contemporary poems were coolly or fatally accepted. Speaking of Bolesław Leśmian's works, it is impossible not to mention his beautiful, original fairy tales written with prose, which in childhood shaped our imagination, carried us into a world of fantasy unlimited and extremely intriguing. These are sesame Klechdy, Polish Klechdy or Sinbad Sailor's Adventures. Bolesław Leśmian in his life was underestimated as a poet. Unappreciated, misunderstood, isolated by the literary community precisely because of this misunderstanding of his poetry, but also because of his origin, because he was born in a Jewish family, although assimilated. He was regarded as an epigon of Young Poland, of course wrongly, because, as Professor Mikołaj Sokołowski said at the opening of the exhibition, he was the forerunner of modern trends of poetry. But that's not how his work was perceived, he wasn't seen as an original and outstanding poet. Another prominent poet, contemporary to us, Jarosław Marek Rymkiewicz, wrote in his encyclopedia Leśmiana.Bolesław Leśmian was the biggest Polish poet of the 20th century. When he was alive, poetry friends laughed at him and his poems, and he did things that no one had ever done before him. Finally, this must be made clear. In the history of our national literature its place is next to the greatest: next to Jan Kochanowski, Adam Mickiewicz and Juliusz Słowacki. His favorite place in Warsaw was the Small Earth café. There at their table were very often met by the Kamandrits, who then led the primal in the literary life of our homeland. It's never happened that the marines ever invited Leśmian to their table. You could say... I just talked to the author of the books about Leśmian and he said that it was actually Leśmian who should have invited them, because he was the big one, the biggest and most outstanding one, but in those days when he was alive, it was different. In 1933 he was elected to the Polish Academy of Literature. He died in Warsaw on 5 November 1937. He's buried in Powązki. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a draft resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the commemoration of Bolesław Leśmian. The draft resolution was presented at a meeting of the Legislative Commission. He has gained unanimous support, so I have the honour to present this project to you now. For 2017 there are as many as two anniversaries associated with the name Bolesław Leśmian, the 140th anniversary of the birth and the 80th anniversary of the death of the poet (born on 22 January 1877, died on 5 November 1937). His work is one of the most outstanding achievements in Polish literature. The value of his poetry is determined by artistic maestria, not only using the best possibilities of Polish language, but also extending its boundaries to the extent that few artists could achieve words in the history of Polish culture; Leśmian is placed next to such outstanding Polish poets as Jan Kochanowski or Adam Mickiewicz. The Polish language championship, so important for the consolidation of national identity after regaining independence by the country, joined Bolesław Leśmian with the deepest philosophical problem, affecting fundamental universal existential and anthropological issues, also developed in estheistic texts. This cognitive insight, far from hermeticity, decided to acknowledgment Lesmian, admired continuously by further educated and seeking the wisdom of the generation. Both the praise of the beauty of Polish language and the encouragement for deep reflection are elementary needs also today, under the conditions of a dictatorship of mass culture, conducive to the loss of attention to the quality of speech and thought. Bolesław Leśmian was the leading representative of Polish literature of the interwar period. In 1933, he was honored with the dignity of a member of the Polish Academy of Literature. The Senate of the Republic of Poland now wishes to pay tribute to this Great Pole and celebrate his memory on the 140th anniversary of his birthday and the 80th anniversary of his death. The Senate of the Republic of Poland calls on schools and scientific and cultural institutions to promote the character, creativity and ideas of the Poet. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, please take this resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u78	Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants, who is also Senator Maria Koc, your marshal. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. I'm opening a discussion. He was the first Senator of the Seasons to sign up for the discussion. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u79	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! Perhaps we can all say, as we sit here, that this great and wonderful figure, Bolesław Leśmian, and his poetry, influenced our perception of reality, as well as the perception of the answers to fundamental questions about what to say much here, the meaning of each of us's lives individually, because this poet penetrated very deeply into human existence. But also we all know, as we are sitting here, that it really belonged to those who co-created Polish culture and, of course, are still present today. And that's what I want to talk about. Jarosław Rymkiewicz, a great Polish writer of the present, was quoted here, who was deeply immersed in history, because he himself wrote about history, placed Leśmian next to Kochanowski, Mickiewicz and Słowacki. You could say the higher ranking is gone. Similarly, his work and his own work were treated by another great Polish artist, Jacek Trznadel, who, in his introduction to the Leśmianowski's 2016 edition, wrote: "The arrangement of this calendar was accompanied by the thought that I was dealing with a poet who expressed so much of human feelings and thoughts. It means that by reading his songs, maybe we understand life better. They're big words, but that's how I look at Leśmian's poetry. It is also worth remembering these words, because they are part of what is a phenomenon of our national culture. Namely, on the one hand, Polish national culture is connected with building what distinguishes us and what consolidates us. The Polish national community requires such a great high culture, because in our history it has happened that we did not have our own country and it was thanks to national culture that we were still Poles At the same time, from the first Polish Republic to today Polish national culture is incredibly diverse and individualized. And that is what our Polish phenomenon is, which we can boast about all over the world, and which has also caused, especially in the 19th century, when the state was not so attractive that we were so attractive through this love of freedom, i.e. love also the variety of effects of this freedom, effects in the form of Polish culture. And it is worth noting today that it is the Jewish origins of Bolesław Leśmian, which is precisely the diversity from which the greatest Polish creators emerge, which gives effect in the form of this phenomenon of Polish culture. The origin does not become a disadvantage, but a wealth, an experience that fits into this multicolority of Polish culture, a Polish culture growing from the first Polish Republic, from the east to the west, on the basis of contrast and at the same time on the principle of mutual enrichment. Hence, by all means, I am all the more in favour of making this resolution. I'm in favour of this. not only because I also grew up in this poetry And a great poem about Soul, as you know, to this day, each of us will be the same after a thousandth reading. he had a strong experience, because it is one of the most beautiful poems, which, after all, we all, as we sit here, individually touches. So I am very pleased that we can adopt this resolution, and I am very happy I think we're all happy. That we have such a rich and great Polish culture also thanks to Bolesław Leśmian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u80	Thank you, Senator. Senator Dorota Czudowska, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u81	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Forgive me if my speaking on this occasion will be very... Maybe not really, but a little personal. At first, I'll say I'm very happy. I think we're all gonna be relieved. That this resolution today we will at least make amends to Bolesław Leśmian a little bit, that we rejected a different resolution a few months ago, a resolution concerning the year of Bolesław Leśmian. Such a reparation on the part of the Senate, on the part of the High House Bolesław Leśmian was due. 1867 abounded in the birth of great Poles... On November 5, Bolesław Leśmian died... On November 7, Maria Skłodowska-Curie was born and on December 5, Marshal Józef Piłsudski was born. I fell in love with Leśmian thanks to my polonist in high school in general, already dead Mrs Kononowicz, who was a wonderful Polish woman, a wonderful man. In the years in which I studied in high school, 1968 and 1972, in the poetry program Lesmian was only known to all the poems entitled. In a raspberry chrysalis. But the professor has always encouraged us to expand our knowledge and reading more than the list of school readings predicted. I remember how she encouraged us to read Lesmian's erotics. I'm sure the young people today would be laughing at all the pastries they've made. We've been reading these beautiful poems. 'Cause it's a really beautiful poetic erotic. [[Oh, oh, oh!]] [[Erotic?]] Erotic, yes. [[Senator, erotic?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'd like you to... I think that in the 1960s, or maybe in the 1950s, it was not allowed to print too much of Lesmian's works. I have here a volume from my family's collection, which is over 50 years old, and there's no date of release here anywhere. It's published by some... it doesn't say what publishing company gave it up. But there are all the poems On the pages of yellow, destroyed, wiped out, because I take this volume with me always on vacation and all my summer holidays begin with the words: "Unavailable to human eyes that no one strays from it, In its emerald safety bloomed in immeasurably meadow. It puts me in the mood of summer, in the mood of calming, in the mood of resting. But there is also another poem, which is the words that Paul Eluard wrote in one of his poems: "Il y a des mots qui font vivre. " There are words that allow you to live. There's a poem by Bolesław Leśmian called "Szewczyk." And the last verse is my motto at different times of life. You gave me, God, a bite of existence, What's enough for me to go all the way? Forgive that in the misery of the shadows I can't give you anything but shoes. There's nothing in stitching except sewing, So we sew while we're strong enough! There's nothing in life but life, So let's live to the end of the grave! Thank you very much. Bow to you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u82	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on honoring the memory of Bolesław Leśmian. Who among the senators is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] The vote's on, something's jammed... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I now pronounce the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, all in favour of this resolution. [[Voting No 2]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on commemoration of Bolesław Leśmian. I ask Professor Mikołaj Sokołowski to approach the presidential table in order to receive the text of the resolution. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of the item on the 21st agenda: changes in the membership of the Senate committees. I would like to remind you that the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on this issue is included in print No 656. I ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Przemysław Błaszczyk, to present a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u83	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee at its meeting yesterday examined Senator Jerzy Czerwiński's request to be removed from the list of members of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and to be accepted as a member of the Committee on National Defence. The Commission has examined this proposal positively, prepared the relevant resolution and asks the High Senate to adopt this resolution. Thank you. [[What's the reason, Senator?]] [[Stop it.]] Ask...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u84	Thank you. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? No one's checking in. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the composition of the Senate committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, 79 were in favour, 1 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate committees. We are returning to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Budget Act for 2017. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter; it is in print No 644 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Mr Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u85	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission recommends that the High House adopt a law without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u86	Thank you. Gentlemen, senators, do the senators of the applicant want to speak yet? No one's checking in. We therefore proceed to the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on a proposal from the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to adopt a law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, 56 votes against, 25 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 4]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Budget Act for 2017. We are returning to the second agenda: Act amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Act for 2017. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter; it is in print No 645 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission recommends that the Senate adopt a law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u88	Thank you. Would Senator Leszek Czarnobaj like to speak? [[Thank you.]] Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on a proposal from the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance backed by a committee to adopt a law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 57 votes against, 25 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Act for 2017. We are returning to the examination of the third agenda: the law amending the law on taxation. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of a law without amendment. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 84 were in favour, no one was. against and no one abstained from voting. [[Voting No 6]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Tax Ordination. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the excise duty law and the Act on the organisation of certain agricultural markets. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendment. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 82 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 7]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the excise duty law and the Act on the organisation of certain agricultural markets. We are returning to the examination of item five of the agenda: the law amending the law on the shaping of the agricultural system. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of a law without amendments. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 60 for, 24 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 8]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on the shaping of the agricultural system. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Income of Local Government Units. The National Defence Commission and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of a law without amendment. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 58 votes against, 14 against and 12 abstentions. [[Voting No 9]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Income of Local Government Units. We are returning to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in order to improve the legal environment of innovative activities. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, which responded to the proposals presented during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject, is published in print No 646 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Kazimierz Wind, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u89	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Today, the joint committees, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport adopted a proposal for adoption without amendment. The results of the vote: 18 senators were in favour, 5 against, 1 abstention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u90	Thank you. Does senator Mieczysław Augustyn still want to speak? No. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed to the vote on the motion for adoption of the law without amendment supported by the joint committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 58 votes against, 26 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 10]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending certain laws in order to improve the legal environment of innovative activities. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the law on amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they propose amendments to the Act. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 eliminates the contradiction in the rules on the first residence card. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 79 votes against, 1 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 11]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 2 harmonises the terminology of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 Senators voted 79 in favour, no one opposed, three Senators abstained. [[Voting No 12]] I state that the amendment has been accepted. Amendment 3 correctly indicates the change made in the provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted in favour, 81 votes in favour. [[Voting No 13]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 4 harmonises the terminology of the law and takes into account that the notice may be delivered to the Head of the Office for Foreigners not only by mail. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 14]] We proceed with the vote on Amendment 5. It takes into account that the offence of making false statements is a different type of crime than the offence of giving false statements. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 80 for, two senators abstained, no one opposed. [[Voting No 15]] I state that the amendment has been accepted. Amendment 6 completes the reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 7 extends the scope of the reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 83 for, 1 abstention, no one opposed. [[Voting No 17]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 8 adapts the terminology of the Foreigners Act to the terminology of the Social Insurance Fund Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, all in favour of the amendment. [[Voting No 18]] Amendment 9 takes into account that Article. 139g added to the Foreigners Act concerning temporary residence permit for the purpose of carrying out intra-corporate transfer work may be used for temporary residence permit for long-term mobility only accordingly. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 Senators voted, 81 votes in favour, no one opposed, two Senators abstained. [[Voting No 19]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 10 harmonises the terminology of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, all in favour of the amendment. [[Voting No 20]] Amendment 11 adds an amendment which is the consequence of the definition in the Foreigners' Act of concept of mobility. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 21]] Amendments 12, 23, 25, 28, 29 and 30 should be voted on together. These amendments aim to ensure that the provisions which were to enter into force on 1 January 2018 enter into force 30 days after the vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 22]] The amendments have been accepted. Amendment 14 amends the wording, taking into account... [[Voice from the room: No 13, Mr. Marshal.]] Amendment 13 harmonises the terminology of the same regulation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 23]] Now Amendment 14, which amends the designation of the provision, taking into account that the Act of 27 October 2017 on the amendment of the Law on repatriation, the Act on the Charter of Poles and the Act on Foreigners adds the identically marked provision to the Act on Foreigners. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 83 for, no one against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 24]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 15 corrects the erroneous reference, taking into account that the provisions to which reference is made can only be applied accordingly. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 25]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 16 deletes a provision that does not have no normative value. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 26]] Amendment 17 amends the substantive provision as a consequence amendment of the statutory delegation in respect of the fixing of the flat-rate daily costs of a foreigner's stay in a guarded centre or detention facility for foreigners. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 82 votes against, no one opposed, two abstentions. [[Voting No 27]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 18 correlates the terminology of the Foreigners Act with the terminology of the National Bank of Poland Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 28]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 19 takes into account that the call for a deposit referred to in Article. Article 6 (6) (a) The 5th Act on the winding-up of unsubscribed deposits shall not be served, but shall be displayed on the information board at the deposit holding office. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 83 for, no one against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 29]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 20 correlates with Article. 400b added to the Act on Foreigners with the provisions of the Act on the provision of health care financed by public funds following the amendments made in this Act by the Act of 27 October 2017 on primary health care. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, 81 votes against, no one opposed, two abstentions. [[Voting No 30]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 21 corrects the wrong reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 31]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 22 deletes the non-essential amending provision. The amendment, which was to be carried out by the deleted provision, was made by the Law of 7 April 2017 amending the Repatriation Act and certain other laws. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 32]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 23 has already been voted on In conjunction with amendments No 12, No 25, No 28, No 29 and No 30. Amendment 24 correlates the content of the calculation with the introduction into the calculation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, all in favour of the amendment. [[Voting No 33]] Amendment 25 was voted on, including Amendments 12 and 23, 28,29 and 30. Amendment 26 makes it clear that the provision refers to the counting of the retention period in the list and not to the inclusion of the data in the list. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 Senators voted, 82 votes against, no one opposed, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 34]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 27 takes into account that the regulation adopted pursuant to Article. Article 80 (1) (b) and (c) of Delegated Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 1 The Act on Foreigners cannot be maintained temporarily in force for the second time. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 35]] The amendment was accepted. Amendments 28, 29 and 30 have already been voted in conjunction with Amendments 12, 23 and 25. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, all in favour of the resolution. [[Voting No 36]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the adoption of a law amending the Foreigners Act and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Civil Records Act. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration has presented a draft resolution in which it proposes an amendment to the Act. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment submitted and then a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendment tabled by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back... Sorry, the amendment we will be voting on is intended to leave in the provision authorising the issuing of an implementing act the right to draw up bilingual forms. Now I'm asking, who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 26 for, 54 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 37]] The amendment was not accepted. We proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety with the amendment of... Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results... [[Does it really have to be air conditioning?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Vote... [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr. Marshal, a motion to adopt a law without amendments should be submitted.]] I'm sorry, the mistake was I didn't say we were adopting a bill without amendment. [[Voice from the room: But no one has made such a request.]] No one's filed that motion. [[I'll call it in.]] We are therefore voting on the law without amendments. I'm giving you the results of the vote because this is the vote that took place. [[The conclusion has to be.]] Yes? Two minutes off. [[Mr. Marshal, I report...]] [[Senator Wind reporting, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 18 to 13 minutes 20]] I'm reopening the session. You have a voice, Senator Wind. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u91	Mr. Marshal, in accordance with the rules of procedure, I propose that this law be adopted without amendment. [[Which one?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u92	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of the law without amendments. [[But which bill?]] Let me remind you that we are talking about paragraph nine of the Act amending the Civil Records Act. In the light of Senator Wind's request, we are voting on the bill without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's... [[Voices from the room: Not working]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Let's take a break.]] Wait a minute. [[Voices from the O.R.: It's working.]] Good. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 66 votes against, 16 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 38]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Register of Population. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the law on the amendment of the Municipal Government Act. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration has presented a draft resolution in which it proposes the adoption of this law without amendment. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, all in favour of a resolution. [[Voting No 39]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the Municipal Government Act. We are returning to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Protection of Mental Health and some other laws. The Health Committee has presented a draft resolution requesting amendments to the Act. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 is intended to return to the current regulation, according to which a request for removal from a psychiatric hospital of a person who is in such a hospital without his consent may not be notified earlier than 30 days after the decision of the court on admission to or further treatment has become final. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted against, 25 against, 53 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 40]] The amendment was not accepted. Amendment 2 clarifies that the consent of a statutory representative to the admission of a minor to a social assistance home, even if that person remains under parental authority, will require authorisation from a custody court. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, 80 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 41]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, 80 for, 1 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 42]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Law on the Protection of Mental Health and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act on tourist events and related tourist services. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation was adjourned, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter; it is in print No 641 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u93	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! The Commission recommends adopting amendments 2, 3, 4, 5 and 7 and rejecting the other amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u94	Thank you. Do the senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur, Mr Mieczysław Augustyn, still wish to speak? [[No.]] We therefore proceed to the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the adoption of the law without amendments and, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on the proposal of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to adopt the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, none voted in favour, all against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 43]] In view of the outcome of the vote, we are now voting on the amendments. Amendment 1 aims to ensure that the definition of the concept of a tourist operator does not cover its scope of activity for consideration. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 Senators voted, 26 votes against, 56 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 44]] The amendment was not accepted. Amendment 2 clarifies the regulation, indicating that the creation of a tourist event will not take place if the value of additional tourist services is less than 25% the total value of combined tourist services. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 Senators voted, 81 for, 1 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 45]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 4 aims to harmonise terminology within the framework of... [[Voices from the room: Amendment 3.]] Sorry, Amendment 3 clarifies the provision on the linking of tourist services, indicating that there will be no creation of related tourist services where the value of the additional services referred to in the provision is less than 25% the total value of combined tourist services. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 82 senators, 80 votes for, 1 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 46]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 4 aims to harmonise terminology in the framework of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 75 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 47]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 5 improves the readability of the rule. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[The adoption of this amendment excludes the vote on Amendment 6. Say it.]] Yes, sir. I add that the rejection of Amendment 5... [[Party.]] Accepting Amendment 5 will mean... [[Rejection of Amendment 6.]] ...that we reject Amendment 6. Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, all in favour of this amendment. [[Voting No 48]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on Amendment 7, which aims to ensure the correct precision of the reference set out in the Consular Law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 49]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 Senators voted, 76 in favour, no one opposed, 6 abstentions. [[Voting No 50]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on tourist events and related tourist services. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject, which is in print No 631 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Mr Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u95	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! The Commission recommends adopting all amendments, excluding Amendment 8 and Amendment 13. The exclusion of Amendment 13 results from the adoption of Amendment 12, which improved the amendment previously adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u96	Do you still want to speak as an applicant? [[No, thank you.]] We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendments 1, 3 and 6 should be voted on together. These amendments prejudice that only a vehicle not previously registered on the territory of the Republic of Poland or abroad may be the subject of a professional vehicle registration decision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, all in favour of the amendment. [[Voting No 51]] Amendments 2, 7 and 10 aim to ensure the terminology coherence between the amended law and the amending law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, all in favour of the amendments. [[Voting No 52]] Amendment 3 has already been voted in conjunction with Amendments 1 and 6. Amendment 4 takes account of the fact that two different offences are listed in the Criminal Code: false statements and false statements. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, all in favour of the amendment. [[Voting No 53]] Amendment 5 is more specific. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 79 senators voted, all in favour of the amendment. [[Voting No 54]] Amendment 6 has already been voted in conjunction with Amendments 1 and 3. Amendment 7 has already been voted in conjunction with Amendments 2 and 10. We proceed with the vote on Amendment 8, which stipulates that a short-term insurance contract may conclude an entity entitled for the period of validity of a professional registration document, but not less than 30 days, for vehicles for test rides which are not registered in the territory of the Republic of Poland. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 27 against, 52 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 55]] The amendment was not supported. Amendment 9 is more specific. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, all in favour of the amendment. [[Voting No 56]] Amendment 10 has already been voted in conjunction with Amendments 2 and 7. Amendment 11 requires the inclusion in the list of vehicles used in road traffic by means of a professional registration document of the date and number of the document confirming payment of excise duty in the territory of the country or a document confirming the absence of an obligation to pay excise duty in the territory of the country, or a certificate certifying exemption from excise duty within the meaning of the excise legislation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, all in favour of the amendment. [[Voting No 57]] Amendment 12 will rule out voting on Amendment 13. Amendment 12 shortens the deadline from 30 to 14 days counted from the date of the call to provide certified copies or to print out a list of vehicles used in road traffic using a professional registration document, including such an amendment in the provision ordering the old lady to be informed of the failure to comply with that deadline. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 80 votes against, no one opposed, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 58]] The amendment was supported. Amendment 14 ensures consistency between the transitional provision and the entry into force of the Law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 79 senators voted, 77 for, 2 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 59]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, all in favour of the bill. [[Voting No 60]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the adoption of a law amending the law on road traffic and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on road traffic and the law on drivers of vehicles. I would remind you that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No 507 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Marek Borowski to present the Senate's position in further work on the project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 80 Senators voted 77 in favour, no one opposed, three Senators abstained. [[Voting No 61]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate supported the draft law on the amendment of the law on road traffic and the law on vehicle managers and adopted a resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Marek Borowski to present the Senate's position in further work on the project. We would like to return to the discussion of item 15 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the system of military courts. The National Defence Commission has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of a law without amendments. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 68 votes against, 1 against and 13 abstentions. [[Voting No 62]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Military Courts. We return to the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe on the status of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe in the Republic of Poland, signed in Warsaw on 28 June 2017. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendment. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 63]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe on the status of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe in the Republic of Poland, signed in Warsaw on 28 June 2017. We return to agenda item 17: the Law on the ratification of the Political Dialogue and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Cuba, on the other hand, drawn up in Brussels on 12 December 2016. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendment. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 Senators voted, 80 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 64]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of the Political Dialogue and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Cuba, on the other hand, drawn up in Brussels on 12 December 2016. We are returning to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the Law on Financial Provision for Persons Deported to Forced Labour and in Employment Camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics and the Law on the provision of Public-funded healthcare. Following the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Health and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting; it is published in print No 542 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The three committees unanimously supported the two amendments tabled and asked for them to be adopted together with the single text of the draft.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u98	At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur and at the same time to the applicant in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of you senators like to ask such a question? No one volunteered. We therefore proceed to the vote. First, the amendments will be voted in the order of the draft and then the draft adopted in full, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendments 1 and 2 should be voted on together. Amendment 1 and 2 introduce the necessary consequence of the amendment of the title of the amended act in the Act on personal income tax. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 74 senators voted, 73 votes against, no one opposed, one abstention. [[Voting No 65]] We proceed to the vote on the adoption of the bill in its entirety with changes resulting from the amendments adopted and on the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. The committees propose that the Senate authorize Senator Jerzy Czerwiński to represent the Senate in further work on this bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] 75 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 66]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the law on the provision of money to persons deported to forced labour and in labour camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics and the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate authorised Senator Jerzy Czerwiński to represent the Senate in further work on this project. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 50th Senate meeting has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the next meeting, scheduled for 5 and 6 December, will be sent to you by e-mail. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. Would any of your senators like to speak? [[Yes.]] [[I was saved.]] Senator Fedorovich. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u99	I'm sorry, I was saved. [[Good.]] I'm gonna cut it short. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a senator's statement to the Senate Marshal of the Republic of Poland on compliance with ethical principles in the public debate. Dear Marshal, Prof. Jadwiga Puzynina, President of the Group of Ethics of the Polish Language Council of the Polish Academy of Sciences, called on me to include in the debate the principles of the ethics of the word, based on respect for the dignity of all participants in political and social life. I am making this statement on the hands of a person who is in a much greater position than I am to influence the popularizations of the contents contained in it. I fully share the view of Professor Jadwiga Puzynina, the recognised authority of Polish Polish polonisty. May the Senate be the initiator and source from which new standards of discussion on matters of the Republic of Poland will flow, a discussion in which the dignity of each of its participants will be respected, in which only ad rem arguments will be used and the ad personam argument will never come up again. I attach Professor Jadwiga Puzynina's letter. Signed: Jerzy Fedorowicz. Mr. Marshal, I'm handing over my statement and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u100	Thank you. Senator Libicki has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My senator statement is addressed to the Minister of Health, Mr Konstanty Radziwiłł. Dear Minister, On 29 June 2017, at the forty-fourth Senate meeting, I submitted to you a senator's statement on the criteria for the selection of offers in the procedure for the conclusion of health care contracts, as regards the continuity of the provision of services by tenderers. You replied to my senator's statement by letter dated 28 August 2017, marked with the PR mark, Minister Marcin Czech. 070.29. 2017.MM, IK: 1008901. In this reply, it was concluded that, where the existing medical entity which is a civil company is to be dissolved, the newly established medical entity to which the limited partnership is to be established in order to fulfil the continuity criterion should assume the rights and obligations arising from the health care contract by cession at the latest on the last day of its implementation. However, in my case, it is not possible to obtain an appropriate assignment. Therefore, I took the liberty of applying for additional expertise. The opinion on this subject, which I have requested from the Senator's Office and which I attach to this statement, states that if the transfer of rights and obligations occurs only as a result of changes in organisational and legal status without changes in the location and scope of benefits and with employment so far, it should not be difficult to obtain the appropriate consent of the Director of the NFZ to such transfer. I therefore ask the Department of Legal Affairs of the Ministry of Health to respond to the section of the Senator's Office's opinion that I have quoted. I hereby allow the Marshal to forward the text of this statement with this opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u102	Senator Jan Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u103	Dear Marshal, I'd like to read a statement made by 26 senators. The statement relates to such an important and tragic event in Polish and world history that it is impossible not only to notice the anniversary of this event, but also to pass over it indifferently, both because of the tragedy with which humanity had to face as a result of the Bolshevik Revolution and communism, and because the effects, sometimes less visible at first sight, of that tragic experience are also present today in our reality. And so it will always be when any group of people are trying to force alleged happiness into public space in violation of fundamental divine and human rights. It was an introduction from me. And now the statement of 26 Senators of the Republic of Poland on the 100th anniversary of the Bolshevik Revolution in Russia. In November 2017, the 100th anniversary of the outbreak of the Bolshevik Revolution in Russia, one of the most tragic events in the history of the world, which resulted in the communist party taking over power based on the atheistic ideology of Marxist and totalitarian rule practice. Over the next decades, Communists have mastered a large part of Europe, including Poland, as well as many other countries. Everywhere they gained power, they set up labor camps and prisons in which they tortured and murdered their political opponents, deported and expelled entire nations from their homes, provoked famine and spread false propaganda, reaching with Bolshevik ideology also to the left-wing environments of the free world. According to historians, nearly 100 million people, including 65 million in China and 20 million in the Soviet Union, were killed by Communists in 1917 and 1991. Poles also died at the hands of the Communists, including more than 110 thousand in the years 1937 and 1938 in the Soviet Union and more than 150 thousand in the years of the Soviet occupation in the period of World War II. In the post-war years, until 1956, more tens of thousands of Polish patriots died in battle or as a result of communist judgments in the country. Today we recall this tragic event to condemn the ideology and politics of communist governments against God and man. Communist rulership has affected the fate of several generations of people who have been deprived of the right to a decent life. Let it be a warning to the next generations. Warsaw, 15 November 2017 There are still signatures of 26 senators of the Republic of Poland. I'm handing over the document, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-15-senat-50-2.u104	Thank you. Would any of you like to make a statement? No. I'm informing you that... there's no messages? No. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 50th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The 50th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[Meeting adjourned at 13 minutes 55]]
