ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u1	The third problem is that there are no local authorities in the group of organisations that are supposed to enter these celebrations, and this should cover the widest possible social action. It's obvious. After all, it will be in a specific place, in a particular city, in a municipality or in a district and local governments should be involved. I'm thinking too. And I'm calling for an amendment like that. . that local governments and other organisations should indicate, delegate their representatives, just as political parties or political coalitions delegate their representatives. Such a principle should also be adopted in the case of NGOs, social organisations and local organisations. The president will choose. How do we get this initiative to find support, how do we get those actors who are needed to enter on their own? I think the local governments should be here, we should take the local authorities into account. That's my point. These aren't minor remarks. I therefore propose 4 amendments. I will not surrender to such a light blackmailer that everyone is to vote or everyone who loves Poland is to vote. I don't want to settle here. In accordance with the statement I heard here Who loves more, who loves less, but I will not vote for this law without these amendments, I will not, and I am not afraid to say it. Finally: there is already a secular tradition here that Senator Żaryn always reports the Catholic Church, for every bill or resolution. Mr. Senator, the Catholic Church came from Polish society. And there were different people there. There were priests, bishops who supported our path to independence. But there were also those who collaborated, collaborating with the conquerors. And some even hung in the gallows. And you say... You're typing the Catholic Church, fine, fine. But you're talking about Bursch, Julius Bursch. He's a Protestant. Well, you can't do that. You can write about the clergy, but the clergy are different... Your amendment was more specific. But the clergy behaved differently. I don't want to discuss it right now, but I have to say it because these kinds of proposals are being made every now and then. They behaved differently. They also behaved differently in times of maturity. 5% appeared against communist power, 10% actively supported this authority, and the rest tried not to interfere, thought that the most important thing was to carry out religious tasks. And I understand the rest. But the people who were active in this or other matter were basically the same among the clergy as among the rest of our society. Because the clergy are growing out of society. And it represented a different attitude to every authority, to the power of the time, to possessive power, and then it looked like that. So I'm making four amendments. I hope that they will be taken into account, and my comments, my concerns, my objections as well. There you go, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u2	Thank you. Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u3	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will be brief, because mostly I agree with the statements made by Marshal Borusewicz and colleagues. I address Mrs Sadurska, but through my committee there were historical resolutions, which had various kinds, so to speak, views of history. And what we said at the meeting: that the bill came in too quickly, that he was not so well consulted that there would not be a debate here... I respectfully listen to my fellow historians because they have so many arguments on the one hand and on the other. Senator Jackowski, who is a historian, will also speak in a moment. And yet, although he is supposed to represent the right side, he reminded us of Ignacy Daszyński, who, by the way... Mr. Borowski emphasized his merits, in Krakow we respect this character very much and flowers appear at any time at Rakowicki's cemetery. Let me say this: I agree on this national word, because we cannot ignore everything that Marshal Borusewicz said, as well as colleagues before, among others. Senator Rulewski's friend. If the Act had the title of the Act concerning the Cows of the Polish Independence Centennial, I suspect that it would not cause such controversy. We're gonna settle this tomorrow at the committee meeting because there's been so many amendments... and I'm gonna run them. And I'd like it to go on record... I would like to remind you that, at the committee meeting, and during the debate at the Senate, we clearly stress And this could also be heard in the statements of Marshal Borusewicz For us to remember that at the head of these celebrations, this group is headed by the President of the Republic. And there were words here that these celebrations, thanks to the fact that he is the president of all Poles, would not become a place for campaigning. That's the kind of hope I end up with, Mr. Marshal. Thank you for your permission... for your opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u4	But it's your rule law. [[That's what they say.]] You don't have to thank me, senator. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u5	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I am very pleased that this bill has triggered such a debate. This shows how historical issues, issues of recovery, especially in terms of Poland's regaining independence after 123 years of captivity, raise lively reactions and discussions. And that's very good, because it's thanks to this mutual exchange of views that we can all enrich ourselves, that we can exchange comments and views. I, of course, am a strong supporter and advocate of this law. I am pleased that the Committee on Culture and Media has unanimously delivered its opinion to the High House. I am also pleased that amendments were taken into account during the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, including an amendment transferring the names of the founding fathers to the preamble, which was, from the point of view of legislative correctness, but also a certain uniqueness of this law particularly important. And the wording that we have discussed in the committee for a long time, especially where six prominent Poles were mentioned, who were widely recognized as fathers of our independence... The point was that this catalog is obviously not a closed catalog in the sense that there were also other outstanding characters that contributed to this huge work. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the celebrations, which I understand, will actually take place throughout 2018 and that the aftermath of these events or celebrations will also be in the following years, because, after all, the committee appointed by your President is not set up accidentally, only for 2018 or will not only be set up for 2018. And that's very good, too. I would like to draw attention, for example, to an issue which is an important issue in my constituency in northern Mazowsze, in the Ciechanov subregion. Namely, in Mierzanów near Grudusk, in today's Ciechanov County, on 1 December 1867 Ignacy Mościcki was born, the later long-term president of the II Polish Republic was present for 13 years, from 1926 to 1939. But also an outstanding scientist, co-founder of nitrogen plants in Puławy, a successful man not only in political science but also in science. Undoubtedly, he is a very important figure of the interwar 20th anniversary, although he was not directly so active in the events of 1918. I know that it has been addressed and I am addressing Minister Małgorzata Sadurska here. The request of the Museum of Nobles in Ciechanów to take over these ceremonies, which will be rather local, because it is in northern Mazovia... But this character is important enough. It was also the President of the Second Republic of Poland. The President's patronage over these festivities would, in my opinion, be most appropriate. The inclusion of such celebrations in this rich calendar of events that will take place in the jubilee year 2018 would be valuable. I would also like to draw attention to other events that may be included in the calendar of the centenary of regaining independence. Well, I supported the idea of Captain Cichocki, an outstanding Polish sailor who will participate in the Sydney races at the end of this year. The completion of these races in Hobart is scheduled for 1 January 2018. As far as I know, this catamaran led by your captain will be the only Polish unit to participate in these very difficult and very prestigious regattas. This is also some form of promotion of Poland, and above all the possibility of promoting the century of regaining independence by Poland. And here I would like to thank Minister Sellin because I have written to him on this matter that he has taken an interest in this issue and has not excluded the possibility of some form of support for this project. It's a calendar... I think that each of us senators in this House is able to identify all kinds of important events from its region, figures, institutions related to the independent Polish state. This calendar will certainly be very rich in events, of which I am happy and therefore express my greatest satisfaction. I hope that the committee chaired by President Andrzej Duda will be these celebrations on the part of the Polish state... maybe he didn't certify, because that's a bad word in this case, but he just gave them the right rank. Very many events will have a strict character local, regional, national or nationwide events will be of different rank. And here I would like to point out, by the way, that in my circle of third-May celebrations or on the occasion of November 11, there are organized regardless of political views by local authorities, by presidents or mayors of Płońska, Mławy, Ciechanów, Przasnysz, Żuromina and have the same scenario: there is a Holy Mass, there is a solemn march, the appeal of the fallen, or the laying of wreaths. These celebrations are religious-state or religious-patriotic, and they are all present. There are no divisions, it is not that supporters e.g. Left or some institution organizes them separately etc. No, everyone participates together in these events: PSL, PiS, PO, Modern and other contemporary political formations that operate on the political stage. This shows that these conflicts, sometimes caused by the media, maybe relate more to these major cities, and especially to Warsaw. But this is not a picture of Poland as a whole. And finally, I would like to draw your attention... Because here Senator Żaryn has tabled an amendment to include in this preamble the role of churches, including Catholic churches, which does not mean that only Roman Catholic ones, because there are various Catholic rites But also Christian churches. Here was the bishop of Bursche. I would like to point out that the Archbishop of Warsaw, because he was not Cardinal yet, Alexander Kakowski was a very active participant of all that was in the years... at the end... since the act of two emperors, i.e. since November 5, 1816... [[Nine hundred!]] Sorry, a thousand nine hundred, of course. 1916 And realizing perfectly well... And there are excellent memories of the Cardinal. It's such a thick volume, in which exactly and in detail, day after day. It's basically even a diary. It describes these events. Recognizing the political tensions between the different left-wing, conservative and realistic trends, i.e. those conservatives who also had their point of view, independenceists as regards the left-wing environments; realizing all this, however, he issued very clear dispositions for priests and sent many prominent priests to the Interim Council of State, among others. A later bishop... I mean, it's not him. But he participated in this work, for example Bishop Przeczysecki The later bishop, then the priest. The whole range of various prominent figures of the Church participated very actively in this. From this point of view, it was a very bold and risky decision. There was also the role of Achilles Ratti, who at first was such a representative of the Holy See, because he was not in the rank of a nuncio, because at that time Poland did not exist. as a separate country. These forms of activity is a very interesting area, which also requires a lot of scientific research, and in any case shows that here the role of the Church was evident. However, it is important to remember that the German administration was more Protestant when it comes to the Catholic religion. Although Catholicism in the German Empire was, of course, almost equal in the sense of the number of believers And especially the Russian administration... After all, it was a significant territorial area of the later Second Republic. It was a state, however... [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm almost done. ...Anthical, which is a lot to say here, because all the adventures and difficulties that Roman Catholics had were also connected with political tensions. This is a very interesting time and I am glad that this idea was created to also take the role of churches and religious unions into account in this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u6	Thank you very much. Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u7	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Senators and Dear Senators, There are a few threads I'd like to share with you. Well, Mr. Senator Jackowski just said that now it's such an anniversary agreement. 'Cause we're talking about the anniversary of independence. That self-government, that beautifully, nicely, that Holy Mass and that we carry out peacefully... [[In my district, Mr. Senator.]] [[Me, too.]] In your district, right? And let's remember what happened not so long ago when the opposition was different and when the previous president, Bronisław Komorowski, organized the Independence March, let's remember how it was, in the name of the anniversary of independence what was happening. Well, it's different now because there's another opposition. [[Eagle of gingerbread.]] There's another opposition. Well, that's the facts. [[Eagle pie.]] Those are the facts. And I'm glad, because there is really no dispute between us today in principle, in terms of form, I think about people, and about historical facts. He was right to correct... This may not be a dispute, but the question of whether the year 1922, or 1921, and actually here we are absolutely agreeable, who participated, to whom we owe, what events, what uprisings, etc. There is absolutely no dispute here and nothing is controversial. The principle that the Pole has a need to celebrate in a special way the 100th anniversary and the following years, which actually determined our freedom and independence... After all, also the uprising, starting with the Wielkopolska, which lasted still in 1919, then the Silesian and Polish-Bolshevik Battle... This, of course, should be mentioned, and here the assessment is clear. If then the nation, and we emphasize that too, stood up to fight for freedom As Marshal Borusewicz said As a multi-national country with very broad minorities... I want to say... I'm a lawyer by profession, I know the history of my lawyer. How many people of free trade who were of Jewish origin signed up as great patriots of Poland... That's just an example. But, ladies and gentlemen, the point is that this committee, which is naturally headed by the President, and this is not subject to discussion, should be a symbol of this very great contemporary unity, I stress: contemporary. So it cannot be imagined that it would not be written that it would take place outside the borders, but in this committee it should clearly be made clear that it should be explicitly included in the act of the Polish people. And who, if not the Senate, the guardian of Polonia, should ask for it? It is said that people living abroad with Polish roots are numerically about half of the population that lives in Poland. I am not saying that there should be such proportions, but we have restored the Polish Consultative Council to the Senate Marshal, which works wonderfully. Why shouldn't this advice delegate representatives to this committee? [[Talking in the O.R.]] We are and say this, too, is my duty as the head of the local government committee, the Republic of the local government. Of course, individual self-governments have the right and want to organize these celebrations, because they have already been organizing them for years. But it is difficult for the central, most important committee to run out of representatives of the Polish Towns Association, the Polish Districts Association and the Polish Voivodship Association. Well, it's hard to imagine that this representation at the national level, at the presidential level So the highest one was missing. The same goes for what he said... I am also the co-author of the amendments, which he referred to very widely and deeply, so to speak. Mr. Senator Rulewski. The senator was very clear... maybe not about the appointment, but about the invitation to this committee of representatives of the states that favored us or influenced the international situation. Well, we remember, for example, the President of the United States who influenced that freedom we regained. That's very important, too. The point is that this is included in this bill. Of course, the President can invite them. There's a rule that he can do this, but we need to show that what's written in the membership bill of this committee is a minimum minimum minimum, although the president can still co-opt someone there. Well, I'm sorry, the committee's amendment took into account the scientific and creative environments. Very well, but why aren't there self-governments here? No Polonia? There are no representatives of other countries? No national minorities? Well, it's the Church we're talking about. And rightly so, because the Church played a great role. After all, there were legendary priests, heroes of the Polish-Bolshevik War and the Battle of Warsaw, but ordinary parish priests also often perpetuated this unity, our patriotism. That is right, I absolutely agree, but this representation under the president's leadership must indeed include the most important segments of our society, so to speak. This can't just be a representative of the president and the government. Right? It can't be the pity of government members and a few extra members. It matters, I would say, symbolically. Well, not just symbolic, but symbolic as well. This is very, very important. Therefore, in support of this initiative, of course, I also support these amendments. I believe that these amendments, which were tabled by both Marshal Borusewicz and Senator Rulewski, should be taken into account, as I ask again. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u8	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u9	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll make two amendments to this bill. They're rather tidy, but they also make some sense, I'd say, general. The first concerns the question of years. We are here the years 2017 and 2021. Well, if we're already deciding that we worship a certain process, Not just the fact of regaining independence, but a process that is linked to it. We should end this in 1922, when this process is within the limits of decisions and actions taken by Poles and Poles. I am no longer talking about the issue of the approval of the Eastern border in 1923, perhaps by the Council of Ambassadors. It's really over. At that time decisions were taken to include the so-called "Polish State." Central Lithuania. Then also, in June 1922, Polish troops entered Upper Silesia and took possession of the area. The second amendment concerns the title and the name of the committee. Namely, at the moment, the title of the Act uses the wording of the centenary anniversary of regaining the independence of the Republic of Poland. In accordance with the suggestion of the Legislative Office And in the name of the committee, and of course also in the title of the act use the phrase: On the one hand, this will ensure the coherence of the title and the name of the committee itself with what the law says, because then the phrase "recovering independence" by the Republic of Poland is used all the time. On the other hand, it makes even more sense; namely, the phrase "Recovering the independence of the Republic of Poland" suggests that such a being as independence of the Republic of Poland exists and someone outside us regains this independence. In a sense, Poland is the subject of this process. In fact, it is the opposite, because Poland itself regained independence. Recovering independence was done by the action of our citizens, our authorities, by the Republic of Poland. This should therefore be clearly stated in the title of the Act and in the name of the Committee. We have regained this independence ourselves, and with great sacrifice, with great effort, with great bloodshed, against unfavorable forces, especially our neighbours. No one's ever given it up for us. That is why this is the regaining of independence by the Republic of Poland. 2 more comments not related to the amendments. The first concerns several times the problem of why there is a national word in the title of the law and in the name of the committee, limiting the circle of persons to whom the law is dedicated. Well, on the contrary, ladies and gentlemen. We are talking about celebrations now, under the current constitution. I will read you the introduction, which is the preamble, of course, not all of it, to this constitution. For the sake of the existence and future of our Homeland, having regained in 1989 the possibility of sovereign and democratic decision-making about its fate And now, here's the thing. We, the Polish Nation All citizens of the Republic of Poland... The word "nation" in the Constitution is understood as a general public, regardless of the declared or presumed nationality. The people are general citizens, few of them are not only general citizens living in Poland, but also those who have Polish citizenship and are abroad. This also applies to citizens outside Poland, because they also have Polish citizenship. The primary category is citizenship, and the secondary word is the nation. Therefore, it would be bad if, in the title of the act and in the name of the committee, there were e.g. the formulation of the national celebrations of the 100th anniversary, etc. Why? Because it would limit them only to the territory of Poland. And if we are talking about national, it means that all those who are Polish citizens can and of course should participate in these celebrations, both in the territory of the Republic of Poland and outside it, because the word "nation" means the whole of Polish citizens. Therefore, in the article. 4 The Constitution states that the sovereignty of the Republic of Poland belongs to the Nation, to the general public, i.e. all those who live in the territory of the Republic of Poland, are its citizens, but also to those who are "Whether it's temporary or even permanent" They have preserved Polish citizenship outside Poland. After all, they have the right to take part in elections. The national word in the title of the Act and in the name of the Committee is as appropriate, it includes all whom we propose to participate in the process of celebrating the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, little of that, we also encourage everyone outside. I would be against the fact that the committee would include people who are not Polish citizens; that would be a bit on the border. That's what I'd call it. Infringement of the principle of sovereignty. Do we want them to celebrate with us? Yes, it is. Surely in 2018 there will be national celebrations for which our friends, representatives of other governments and other nations who helped us will be invited, but that does not mean that they are to participate with us in the process of organizing the celebrations. They are to be guests, guests of the proud Polish nation on the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. And one last thing. I'm already addressing the Minister here. Minister, I do. In fact, according to what I said, when I asked you a question, I would not agree with you that this law is a general law. Well, I'm missing one aspect in this bill. What will remain after this 100th anniversary? It's about what I said, about the material aspect. You said in your reply, and rightly so, perhaps the committee will decide. But it would be better if we, as representatives of the nation, decided what is the main theme of the celebration, of course, apart from the subject matter itself, and what will remain in the material sphere after this time of celebration. What, in 2021 or 2022, if the amendment passes, will it remain after this 100th anniversary? That's what I miss about this bill. This is, unfortunately, more about the committee itself than about the celebrations, and there is no such a lietmotive, the main motive, determining how we will remember in a few or several years after the celebration that they were. That's the element, that motive doesn't exist. And we may not be able to complete it here anymore, but I hope that the committee itself will complete it during its activities, because in my opinion, however, it is lacking in the text of this law. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u10	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Mikołajczyk, Senator Szymański and Senator Mamytkow have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Boris-Damięcka. The discussion is closed. Did... [[More senators, I guess.]] In writing. In writing... [[We put it in writing, too.]] [[We did it together.]] In writing. [[Yeah, but the thing is, except for the speech.]] [[Yeah, except.]] [[Except, but there's a rule of reading everyone.]] The legislative proposals were tabled by Senator Rulewski, Senator Żaryn, Marshal Borusewicz and Senator Czerwiński during the speech. Didn't I miss anyone? [[But this is together...]] [[Voice from the room: Everyone's here.]] Together. Okay, okay. Would the President's representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? Would the Minister like to comment on the conclusions? [[Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Margaret Sadurska: Mr. Marshal, maybe on the committee.]] Good. Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Culture and Communications to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item two of the agenda: the Act amending the Act of. The Code of Administrative Procedure and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 439 and the report of the Commission In print No 439 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Legislative Committee, Senator Adam Gawada, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u11	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister! The Minister is still with us, and therefore I also address the Minister, but above all the High House. I would like to present a report by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Legislative Committee on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 9 March 2017 on the amendment of the Law. Code of Administrative Procedure and some other laws. At the committee meeting, a bill was submitted, discussed by Minister Mariusz Haladyj here. This law, I would like to stress, covers the largest reform process in many, many years or an attempt to reform the Code of Administrative Procedure. The fact that there is a need arises from many administrative proceedings, often chronic, several-year-olds. The record books are run for several decades. This is also due to the very complexity of these cases, the multi-level recognition of cases in several administrative and judicial instances, the application of different procedures in which decisions are often repealed and cases referred to for re-examination. Such practices have already led many entrepreneurs, especially micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, to investment paralysis and often to the cessation of further activities. We often also notice My office is also addressed with such requests or comments Overdeveloped, I would say, formalism or the extraordinary, great, overpowering of various procedures. From the information I have from the Ministry There are about 80,000 complaints per year that go to the courts. Well, they point to the kind of situations that have happened so far. We have often also faced excessive administrative penalties. There were often situations where the issuing authority saw the inadequacy of the penalty to the offence committed. Maybe not so much a crime as a misdemeanor. However, the procedures and the code of administrative procedure prevented it from being imposed. Therefore, this draft law responds to certain expectations and systematics whether it formulates a code of administrative procedure in such a way that it is simply friendly, applicable and targeted at the real needs of Poles, especially those who conduct business activities. The main objective of this law is therefore to introduce solutions that will improve administrative procedures, shorten their duration, inter alia. by granting parties the possibility to decide more widely on the exercise of their right to fully and twice the examination of the case in the administrative procedure. The number of casatorial decisions will also decrease, as the party will be able to prevent the case from being re-examined and an accelerated procedure will be introduced in which the administrative court will be able to verify the correctness of the casatorial decision. Finally, the third, very important objective of this law is to introduce solutions that will contribute to a more partnership of administration towards citizens by introducing detailed rules that allow for more effective implementation of the principle of enhancing citizens' confidence in public authority. This includes: a friendly interpretation of the law and the settlement of factual doubts in favour of the party and the use of methods of amicable settlement of disputes in the form of mediation. The Act aims to ensure the administrative adequacy of the financial penalties referred to at the outset to the cases of infringements. Until recently, often observed examples were punishments for illegal logging of trees on their own premises reaching tens or even several hundred thousand zlotys. I would also like to convey to the High House that, at the time of the procedure for the draft of this law in committee, the Legislative Bureau presented a dozen and a dozen different observations or comments. I would like to present to the House that 5 amendments have been adopted by the committee. Another 5 were not accepted, but were accepted by a minority of committees. The rapporteur, Senator Zientarski, will talk about it. Finally, I would also like to add that, in order to simplify or even meet the expectations of the discussions at the committee meeting, I would like to present, if Mr Marshal would allow, an additional amendment to the government draft law amending the law on administrative procedure. And that's an amendment to the article. 1 point 20: in Article. 96f in §1 after the words of the district court president, add words or to the list kept by the non-governmental organisation or university of which information has been communicated to the district court president. I point 2: after §1 add §1a as follows... I mean. §1a would then be read as follows: "Where the investigating authority is a participant in mediation, the mediator may only be a person included in the list of permanent mediators or in the list of institutions and persons entitled to conduct mediation proceedings conducted by the President of the District Court, or a mediator entered on the list led by a non-governmental organisation or university, of which information has been communicated to the President of the District Court.' The amendment is based on the need to ensure that mediation is carried out by a person with appropriate knowledge and experience in this area. To this end, it is proposed that an organic choice of mediator be made to lists of permanent mediators and lists led by NGOs and universities. At the same time, in order to maintain the consistency of the proposed §1a with the general principle expressed in §1 in Article. 96f, where, as mediators, they have been identified in particular as permanent mediators listed by the President of the District Court, this provision should be supplemented by lists of mediators led by non-governmental organisations and universities. As I said, this amendment seems to meet the comments made in the discussion. I have also proposed that this problem, if there is a problem, pass it on or proceed at second reading, as I have done here. And I'd like to hand it over to the marshal. At the end of this report As I have already said, I would like to thank the Prime Minister, as well as the Ministry of Development and Minister Mariusz Halady, as well as all those who took part in this very important law. The whole, the area covered by this law indicates that we are very strongly responding to expectations, ordering all the acts included in the Code of Administrative Procedure, so that this law is indeed a well-functioning law. And from this point forward, I would like to thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u12	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Legislative Committee, Senator Piotr Ziientarski, to present proposals for minority committees. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I must say that the minority is, of course, in favour of this submission and we believe that this initiative, which, I hope, will end today as it were. Indeed, it is beneficial and purposeful. However, since we're improving this, as we've just heard here, on important issues Even in what you said, Senator Gazweda, the rapporteur, I mean. We have indeed agreed that, by consensus with the Ministry, this issue of mediators will simply be supplemented by this and those amendments which have not been supported and which I am about to say, because that is my duty at the moment, i.e. present minority proposals, they should, in my opinion, be accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, briefly... This is indeed, as the rapporteur for the majority said, 5 amendments. Amendment 1 is actually formal because it consists in deleting the provision of Article. 96d §1, in conjunction with 96c k.p.a., because, in short, art. 96d c.p.a. states that if the participants of mediation have agreed to mediation, the administrative authority shall issue a decision to refer the matter to mediation. If they've agreed... There is a second standard that says that if they haven't given their consent, mediation doesn't move. The Legislating Office states that it is clear I and a minority of committees think so, too. It is the same standard that these 2 wordings contain the same legal standard. Only in one provision is it described, I would say positively, and in the other it is negative: there is agreement, we conduct mediation; there is no consent We're not doing it. I think it is. Let me get this straight. The littering of the bill, because it is a completely unnecessary recipe. And the second amendment, in my opinion, is very important, but in the majority's view it is unnecessary because it is clear. In my opinion, but not only in my and the minority committee, because also the Legislative Office, the issue is not clear. What's the point? In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 107 §1 point 9 of the Commercial Code. there is an obligation to instruct in the decision on the amount of the charge on the action or on the application or against the decision, if it is permanent, or on the basis of the calculation of the fee or entry of a relative nature. The use of a refund of the basis for calculation suggests that the provision refers to the value of the object of the appeal, which is multiplied by the interest rate, e.g. 5% , gives the amount due. And the legislators are all about that. There's a consensus and a majority and a minority of committees about that. So that this is an instruction about the rate of the fee, not the basis of the fee. This understanding of the terms "base" and "set" is widespread under tax law. Here is an analogy, as was clearly pointed out in the justification for the proposal to amend the Legislative Office. These terms shall not be used under administrative, judicial and civil procedures in respect of fees or alerts. It is therefore proposed that this provision should be formulated without the use of the terms "base" and "set" in terms of method of calculation. Because that's the essence of the thing, here you're taught how to calculate a fee. And another substantive amendment. In my opinion, it is necessary. I wonder why there's no agreement on that, especially since we're all in agreement on intent. The intentions and the majority, and the minorities, and the ministries are the same. It is a matter of silent termination of proceedings and of silent consent. Those are two different dates. The aim of the legislator was to create these 2 mutually exclusive models of conduct. And here's the deal. The silent termination of proceedings is to be a direct countermeasure against the inactivity of the body. In this case, the desired and implied form of action of the Authority will be the issuing of an administrative act, a decision, not silence. Silent handling of the matter after expiry of the time limit specified in the provision only means that there will be no state of inactivity. On the other hand, silent consent is an expression of simplification and acceleration. It shall be expressed in the absence of recourse by the authority to the option of objecting within a specified period. Non-objection will be a conscious act of the will of the administration. This means that silent consent is the approval of the authority to deal with the matter in the manner set out in the proposal. And here's the deal. The Legislative Office states that the wording of the article. 122a leads to the conclusion that it is up to the Authority to decide whether or not to proceed as part of a silent termination of proceedings. But it's not what the Ministry agrees with. In order to avoid this, the provision should be reworded in such a way that it is clear that it is the legislator who decides on the form of a silent settlement. Art. 122a §2 introduces the parenthesis definition, in brackets it is written: the silent termination of the proceedings, may be in parenthesis or in quotes, however to do so, then in parentheses there is a silent consent, and then the law does not use these terms anywhere. For the sake of clarity, the parenthesis definitions should therefore be deleted. As I say, we are not arguing about content, we are not arguing about change, we are all agreeable, but we believe that leaving this can cause confusion in the application of the rules that the ratio legis is seeking from the applicant and the legislator, which is also us. The fourth amendment concerns the reference to Article. 122 and amendment 5 indicates clarification. I believe that these amendments should be adopted. I will no longer submit to the discussion separately and, like the Senator, I will make amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u14	Of course. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Senator Florek.]] Senator Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u15	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The improvement of the administrative procedure should be supported and we will probably all vote in favour of the law, but before that, I would like to raise two points, because I am thinking about proposing one more amendment. There are two new topics: mediation and silent consent. I would like to ask you the first question about mediation. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 96a §4 we have the provision that a mediation body and the party or parties to the proceedings or parties to the proceedings may be participants. My doubts after reading this paragraph 4 result from the fact that the participants in mediation may be the authorities involved in the proceedings and the party concerned, and then the parties. I understand that mediation should take place in case something needs to be clarified, that is, between the parties, but when there is a leading authority and only one party, it is to conduct mediation... In my opinion, it may be a little bit of a break from responsibility, because you can take a mediator who will work out a position to make the right decision. I wonder if it would be appropriate to remove from the record the court and the party to the proceedings and the party to the proceedings, and then it would be as it is written, i.e. to leave the parties to the proceedings to participate in mediation. That is a question either to the rapporteur's senator or to the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u16	Is the senator going to answer or are you the minister? [[Yeah, me.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u17	Mr. Senator, we've been discussing this. I personally do not confirm these concerns, but in response to doubts I have already mentioned this by presenting a report on who can be called as mediator, and I have tabled an appropriate amendment that I have read. I understand you're referring to point 20, right? It's an art. The following Chapter shall be added to point 20 of Chapter II after Chapter 5: 5a as it stands. And now we're talking about art. 96f §1, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u18	Art. 96a §4, it's mediation. I quote one more time: The participants in mediation may be: the investigating authority and the party concerned. It's a little ambiguous for me that if the lead authority is conducting this procedure only with the party, it's difficult to negotiate here... After all, the organ is an authority to make a decision. So negotiate in case there are parties to the proceedings... Of course, I can understand that it is right and so on that such negotiations should be conducted with the parties. But in this case, No, no, no, no, And I'm talking about this paragraph, who could be a mediation participant.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u19	I mean, Mr. Senator, I'm reading exactly... [[About the mediator...]] This is §4: The participants of mediation may be... [[Yes.]] I don't share your concerns here. I think this record is good.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u20	Well, yeah, but the thing is, it could be a certain escape from responsibility, an escape from decision-making. This is the mediator... I understand you've been explaining to us who the mediator might be, and these changes... Because the point is, not everyone can be a mediator. And I think this clarification is the right thing to do. Yeah, but I'm having second thoughts about the fact that there's only one side to the organ's mediation. And that's why I'm having second thoughts. But then I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u21	Okay, thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u22	Mr. Marshal, I have a question for the representative of minority proposals, Senator Zieliński. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Oriental.]] [[Quiet, please. You're welcome.]] Maybe... [[We're listening. Well, well, well.]] [[There's a question for you from Mr. Czerwinski.]] [[It's for me, isn't it?]] Yes, it's for you. Mr. Senator, in your first motion, you suggest that we delete... [[I'm the one who'd have to see...]] Well, that's why I'm waiting for the text. [[I'm sorry.]] [[Voice from the room: It's in print with the letter A.]] [[Now. Yes?]] Yes, in this first proposal, you suggest that the article should be deleted. 96c added in the new chapter 5a on mediation. [[No, I'm not offering.]] Who? [[This was proposed by the rapporteur.]] I'm talking about a minority motion. [[No, the minority's motion for mediation doesn't apply, there's no such thing.]] [[Mr. Senator, get in the microphone.]] [[There is no minority request for mediation.]] I'll read it again: minority proposals... [[Which...]] Print No 439 A. Minority conclusions. [[I don't have that print.]] Application No 1: in Article. 1 in point 20... [[I need that print.]] ...the article shall be deleted. 96c. [[A voice from the room: This is what the senator is talking about.]] [[Yes?]] So we're... Are we already looking at the same print? [[Yes, please.]] And you argued that the normative content of this article... [[Yes...]] ...finds out the next article... [[Yes, sir. Yes.]] ...art. 96d §1, where it is written that if the participants of mediation have given their consent to mediation, the public administration shall issue a decision. [[Yes, sir.]] Yeah, but it's an art. 96c reads: "Mediacy shall not be carried out in the event of a failure to agree to mediate within the time limit referred to in Article. 96b §3. The time limit referred to in the article and paragraph cited here is 14 days, but there is a notice addressed to the page, let us assume. And now please note that if we cut out the article. 96c, is the deadline for waiting for the party to react in terms of whether or not it wants mediation, will not be. So that the removal of this article itself. 96c will cause us a gap in the law. And that's why I want you to think about it, because this minority proposal is going to decomposing a bill, decomposing a procedure. As I say, there may be a reasonable reduction in the law for one editorial unit, but there must be a 14-day deadline somewhere. We don't have a vocation for this term anywhere, please note. Nowhere, that is, if we remove the article. There is no way that the site has 14 days to answer. How He Doesn't Answer Short: no mediation. So, since you're already supporting this motion number one... [[Well, the only thing you can leave behind is art. 96c. And then we're dealing with a rule that mediation doesn't move.]] Yeah, but in the article. 96d, in turn, is a resolution. So you wouldn't have a legal form to report it. It's in the form of a resolution. We might have to compile these two articles. [[It's gonna have to be done...]] A simple deletion is certainly not enough. Is that so?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u23	We need to be more specific. [[Do you agree with me?]] I agree, because we're actually missing the deadline, and we're missing the deadline. Yeah, I agree.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u24	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Senator Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u25	I'm the one who might be here to see the Senator rapporteur again or the Minister. I mean, the silent handling of the case. It is stated that the case file contains a note of silence, indicating the content of the decision and its legal basis. And in the following article we have that, at the request of the party, the public administration, by order, issues a certificate of silence or refusal. So there's no decision here, there's a silent settlement, and that resolution only seems to be made at the request of the party. I'm having second thoughts, because if we're looking for 10, 20 years from now, And we know from experience, as it happens. A decision, a decision to settle a case... Surely it may be difficult to access such documents, the case file. Would it not be wiser for this provision to be made not only at the request of the party, but if the silent settlement of the matter ends, the appropriate provision is simply made? Then it would be clear when it was issued, what the date is, it would be an important document. That is the only point I would like to make in this direction, and depending on the answer, I will either prepare an amendment or not. Thank you. [[You're welcome...]] [[Mr. Senator, you're talking about art. One point 30, right?]] In short, it's exactly... [[Silent handling, paragraph 30.]] Yeah, chapter Silent handling. And there's art. 122f §1 that at the request of the party it appears... It is only a matter of whether we should make such a provision whenever we have a silent settlement when we do not have a decision or only at the request of the parties, because this would make it easier to reach documents in the future. I know from my own experience when you're looking for decisions from 50 years ago, it's sometimes hard to find... Although there is a record here that this information is left in the case file, but I think it would be much better for the transparency of the case... But it's just... Perhaps the Minister will be...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u26	At the meeting of the committee, as I recall, there was an argument that a certificate of silence or refusal to issue such a certificate could be issued and that the order referred to in paragraph 1 would be subject to a complaint. [[Yeah, but only at the request of the party, and I mean, generally, not just at the request of the party...]] I know, that was the discussion, but I personally don't have that kind of concern. If the Minister wants to fill in the blanks, you're welcome. I have no doubt about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u27	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. This may be a question more to the Minister than to the Senator rapporteur, but I will share this question. The Act does not specify the concept of established case-solving practice, as point 5 of Article. 1 of the Act states that administrative proceedings may not be of a two-way nature in the situations referred to in the specific provisions. Abstracting from constitutional arguments, because there is no uniformity of views on constitutionality or lack of constitutionality in terms of the necessity of two-instant administrative proceedings, I draw attention to the important arguments of both legal and practical nature. Firstly, the absence of a two-instant nature of the administrative procedure may not only result in the parties being deprived of the right to review the case twice, but also, in fact, detract from the operation of the so-called. administrative supervision of lower-level bodies carried out by higher-level bodies. Secondly, such regulation may aggravate differences in the practice of applying certain laws and where higher authorities are deprived of the possibility to verify such decisions. Thirdly, such regulation, according to lawyers, will lead to an avalanche increase in complaint cases to the administrative court, which in its essence is more formalized, time-consuming, as well as costly. Is the designer, Minister, planning to take steps on this?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u29	Mr. Senator, is that a question for the rapporteur? Because we're on... [[The Minister's office.]] Are there any more questions for the rapporteurs? Because we're at this stage. There isn't. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Hello, Minister Mariusz Haladyj. Hello, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development Mariusz Haladyj: Good morning.]] Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development Mariusz Haladyj: Thank you very much.]] In that case, I will redirect Senator Komarnicki's question to the Minister and invite him to answer. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. You asked Senator Komarnicki a question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u30	In fact, three questions have been asked, so if I may, I will add to Mr Gadawada's statement on Senator Flork's question. Let us remember that mediation is not an organ negotiation with a party, and the mediator is not a person who formulates any demands. The mediator makes it easier to communicate. Perhaps some dissonance can cause us, thinking about mediation, to imagine civil mediation all the time, but civil mediation is different from administrative mediation. I cannot apply one to the other when it comes to comparing this institution, because the mediator neither makes decisions nor proposes any solutions to the parties, and the body does not negotiate with the party. The body shall be bound by all provisions, in particular Article. 7, when explaining the facts, i.e. it must explain it as if underneath, must explain in depth every circumstance, he here has no possibility of making any concessions for the party. Administrative mediation between the authority and the party can be more useful to clarify a certain factual situation, a legal state, not to communicate only through letters, but only to explain the motives e.g. the legal status of the party to clarify certain circumstances of the facts. And thanks to such a conversation, dialogue can be led to the fact that, instead of proceeding for a year, which is formally... instead of such a shift in writings, the party and the body are able to explain all the circumstances and mediation will end in a decision, as in evidence proceedings without mediation. So that from here we propose to maintain the possibility of leaving this institution in the bill. As far as the silent handling of the matter is concerned, I will only say briefly, because Mr Gadawada has already spoken on this subject. Let us remember that when it comes to the silent handling of the matter, it is a specific procedure. If Mr. Senator is talking about the fear that in some years you won't be able to get to the case file, then we would say, in such a situation, that it is for this purpose to issue a decree or a certificate in the form of a decree that if the authority loses the file, then after these 50 years we will reach the site, after these 50 years we will rip this document out of it. Well, it seems to me that this assumption is so illusory, because it is the organ's responsibility. There's an annotation in the case file that the case has been handled silently. Today we already have in Polish law procedures related to the silent handling of the case. In their case there is no compulsory issue of such certificates either, because this is also the specificity of such proceedings. It therefore appears that the issuing of a power to the party to the order will not fulfil this purpose, since the party itself does not need this document. And finally, art. 15, that's a two-instant... I mean, I'd start by saying that, in our opinion, and we've looked at the case law, there are no conflicting judgments. I would say that the constitution actually rules, because the constitution, when it comes to duality, refers, but to court proceedings. Administrative or non-court proceedings are referred to in Article. 78. That is exactly how it reads: "Each party has the right to challenge decisions and decisions given at first instance. The exceptions to this rule and the procedure for challenge shall be governed by the law. So the constitution explicitly defines the admissibility of exceptions to the principle of duality. But, of course, there should be a two-way procedure when it comes to judicial proceedings, and that is decided by the article. 176 constitutions. So here we're just considering a certain... When these procedures are reviewed... Today we know that in some proceedings this duality does not fulfil its role. I mean, she de facto introduces an additional circulation or an additional stage of procedure. But if the effectiveness is at a very, very low level, then basically the question arises as to whether this duality of proceedings before the authority should be preserved. Let us also remember that in this law we do not prejudice which proceedings will not be two-way. We're just gonna be doing this review. If we consider that this procedure can be brought into one-stop proceedings, then Parliament will be dealing with such a change every time, because it will require legislative changes. [[I just wanted to thank you, Minister, because this last sentence explains everything to the end that this is not a final closure.]] No, absolutely not. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u31	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? No. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development Mariusz Haladyj: Thank you.]] There was no written response. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. Now, for the record, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk and Senator Antoni Szymański have made their speeches in the debate for the minutes. I would also like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Adam Gawada. Anyone else? [[Voice from the room: Augustine and Martynowski.]] And Senator Augustine and Senator Marek Martynowski. Is there anyone else? Because these are the people I've been given. The discussion is closed. I'm just letting you know that-- Oh, I'm sorry. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? Minister? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development Mariusz Halady: We spoke at a committee meeting...]] No. I'm asking because you have the right to respond to the conclusions, but not the obligation. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development Mariusz Haladyj: No, thank you.]] Good. Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Legislative Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in order to facilitate the recovery of claims. The text of the Act is contained in print No 442, and the report of the Commission In print No 442 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Legislative Committee, Senator Adam Gawada, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to present a report of 3 joint committees, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Legislative Commission on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 9 March 2017 amending certain laws to facilitate the recovery of claims. During the committee meeting, Minister Haladyj presented the justification for the proposed law on facilitating the recovery of claims; he spoke of difficulties in obtaining timely payment from debtors and issues related to this often due to payment congestion. We know very well that this is one of the most common and most serious problems of many entrepreneurs. From the information that I also obtained from the Ministry, it appears that about 10% invoices in 2015 were paid in Poland with a delay of more than 90 days. In recovering payment, time is very important, as each of us knows very well, because this time and extended recovery procedure often cause perturbations and financial collapses of many companies. The essential objective of this law is therefore to strengthen the rights and guarantees for creditors, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises. The Act introduces in the legal system a number of solutions aimed at increasing the reliability of the assessment of the counterparty's ability to pay or the financial condition of the debtor, as well as increasing the effectiveness of obtaining payment of principal claims, interest rates and costs of the process. The amendment will provide wider opportunities to obtain information on the liabilities of a potential counterparty from economic information offices and registers covering public debt data. The Act amends the Civil Code Act of 23 April 1964, the Civil Code of 17 November 1964, the Civil Procedure Code of 17 June 1966 on Enforcement in Administration. It also amends the law on combating unfair competition, the law on access to public information, the law on liability of collective entities for offences, the law on public procurement, the law on liability for violation of public finance discipline, the law on public finances, as well as the law on collective redress and the law on the provision of economic information and the exchange of economic data. I would like to stress here that the amendment to the Civil Code Act, which is very important, modifies the rules of liability of the joint and several investor and contractor in the construction process. According to the novel, the investor will be jointly and severally liable with the contractor, with the general contractor, for the payment of the remuneration of the subcontractor due for the construction works carried out by him, the specific object of which has been notified to the investor by the contractor or subcontractors. I would like to refer here to the reasons put forward by the Prime Minister, by the Minister. In the explanatory memorandum to this law submitted for the procedure in the Sejm we read that the biggest problem related to payment of the debt occurs in the construction industry. To illustrate the scale of the debt, 13 of the 61 listed companies operating in the construction industry are entered in the Register of Insolvent Debtors of the National Court Register and their outstanding debts together amount to more than PLN 4 billion, which represents 46% the sum of the debts of all listed companies. In addition, the recovery situation is aggravated by the fact that the number of cases brought before courts has been increasing steadily for years. In 2015, around 6.5 million cases were brought to the courts. The impact of cases in regional courts in 2015 increased by 319% compared to 2007 and the number of cases remaining to be dealt with from previous years increased by 790%. In addition, the average duration of proceedings in economic matters in 2015 was approximately 14 months in district courts. That is, over 41% of economic cases have been identified for more than 12 months, over 25% For more than 2 years, including a diagnosis of up to 10% cases lasted longer than 3 years. These are the data from the justification submitted in the Sejm. We believe that the kind of situations that have taken place in connection with the construction of large infrastructure facilities we have witnessed, we have observed this... Therefore, these changes are in my opinion and First of all, I don't know what to do with it. In the opinion of the Ministry, it is very well-founded. The second group of proposed amendments are amendments to the Civil Code, with which the amendment of the Public Procurement Law corresponds. These changes also include, as I have already said, the Code of Civil Procedure. This is mainly due to the increase in the value threshold of the subject matter of the dispute for cases recognised in simplified proceedings from PLN 10,000 to PLN 20,000. The amendments to the Enforcement Act in the administration are also intended to create a Register of Public Claims covering information on public claims. As I said, these changes proposed at different levels, there are quite a few in the various acts, and I will not discuss them all. At the beginning of my speech, I presented only a brief information, which laws include. I would also like to present to the House that 13 amendments were tabled during the procedure for this law, all of which were accepted by the joint committees. I would therefore like to submit a proposal to the High Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u33	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Minister? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development Mariusz Haladyj: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u34	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you about one of the articles of the revised Civil Code. Actually, I'm talking about art. 6471 civil code. This is an article that governs the joint and several liability of the general contractor and investor for payment of remuneration. Specifically, I'm talking about the record... Why does the article proposed in the novel extend the deadline for the investor to object or object? Originally in the wording of the article. 6471 §2 of the Civil Code was mentioned for 14 days, and at the present time, in the present submission, there is an extension of the term to 30 days. I'd like you to justify this to me in some way, because... depending on your answer, I'm going to try to ask you further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u35	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u36	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, let's remember that we're changing this rule pretty comprehensively, as a result of the lack of opposition from the investor during this period. Well, the effect on the investor is very serious, that is to say, not expressing this objection means that he takes joint responsibility for obligations towards subcontractors or subcontractors. 30 days... Oh, let's remember one more thing: a sub-contractor can, of course... sorry, an investor may be a great developer, but an investor may be a small entrepreneur or, for example, an investor. housing cooperative. The investor gets the information, the notification, and now he has... well, he has a very serious decision to make. As far as greater investment is concerned, these reports can affect the investor even a dozen or more. So the 30-day term is also the term for which we tried to balance these rations, because we were influenced by comments from investors that the 14-day term was not enough for them. The notification may be submitted prior to the conclusion of the contract between the contractor and the subcontractor, so it does not block the contractor's relationship with the contractor either. The question of the period of waiting for the investor's possible opposition... The conversations between the contractor and the subcontractor may already take place at that time. Hence, these 30 days are simply certain, in our opinion, to balance this period, because let us remember that the statement still has to reach the addressee. But above all, it is the deadline for making an informed decision. That's why it's 30 days. Let us remember that the consequences of opposition are important.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u37	Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question about the article. 6471 civil code. It's about §5. I think it's a complete novelty. Please correct me if possible. In particular, the attempt to protect further subcontractors with regard to the payment of claims. I think I'm getting the right idea, don't I? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development Mariusz Haladyj: Yes, §5.]] Only that, please note, in the wording it is worded as follows: §1 and 4 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the joint and several liability of the investor, contractor and subcontractor And now, here's the thing. . who has entered into a contract with a further subcontractor for payment of the remuneration of the further subcontractor. However, there is no notification by a further subcontractor, that is to say, of the case covered by §1. So it's limited to contracts. Is that what this was about? Maybe I'm misunderstood. If so, please calm me down eventually.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u39	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u40	Senator, I hope to calm down, because §5... First, the introduction of liability to further subcontractors is not a novelty, because today's §3 also stands for this kind of relationship. §5 starts with the refund of §1 and 4 applies accordingly, i.e. the notification will also be made on the basis of the applicable rules, i.e. a further subcontractor vis-à-vis e.g. contractors. There's the same line of responsibility. [[But, if you don't mind, Minister, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u41	Yes. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u42	Yeah, that's right. But to whom? To a subcontractor who has entered into an agreement with a further subcontractor. Please note that §1 speaks not of the agreement... Let's say it's 4 degrees. We are talking about stage four, lowest, and third; this is often the case on large construction sites. This last subcontractor does not conclude a contract with a sub-contractor on third degree, i.e. it is not subject to §5, i.e. it is not possible to apply §1 because it is mentioned there, please note, only about the notification. That's what it's all about. There are two types: either a report or a deal. There's no contract with a sub-contractor on stage four, final, the one who's implementing... So the question is, on what grounds, if this is about who made the deal... Shouldn't this be extended? Or who called it in, I mean. which, I don't know, used this reservation, notification of §1. Then we'd have a complete...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u43	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u44	The notification is valid because this is the issue of the proper application of the rules, i.e. the application of §1 and some modifications resulting from the fact that we are already talking about other parties; we are not talking about the investor, because there are no investors among the other subcontractors, but there are contractors, subcontractors, subcontractors, therefore it is appropriate. Notification is a condition for the adoption of joint and several responsibilities at a higher level I'll tell you what. It's a construction project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u45	Thank you very much. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]] Please. Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u46	I'll stick to my sentence because in §1 there's no word "contract." That is not the word in §1 and that is the problem, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development Mariusz Haladyj: But we apply the provisions of §1]] Great, we refer to §1 and 4 in a blank, but we are only talking about these situations from §2 because in §1 there is no word about contracts. Please note that §1 does not contain the word "contract." It's just a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u47	However, §3 already refers to the contract as regards the first relationship. And let's remember that this is also a certain construction contract overlay. Solid liability is a contract overlay. So I can't imagine that... well, there's no way that someone does construction work without a contract. There must be a contractual relationship between the investor and the contractor and the contractor. We can still make an appointment. Perhaps I do not understand the substance of the problem raised by your senator, so I am at your disposal. We can still, if we need to... Because maybe there is still a room to talk, although this is a recipe that has really been consulted repeatedly. These principles are simply similar, both as regards §5 and as regards this first relationship.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u48	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u49	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, as far as the answer you have given me is to shorten this deadline from 30 to 14 days, I will not agree with you entirely, because the idea of these legislative changes is also that these small subcontractors should be paid in time. It's basically about making deals and subcontracting, isn't it? It's just a matter of shortening the deadline... Otherwise, let's do an extension of the term from 14 to 30 days. What can it do in practice? It can put pressure on these little subcontractors. Especially the so-called ones. short works, which are part of contracts with the investor. This may result in a significant part of the work being carried out by the subcontractor within 30 days of the notification. These are tasks that can be carried out within a short period of time, even within a few days. And if that's the case, if the investor raises an objection after the work is done, that's gonna be a problem. We can make big problems with these little actors.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u50	Senator, if we are already talking about this type of risk, if we consider it real, then let's also say that the exact same risk occurs at a 14-day time. After all, you can tell the subcontractors that there is a fence around a small plot and that he has to do it within 2 days. Well, two days is less than 14 days. The risk of extortion for this type of mechanism is exactly the same.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u51	Thank you very much. Do you have any more questions for the senator? [[No, no.]] No. Minister, I would like to draw attention to a point. Gentlemen discussed here with Senator Czerwinski, but there are no more people who have come forward for the discussion. We will close the discussion on this point in a moment and no amendments can be made, so I would urge you to discuss the problem that Senator Czerwiński raised, because if we move on to the next point now, And I assume that the bill will be adopted at the Seym stage, we will no longer introduce amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u52	That is right, Mr Marshal, but at the moment we are convinced that there is no need for this amendment. Perhaps the senator will feel more comfortable if we simply explain some nuances once again. We'll do it if we have to, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u53	No, well, I only do it in good faith... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development Mariusz Haladyj: Of course, yes, yes, the right point...]] ...taking into account the highest quality of the law that we are adopting, because I see that there are no members of the debate, we are about to move on to the next item and the end will not even be a committee meeting so that we can discuss it. Do you really have doubts about this point? Mr. Senator? [[I'm staying on my own, but let's just leave it at that, because it's kind of the Minister's decision, maybe he's got a better, wider view.]] This, Minister, you're taking this on your shoulders. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development Mariusz Haladyj: Yes, sir.]] Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development Mariusz Haladyj: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Mr. Senator Grabowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u54	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I will still allow myself not to fully agree with the Minister on the revised article. 6471 civil code. In the proposed amendment, the new wording, art. 6471 §1 of the Civil Code provides that the investor is jointly and severally liable with the contractor, with the general contractor for payment of the remuneration due to the subcontractor for the works carried out by him, the specific object of which was notified to the investor by the contractor or the subcontractor prior to the commencement of those works, unless, within 30 days of the date of service of the notification to the investor, the investor objected to the performance of those works before the subcontractor. Currently Art. 6471 §2 of the Civil Code reads as follows: "The agreement of the investor is required for the contractor to conclude the construction contract with the contractor. If, within 14 days of the Contractor's submission of the contract to the Contractor or its design, the investor does not submit a written objection or objections to the performance of the works specified in the contract or project, it is considered that he has agreed to conclude the contract. It should be noted that this will lead to an extension of the period of 30 days for the investor to object, which will result in the lack of joint and several liability of the investor for the remuneration of the subcontractor due, while not requiring the investor's agreement to conclude a contract with the subcontractor, where, as it should be noted, the legal nature of the agreement raises doubts and in doctrine and case law. Wouldn't that be in the interests of subcontractors, especially the smaller ones? To date, the 14-day deadline for the investor to object has sufficiently secured his interest by allowing him to verify the content of the contract with the subcontractor or its project and possibly object without endangering the interests of the subcontractors. After the entry into force of the new sub-contractor in question, in order to fully safeguard his interests, he should report to the investor in writing in connection with the amended §4 detailed subject matter of the works to be carried out by him before proceeding with the execution of the works. Such notification may also be made by the contractor. It should then wait 30 days for any investor's opposition, unless the investor's consent is expressed in an active manner, which the novel clearly does not foresee. The next step after the unsuccessful expiry of this period will be the conclusion of a contract with the contractor, possibly the conclusion of a conditional contract. Only then will it be possible to begin the work. What can this do in practice? The extension of this period to 30 days gives rise to the risk that it will be the subcontractors, especially the small ones, who will be pressured to join the works before the deadline for the investor to object. You can imagine such cases where the contractor will perform a significant part of the works or even all the works within 30 days of the date of the notification, and then the investor will object, which will result in the lack of joint responsibility of the investor for the works performed and the lack of protection of the subcontractors' interests, which is in fact contrary to the ratio legis of the standardization, with the provisions of this law. For the purpose of implementing the Article. 6471 of the Civil Code was the protection of subcontractors from unreliable contractors who entrust them with the performance of the obligation arising from the construction contract and do not pay them remuneration. In view of the above, I suggest that we consider leaving the 14-day deadline in force for investors to object to the commissioning of works to subcontractors. I'm putting an amendment on your marshal's hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u55	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Grabowski. The discussion is closed. Would the Minister like to comment on this proposal? Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u56	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Just a little bit. Once again, I would like to ask you not to look at the change of 14 days to 30 days in a fragmented way, because we are talking about a comprehensive change of the whole recipe. Let's remember... Maybe I won't say the same thing and talk about the consequences. What's the situation today? This agreement doesn't have its form, does it? That agreement doesn't have to be written, and that's why the big, huge doubts that the senator was talking about today. This proposal eliminates doubts as to the nature of this consent and as to the form of this consent. Let's remember that these 30 days are the period needed to make a full circulation... The subcontractor shall report its participation e.g. an investor. Within these 30 days, a possible opposition must reach this subcontractor. This is not a long time when it comes to the full circulation of information or the process of full communication between the party and the investor. It's not here today, because today's consent or objection... This objection may be made in any form. As a result, we have many years of court proceedings in which, in the course of the evidence proceedings, the party proves to itself, for example, who wore the vest and did the investor know that the workers on the construction site wore vests with the logo of this sub-contractor. The point is to prove whether he agreed or agreed to work by a sub-contractor. We're interrupting today. There is a clear form here about the investor's opposition and such doubts. It won't be anymore. There will be no longer these lengthy investigations of evidence. These 30 days are part of a complex of changes and they are also needed to ensure that there is no situation... Because it is that twice the visa must be issued to subcontractors if they do not receive this objection sent by registered letter. 14 days is needed for the same visa. By balancing the interests of all the participants in this contract and the various threats that you spoke of by the senator... Therefore, this period is not longer. After the whole consultation process, it seems to us that the 30-day deadline is optimal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u57	Thank you very much. As a legislative proposal has been made, I ask the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Legislative Commission to respond to the proposal presented and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the excise duty Act. The text of this law is contained in print No 441, and the report of the committee In print No 441 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u58	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On 23 March, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance dealt with this Act amending the excise duty Act. This is a government submission. The purpose of this law is to eliminate certain doubts as to the interpretation of the rules on taxation... of the exemption from excise duty of purely contaminated ethyl alcohol. It is also intended to seal the rules in this respect by requiring a compulsory notification to the tax authority for those taxable persons who purchase alcohol completely contaminated in the intra-Community supply of goods. During the discussion, the Minister, a representative of the Ministry of Finance, explained in detail all the provisions of this Act. At the committee meeting two senators took the floor: Senator Grabowski and Senator Czerwiński. Senator Grabowski asked if this amendment changed the scope of the bill. The Minister's answer was that the amendment of the scope of the law does not change. Mr. Senator Czerwiński... Senator Czerwiński asked about the scope of the subject matter. Senator Grabowski asked about the definition of tainted alcohol. And here the Minister explained that there is a problem with the fact that some methods of alcohol contamination... simply after some time alcohol oxidizes and contaminated alcohol becomes uncontaminated alcohol. This is important here, because contaminated alcohol is exempt from excise duty, and therefore there are significant revenue to the budget. The discussion was also attended by a representative of the Polish Chamber of Chemical Industry, who clarified the Minister's explanations on the contamination of ethyl alcohol, among others. Saying that pure alcohol, uncontaminated, is alcohol with a concentration of 96% and is considered to be in accordance with both Polish and European standards and contaminated alcohol is alcohol, the concentration of which is 90.96%. The bill was adopted unanimously by the committee. The Legislative Office did not raise any objections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u59	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Hello, Minister Wiesław Janczyk. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The Senator rapporteur has sufficiently presented the scope of the proposed amendments.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the sake of order, I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals in writing... [[Voice from the room: 2 conclusions.]] ...2 applications in writing were submitted by Senator Marek Martynowski. The discussion is closed. Do you wish to respond to the requests made by Senator Martynowski? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: If I may...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u60	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The requests made by Senator Martynowski... This is an amendment to the Act amending the excise duty Act and certain other laws. Its content shows that there is a desire to clarify the provisions of the excise duty Act in relation to the use of contaminated alcohol. A kind of tightening is proposed to record sales to customers who wish to purchase this alcohol in quantities larger individually than 20 l and with a capacity exceeding 50% resulting from volume. It seems that such regulation is justified, especially since if we consider the quantity of alcohol sold for receipts in recent years, for a period of one and a half years, i.e. until the middle of last year, sales amounted to more than 11 million l. The rapporteur of the committee mentioned the quantities concerning the import of contaminated alcohol. In fact, the legislative initiative was taken because of the information we have from the Customs Service about this type of size. It is estimated that the so-called method itself. Hungarian tainted alcohol was imported to Poland about 5.5 million l. When it comes to redistribution to individual customers, sometimes entities, and sometimes individuals, we are faced with an even larger volume, actually twice as large for a period of one and a half years. If we bring this to the annual data, it's gonna be a lot of numbers anyway. Therefore, it seems worth it for the High Senate and the Senate committee to recognise the substantive scope of this law. In my view, it is appropriate to consider it and I recommend this amendment to consider it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u61	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item five of the agenda: the law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care. The text of the Act is contained in print No 455, and the committee report In print No 455 A. I ask the committee rapporteur, Senator Waldemar Kraska, to submit a report to the committee. I would like to ask the senator to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u62	I'm sorry I'm late, Mr. Marshal, but there was such a rapid acceleration that I didn't make it. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Senate Health Commission a draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare. It is commonly referred to as the Hospital Network Act in the media, but it is really the basic system of hospital care provision. Mr. Marshal, High Senate, I don't think there's a person in this room who wouldn't be in contact with the health care department. whether it's personally or through your family. I think that's why we all know that the health system in our country needs to be changed. And it needs to be changed. And it's not in the interests of health professionals, it's in the interests of patients. Each change causes some anxiety, some fears, and even some fears. But the system that is now requires changes. And with these changes, you can't wait any longer. The current system didn't work. Law and Justice have the courage to change that. The law prepared by the government ensures the full safety of hospitals, as well as the full safety of their patients. The free market in health care has failed. Competition, a phenomenon in a sense right in health care, has become an end in itself. And it has become so-called. The devastating competition, which simply led to the failure of those who should care about our health safety. We all believe that more resources are needed for health care in Poland. But it should also be noted that these existing ones should be spent rationally. It's all meant to make the patient feel safe. The patient must feel that the health care system in Poland is for him, not the other way around. The Act makes quite a significant change in the healthcare system: it introduces a basic hospital health care insurance system, which is intended to be the main form of protection of access to hospital treatment benefits, highly specialised services, outpatient specialist care provided in hospital clinics, medical rehabilitation, drug programs, medicines used in chemotherapy and night and Christmas health care. There are 6 levels within the system, ranging from the primary level to the clinical hospital level. The qualification for the scheme shall be subject to the fulfilment of certain criteria. That's the simplest criterion. It is one of many that health care services must be provided for at least two years in order to be in this system. The qualification to one level shall be combined with an indication of the profile, scope and type of benefits provided under the scheme. The provider qualified to one level will be guaranteed to conclude an agreement with the National Health Fund and the scope of the agreement will be affected by membership to the level of qualification. The list of providers qualified for the different levels of the system will be drawn up and announced by the director of the voivodship branch of the National Health Fund. The lists will be valid for 4 years and appear on 1 July. The decision of the Regional Director of the NFZ branch is subject to a protest and, if not taken into account, to the President of the National Health Fund. A significant novelty introduced by this law is the flat-rate financing, covering together the profiles, types and scopes of the benefit scheme, which should allow healthcare providers flexibility in spending, the health needs of the site and the organisation of the medicinal entities concerned. In the procedures for concluding contracts with providers for the provision of benefits, there is a serious modification of the existing rules. The contest mode will change its current character to a complementary one. The Director of the NFZ Voivodeship Branch, on the basis of a comparison of the purchase plan with the benefits to be performed under the scheme, will conduct a contest of offers for benefits for which there is a need for proper satisfaction in the region concerned. The principle of contracting psychiatric care and addiction treatment services, as well as medical rehabilitation and outpatient specialised care in part not included in the system, have not been amended. The aim of the Act is to improve access to specialist services and to ensure comprehensiveness and coordination of outpatient, hospital and rehabilitation services. The referral to the hospital will allow you to obtain an outpatient benefit either in the hospital and to obtain rehabilitation benefits, depending on your specialist assessment. The Act is intended to ensure an adequate level of funding in hospitals, continuity and sustainability of financing to healthcare providers for access to health services and to organise the structure of hospitals. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! There are many questions about funding, especially the first lump sum. This raises these doubts, Art. 5, in which the legislator noted that the lump sum for the first settlement period would be at the level of the benefits granted and reported by the provider for 2015, taking into account the valuation of those benefits applied on the date of entry into force of this Law. I think it's good funding, from talking to a lot of directors, and I know they're very positive about it, and they're looking forward to it. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! During the committee's work many questions were answered by the Minister present here, so I think that if such questions are asked by the senators, he will continue to answer them. The Commission proposes that this law be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u63	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Health, Senator Thomas Grodzki, to present the proposals of the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u64	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Many doubts were raised during the work of the Committee on Health, which lasted over the admiration of Mr Kraska's well-managed meeting of the Committee on Health. One thing has to be said: both sides have done it with full conviction, in the care of patients, even though we differ in approach to the whole issue. And that's a positive aspect. This law is quite a large operation, in quotes and without unnecessary emphase, it could be said that a bit of a change in the health system, although Prime Minister Szydło presented it as one of the main reforms of Law and Justice, and yesterday in the committee there were words that it was basically a correction. So from a big cloud, maybe less rain. Anyway, by planning a smaller or larger operation, we're not quite able to predict all the side effects. And that is why as minority senators with Senator Czarnobaj we have tabled an amendment, which is to introduce for a year the provisions of this law in the form of piloting in 2 voivodships located at the extreme borders of the Republic of Poland Only after a year, when we see the washing process, how this law works, whether to extend it in this form to the whole country or modify it. The pilot always has some concerns, but in this case What, I hope, will still be raised in the discussion, it is possible because neither constitutional order nor the system of accounting for medical procedures is being shaken here, because it is to be based on uniform groups of patients, in short JGP. And maybe it would be a good idea to see if, in this system, patients would accidentally choose hospitals that work the old way, so to speak, their legs will vote whether they want to be treated in hospitals that are managed and settled in a new way, or in those that are managed in the old way. There are no contraindications to this, because the NFZ exists, patients have insurance, and as they are healing in different voivodships today, so they could also treat themselves later. I urge you to do this, especially because in the economic forum in Krynica, the Minister mentioned in several interviews that when it comes to the next reform of the POZ, it will be introduced in the form of piloting; it was even said that there would be special regulations in this area. And this change of minorities essentially boils down to piloting in 2 voivodships. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u65	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Blackbay. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u66	I have questions for the Senator of the rapporteur, two short questions. Mr. Senator... [[Senator Kraska?]] Kraski, yes. Senator Kraska. Mr. Senator, these questions came from the senator's statement. If you don't mind, I'll write it. That is, you said a very important sentence about the opinion on this bill. You told the senator that he's spoken to a lot of directors who are positive about it. I, too, have spoken with several and I would also like to say that many positive elements have been found in the bill's draft. However, I had a question. Mr. Senator, did you, as chairman of the Health Committee, come across any opinion of the associations? There is an association of directors of county hospitals, there is some forum of Polish employers in the medical industry. Has this kind of opinion been received by the President? Did you come across that opinion? That's the first question. And was it expressed in any form of opinion of any groups representing patients? There are different kinds of associations that work. Have such opinions been received by the President? Because I didn't touch them. I would ask you to answer these two questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u67	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u68	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, such a written opinion to me, neither from the patient groups nor from any associations, although patients, like all of us, if something new comes in, may feel some anxiety, some fear of this new system. But it seems to me that... I'm convinced that this bill is a bill turned to patients. And I think their access to healthcare will definitely improve.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u69	Senator Augustine. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u70	Mr President, as we know, the growing demand for medical services, which is to be answered, among other things, by this law, is linked to the progressive process of ageing of the population. 50% patients in the internist wards are today people after 60 years of age. Poland, however, stands out dramatically in terms of the level of specialist geriatric care and the number of geriatrics. The way to make up for this distance was to increase the number of specializations. Have you discussed how these specializations will look in a situation where geriatrics, i.e. Geriatric troops, are we not supposed to be in third-degree hospitals? Isn't that a risk of a heart attack for this specialization, so much needed, expected, recommended in the NIK and European institutions reports?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u71	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u72	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'm sure we have to agree that we have older people coming every year, older people who require this specialized care. It is very easy to say that only geriatric care, but of course that is not true. Such elderly patients are most often treated in internal wards, in internist wards. It's not true that this bill eliminates geriatric hospitals, because those hospitals that are right now There aren't many of them, but there are. They will continue to exist. The role of these hospitals, in line with the philosophy of the Ministry, is not that they should be treated mainly by older people in these hospitals, but that these places should be a centre where geriatric specialists are trained, who could work in many internist departments across the country. I think there's pressure in this bill to make sure that such care is not only on geriatric wards. 'Cause these branches, no matter how much we set them up, they're still not gonna be enough. Only that geriatric specialists work in internists in hospitals, voivodships, or powiats.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u73	Mr. Senator Rulewski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u74	I'm asking the senator the rapporteur a question. But if the answer to them is beyond his ability, I would like the Minister, our fellow senator, to answer that question. The question is based on practice or on observations concerning the hospital in Znin, the county hospital, which indicated, observed 2 typical phenomena, I think, for many such hospitals in Poland. In the framework of this reform, this networking, the establishment of a network of hospitals was foreseen to destroy medical environments, probably even medical schools, especially in the case of orthopedics? That's one thing. It's about school and the environment... Second question. It is obvious that with the liquidation of orthopedics, e.g. In the Harvest, there will be a change in queues. The queues that are calculated in these hospitals for a few years will suddenly be terminated. But that doesn't mean that the problem is solved. It's gonna be the other way around... This means increasing the problem by the fact that these people will need to be added to other queues in which there is also a structure. Therefore, are there measures to remove patients' upsetness, measures that would not delay their treatment and destruction of schools, among others. orthopedics?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u75	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u76	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I think there's a little bit of a misunderstanding about what you're talking about. The orthopedic unit that operates in the county hospital, because that's the kind of senator you're talking about, will be able to continue to exist, with almost 80%. will be cleared by the surgical department. Procedures that have been performed in the orthopaedic ward may as well be performed by these orthopedics in the surgical ward. If we add up to this overconfidence, which I suspect they were, it turns out that almost 100% The budget of this orthopedic unit will be kind of included within the surgical department... So here for the patient nothing will change at all, and in whether the management will change the sign and do surgery 1, surgery 2, or leave the sign of the orthopedic unit, the bill will no longer interfere, it will only be the responsibility of the management of the individual. So it's not gonna have any effect on the so-called. the length of the queue. [[So there's gonna be the same means that this could be implemented, right? Guaranteed funds...]] Senator, the funds will be guaranteed at the level of appropriations in 2015, which have been shown and reported to the National Health Fund. So nothing will change here.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u77	Thank you very much. No questions. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. I cordially welcome Minister Piotr Bite. Hello, Minister. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Gryza: Yes.]] Come on in. Enjoying your free time, I also welcome Minister Katarzyna Głowala. The Minister will present her position at the next point. Hello, Minister. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u78	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High Senate! Answers to questions and certain doubts have actually already been given, and perhaps some additional information is needed here. The process of working on the law, as well as on implementing acts, took a very long time. A significant part of the consultation, in this kind of working mode, with medical environments, with environments presenting different levels of hospitals... Such meetings were very many and these meetings resulted in some adjustments to the initial projects. That's why... And here to answer Senator Rulewski's questions The Palutian Centre for Health This is already a media issue on a nationwide scale, and it can be answered that this hospital is qualified to the first degree, as I recall, and all the profiles in which it performed the benefits are financed under the security scheme. As a result, among others. the discussion in the draft regulation, which is annexed to the draft law, is such a regulation that orthopedics and traumatology is, so to speak, attached to hospitals in the first degree, so there is no such concern. This is a voice of the environment that we took into account during the discussion. So there's no problem here. Your doubts about liquidation are completely unsubstantiated in this project. While I was in Bydgoszcz, I talked and answered my doubts again... probably not the director, but the head of the orthopedics department hospital and explained that there was no doubt here, because this department and this hospital meet the qualifications criteria that are... [[I don't recall this conversation...]] But I was in Bydgoszcz a week and a half ago, and I met with hospital directors. In this meeting he was among others. a representative of the Pałutski Health Centre. I feel like it was the head of the orthopedics department... this case is regulated and there's no risk here. These benefits are financed in their entirety. Another problem that was raised here was geriatrics. I can present the position of the Minister of Health in this area, which pays particular attention to the fact that it is very important for the elderly to seek as long as possible to secure in the environment of their lives. Staying in a hospital should be a short, maximum-targeted stay. A geriatric doctor, which I also know from my own experience, is a doctor who is needed Consultatively by all other doctors. It is he who can correct e.g. a large number of medicines that the elderly consume. He can see in the result of his experience some interaction between them and in such a simple way cause some correction of the treatment. That is why we definitely need geriatric doctors and we should educate these geriatric doctors. The point is that geriatric centers develop in clinical, scientific and teaching centers. And that's the idea. Geriatrics can be financed directly in national hospitals, e.g. clinical activities in which scientific and educational activities are carried out, in institutes and in hospitals in the third degree. Senator Augustine said that geriatrics aren't entering the third-degree system, and they're entering now. We add a full basket of hospital benefits to hospitals in the third degree, which is written in the bill. The aim is to ensure that medical activities in every dimension In the field of outpatient care and hospital care and primary health care... It's about getting medical support from a geriatric doctor. And that's why these geriatric doctors need to be educated. In addition, it must be said that geriatric profiles can be accounted for by internal disease departments. This report was explained by the Senator rapporteur. I think those were basic doubts about the questions that were asked. The matter of the amendment tabled by Senator Grodzki. Thank you very much for a climate that takes into account constructive and factual approaches to the debate on this bill. Well, it's a completely different discussion and conversation if both sides just have mutual respect and they see good intentions. So thank you so much for that sentence. But there is, unfortunately, a problem on the scale of the whole system, that the success or failure of a specific, chosen solution in a particular territory is determined by de facto... no, in this case the external system is decided de facto. That's the problem with such a defined pilotage. Because if there is another system in the external system, e.g. There's something else financed or something like that. is based on funding at a different level, then simply and simply the indicators that we are building to verify the correctness of the solution will not reflect the nature of this solution. Therefore, on a system-wide scale, the pilot solution is not the right solution. Moreover, I am deeply convinced that in the case of these specific pilots, the pilots would be positive, because in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship, where the senator is from, actually all relevant entities without any problems enter this security system. The same is true of the Podkarpackie voivodship. There was also a question of Senator Blackbay's opinion. As the Minister for Health has stressed this many times, there has been a really big conversation with many environments in this matter. Of course, opinions were different, because there are different approaches to this issue. But there were also positive opinions, presenting specific groups of hospitals of county hospitals, from certain voivodships .. who have spoken positively about this solution. So we also have positive information presented. For this reason, I would ask for a positive reference to the bill submitted.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u79	Thank you very much. At present, senators can report from a place lasting no more than a minute... Please remain, Minister, because there may be questions. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u80	Mr. Minister, two questions. The first will concern the situation of private hospitals in this system. Will they? and in what formula . covered by the possibility of contracting services? More specifically, how much is now spent on contracting services in private hospitals, and how much is foreseen for contracting in the new hand? That's the first question. And the other. But let me express my doubts here. And it's not just my opinion, it's my entire geriatric environment. Because do you, Minister, have a positive opinion of geriatrics on this idea that there shouldn't be specialist geriatric troops? Is that an opinion? Is it just you? Or do you have an idea? Because I have here letters from geriatric wards, from geriatrics who firmly claim that what you are proposing is wrong. I'd ask you to take that into account.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u81	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u82	That's the first question, first, whether it's a matter of private hospitals. The law does not refer to the ownership structure, but builds criteria for entry into the security system, and private hospitals are also included in the security system, mainly first-degree hospitals, as well as oncology hospitals, because there are simply these criteria being fulfilled. And here there's no differentiation as to who's the handler. There was a question about the financial resources. We've talked about this many times before, but I'm happy to do it again and explain it so there's no doubt. The security system under the bill and the draft regulations, based on the 2015 data, i.e. the data on the health benefits provided, therefore, the Senator rapporteur said that the bill states that the first lump sum is determined on the basis of the data from the benefits reports made by individual healthcare providers, i.e. hospitals 91% the value of benefits included in the reports in 2015. This is not the objective, this is the result, this value of benefits was realized in 2015 by hospitals belonging to the security system, including by non-public hospitals. Other 9% So that's 9%. which did not enter the security system, which completed 100% , all the benefits made under contracts with the National Health Fund, that is the area that will be subject to the competition procedure. It should therefore be assumed that similar relationships, of course only on the scale of the whole system, because here we are talking about the percentage on the scale of the whole system, i.e. at the level of the country, should occur in the case of contracting benefits, which will start if this law, of course, comes into force at the beginning of July. As far as your assessment of geriatrics is concerned, I have personally met with two assessments: one you have presented and the other one we have presented at the moment, with the arguments related to this security system. You just set different goals, these are different approaches to geriatrics. It should be mentioned here that there is a geriatric hospital in Katowice, which does not fulfil the direct criteria of this law, and perhaps many correspondence, the letters concern this hospital, which fears for its place on the market. But because of his specifics, yes, because of his specifics and because of the role of this hospital, he will be qualified for the security system on the basis of the so-called. a specific indication, when the branch director indicates hospitals which play an important role in accessing health care services after obtaining the opinion of the Minister for Health. So the case of this hospital... and the treatment, and the training of the doctors that are there, will normally continue on the basis of a contract with the National Health Fund. Building a certain overall criterion, which would include this particular hospital, seemed simply pointless. Ladies and gentlemen, in general in the system analysis, it is simply not possible to capture all the elements and all the system characteristics, therefore the method of direct indication is left in order to properly and competently complete this system. And as I said, I say this from my own experience, I think a geriatric doctor is definitely needed as a consultant doctor, because even a specialist doctor or a POZ doctor doesn't have... Of course, he has experience, he has knowledge in his field, but the way of the answer, so it's called, the body of an elderly person can be a little different than someone of a different age. The knowledge of geriatrics is certainly useful, necessary and in many cases the application of his orders significantly improves the patient's health. You have to educate geriatric doctors, and at the same time create mechanisms to make geriatric support at the level of every hospital. Besides, we have taken such measures because a geriatric evaluation procedure is required in the basket of guaranteed benefits. We're also working on a requirement for geriatric support, so that the hospital can count on geriatric support, or actually a duty of support... Only of course this is related to the fact that we should educate geriatric doctors.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u83	Thank you very much. Senator Grodzki. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal! Minister, I would like to clarify a point that was mentioned yesterday at the Health Committee. We all criticized the lump sum, saying it would be like this: whether you stand or lie down, a lump sum is due. It'd be a threat. I'll tell you what. However, it turned out that the lump sum will be calculated after one year on the basis of procedures for homogeneous groups of patients that the hospital will implement from the date of entry into force of the new rules. So we're going to figure out what activity was, how many procedures were done, and on this basis we're going to calculate roughly a new lump sum. The concept of overlimit or underlime disappears, there's flexibility between troops, but... Tell me how it's different from the contract then. Is this just a word changer? Because that's how the contract is calculated right now. The NFZ knows exactly how many procedures a hospital performs and offers a hospital a financing proposal tailored to its capabilities. So if a lump sum is really going to be calculated the same way, why is it called a lump sum instead of just a new contract calculation? Because it looks like it's just a cosmetic change in vocabulary.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u85	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for the question, because this question arises in a certain media assessment or environmental assessment of this project. I also thank you very much for this last assessment, because I meet with accusations, mainly from some employers, that this is a revolution. It's not a revolution, it's a certain correction of the system. Perhaps, by reference to the Prime Minister's words and to what one senator said, I would like to say that the change in health care is linked to several legal solutions. This is just one of the legal solutions that will still have to be continued. May I mention that we must continue to work on the valuation of benefits, which is the work for the payer. We still need to work on pricing in the form of tariffs, a tariff agency. You still have to work on a basket to refine it, make the right requirements, and take off those that are not right. Finally, quality must also be worked on and elements of quality assessment of the services provided must be introduced. So it's a whole series of events. This is the first statutory regulation to make a certain adjustment in the way health care benefits are financed and secured in the field of hospital care. Turning to the question about the lump sum itself... What the senator emphasized in his speech is also very important; the lump sum does not mean whether or not it stands, a million zlotys are due, as said by a politician in the Seym, only a lump sum is simply the method of budgeting found in the theory of a health organisation, which is that on the basis of activity in the current period, the amount of funding is determined in the next accounting period. But in order to look more closely at this issue, we need to add that the lump sum is only one I'll be right back. From forms of financing, because hospitals in the security scheme will have 2 forms of financing. One form is a lump sum and the other is the financing of separate benefits, which is determined by the Minister of Health on the basis of a delegation from the draft law. These are cost-intensive benefits, for which the material content is very high, and the settlement of these lump sum benefits would not be justified, as well as benefits whose lump sum would be unreasonable. An example of such benefits is e.g. implanting endoprothesis, cataract removal, birth or care for the newborn. You also need to add chemotherapy, radiation therapy, as well as treatments associated with... [[Voice from the room: Transplants.]] Yeah, of course, transplants and high-specializations, too. This is the whole list, but it has to be said that only part of the system is financed by a flat-rate method. The whole system is connected not only with the flat-rate method, because it is complemented by financing for the service, which takes place on exactly the same basis as now. And that's why this whole system is tightening, because as part of the financing for the service, we finance on the basis of a contract in which certain numbers are included, those benefits that could quickly exhaust, in colloquially speaking, a lump sum. So this is the whole thing: flat-rate plus service funding. It must be said that, according to estimates, the financing for the service represents around 40% the total benefits. And that's settled on the exact same principle as it is now. In turn, the lump sum is intended to cover other benefits. Indeed, this first lump sum is built on the number of benefits made in 2015 and valued at the date of the entry into force of this law. Depending on the performance of the contract during this settlement period during the next settlement period, the hospital will have either the same or less if it has done less or a little more if it has done more. What's the rule? Well, a lump sum is an attempt to remedy a situation where, and this is also a concept known in the theory of health protection. The provider tries to make as many benefits as possible. The aim is to stimulate the hospital to ensure adequate availability of benefits, not to provide as many benefits as possible. The introduction of a lump sum is precisely such an attempt. At the same time, we have to say that we are doing one more procedure here, which is to say that we are combining what has been settled separately in the hospital treatment contract so far. Besides, it was divided into certain profiles. We combine an outpatient care contract with this and allow the hospital board to move resources more appropriately and adapt to patients' needs. If we do so at the same time work on the proper valuation of the benefits that are still being carried out by the National Health Fund, and try to appreciate the short diagnosis more appropriately compared to the diagnosis combined with hospitalisation, this should result in increased efficiency of the system and thus de facto increase the availability of benefits in a certain financial stability perspective. Because the hospital is moving in a certain perspective of stability and knows what financial resources it can actually rely on. And one more important piece of information. This issue also sometimes appears in the media debate, so it needs to be emphasized with full force. The period of settlement does not equal the period of eligibility for the security scheme. The period of qualification shall be 4 years, while the period of settlement under the draft law may not be longer than one year. In the initial phase of the scheme, the first period will certainly be quarterly and the next period will be either quarterly or semi-annual, so that all entities operating in that system, including the payer, can properly implement themselves. Thus, through the flexible method of financing, on the one hand, the lump sum, on the other hand, for the benefits chosen And also through the lump-sum mechanism itself and the mapping of what the provider has been doing in a given period... This is also the case because we in the draft regulation of the Minister of Health, which refers to the method of calculating the lump sum, provide indicators which increase the lump sum due to the quality of the entity's work during the current accounting period. In our view, these tools will improve the system and increase access to healthcare services, while at the same time improving the stability of the functioning of healthcare providers in the field of hospital care. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u86	Thank you, Minister. And I ask you to ask Senator Sewerinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u87	Minister, I listened very carefully to what you said, and I thought I understood everything. But to be 100% Sure, but I'll ask you to complete your statement. Am I wrong to think that the valuation of individual benefits provided by hospitals would not be their business, but that would be the valuation made by an external entity? And... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Gryza: There are 2...]] That's the first question. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Gryza: Sorry.]] And the second question is this: if an external entity does this, will the valuation of individual procedures apply both to public and private institutions?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u88	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u89	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! Well, that's a certain feature of the system we're operating in. This system is based on the fact that we have, on the one hand, an authority that tariff benefits, which is the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technology and Tarification... This is the authority competent to carry out the tariff treatment of benefits. Tarification is generally based on weighing the costs of one benefit in relation to other benefits. That's generally what tarification is all about. Of course, this is based on actual data that are collected from medicinal products. And then there's the payer. It shall take into account, to the extent that it has been subject to tariff treatment of medical technology assessment agencies... But this is not yet largely taken into account. In addition, the payer shall determine the so-called. Point valuation of benefits. And this system has worked for many years. Here, Senator Grodzki mentioned homogeneous groups of patients. Yes, this is a method used in many systems, when it tries to value appropriate benefits depending on the scale of the difficulties, depending on the degree of complications, on the existing disease units, on the procedures performed. In the international sphere, this system is called the DRG system. And the National Health Fund operates in such a way that benefits are valued and, on the basis of this, the benefits are settled with each entity. And it will work exactly the same way in the current system. Because in the current payment system for the service... Well, it's done directly on the basis of this. And in the lump sum system, this method of valuation is used for reporting. So that there is an external body that determines the valuation method. And that's what's happening right now. This applies, of course, to all entities that operate on the market, but to the extent that they are related to the agreement with the payer, i.e. the National Health Fund.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u90	Thank you, Minister. And please take the floor of Senator Wojtyla.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u91	Minister, I would like to draw attention to hospital infections, i.e. the quality of health services. The number of hospital infections reported in Poland is 2.2.5 times lower than in other developed countries, resulting in the lack of identification of micro-organisms that cause infections, the spread of these micro-organisms is not analysed and a regime is not introduced to prevent the spread of these micro-organisms. Do the state, by introducing a network of hospitals, also take into account the quality of health services offered by these hospitals?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u92	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u93	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! Well, we would like to use it right away, because, as the senator rightly pointed out, hospital infections are a very important aspect, they affect quality and, of course, the safety of the services provided. Only that, unfortunately, in the information resource we have, at the level of the information we collect, it is not possible to make national registers at the moment or even some local registers, which would be an objective measurable criterion, for example. creating a security system. I'm sure this is the way to go. Besides, this may be the hardest thing to do in this system at all, so far no one has managed to do it, but this is definitely the way to go. In the case of hospital infections, you could imagine that this is a question of control, that is the question of the National Health Fund, which should also fulfil this function. But it must be borne in mind that there are also obligations related to regulation, which determines the execution of certain procedures, i.e. control by the payer who checks the performance of the contract, i.e. the question of control by the substantive authorities Only that the direct relationship between the hospital and the payer must be objective in order to make system decisions. And this, of course, must be pursued, but for now there are no proper records. The strategic idea is that, on the basis of the draft Quality System Act we are working on, of course, this element should be taken into account.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u94	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u95	Mr. Marshal! Minister! If you don't mind, I'll get back to the small thing, but as is usually the case with these kinds of projects, the devil always sleeps in detail... I would immediately like to say that what concerns the way of contracting or signing a flat-rate contract has certain values for me and I am deeply interested in the functioning of this idea. But there's one thing I'd like to settle, Minister. We have a situation where the hospital gets a lump sum, we settle it within, I don't know, six months. It turns out that in the context of the settlement, when it comes to the JGP and all the mechanisms without any additional things, I am only talking about the lump sum form, there are some shortcomings. So I understand that the hospital doesn't pay back for this year, it's just for next year it's gonna have a smaller contract. Yes? This is the first... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Gryza: Yes.]] Okay. It's clear. And if the situation is reversed, that is, the hospital is doing a certain amount of work and doing more than it has to do with the roar, then there is no judicial investigation or attempts to negotiate. The knight's maximum is... But if it's less, it's less... Yes? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Gryza: Should I answer, Mr. Marshal?]] [[Is the senator finished?]] No. I thought the Minister would say yes or no. But if you need a longer answer here, I'll ask you a second question, Minister, to end it. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Gryza: Good.]] Now the question about geriatrics. As a possible, God forbid, as at the latest, the future patient of the geriatric unit, I can say that what Minister and Minister Radziwił said, as if he was arguing with my previous knowledge of the troops and needs of geriatric troops. So you're saying, as ministers, we're doing geriatric consultants in wards, we're consulting and we're treating the elderly, we're not building a network of geriatric hospitals. I'd like to ask... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Gryza: Not exactly...]] If I'm wrong, of course. Please correct me. If the treatment in the geriatric clinics is cheaper and better for the patient, please, Minister, then clearly articulate it. And I would like the Minister to address this issue. I found an opinion... I didn't take an opinion from Pomerania, because it's known that if I took one from Pomerania, they would say: the habitat of the Civic Platform, that's definitely all negative opinions... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Gryza: No. I'm very good at working with Pomerania.]] Good. But in order to resolve all political doubts, I took the opinion of Professor Barbara Bień of Podlasie. The professor writes that he sees the need to appoint geriatric troops, which signals annually, without much effect. Probably, as the professor says, the lack of resources of the NFZ is the reason for not deciding to start a geriatric branch network in Podlasie. And in conclusion, the professor writes that good geriatric care not only improves the quality of life of seniors, but also saves on their financial treatment by the NFZ. Minister, tell me as the one who wants to hear the truth of the obvious where the cause lies. If the cause is lack of resources, say: for now we are not implementing it, there are no resources in Poland, it will be done in such a system, but ultimately it is necessary to create a network of geriatric branches, as is the case in most European countries. Are they wrong, or are we going on a new path when it comes to geriatrics?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u96	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u97	Mr. Marshal, the truth is a much broader concept than merely the attitude towards geriatrics, so, as you call it, the final truth, I am avoiding the formulation of the final truth, because I believe that this final truth has already been formulated and we should follow it. [[But in your release, Minister.]] And to answer your question, with the last part of your opinion, I agree, sir. Geriatrics as such are needed and a geriatric doctor is needed. You said we don't build a network of geriatric hospitals. We do not build, because this system is a system that refers to what is currently in the security system. And the regulation states that geriatric troops can be financed in clinical hospitals and institutes, in general in national hospitals and in third degree hospitals. It's all about that. What I have already mentioned and what is such an important message from the Minister of Health That geriatric doctors need to be educated. That's because the geriatric doctor lets you do all that the senator said, quoting the professor. But it is not appropriate for older people to give them the prospect of hospital treatment instead of treatment in their environment. Hospital treatment must be kept to a minimum, of course, reasonable. And that's why it's a proposal. At the same time, we do not eliminate anything in this statutory regulation. If there's a geriatric ward, like I said, in a third degree hospital or in a nationwide hospital, he's normally funded. In the first and second degree hospitals, these benefits can be accounted for by the department of internal diseases and we do not enter the structure, because it can be the structure of a separate branch, and it can be the same branch just in a different way organized. As far as lump sums are concerned, as the senator said, it is based on the fact that a certain degree of stability is achieved and therefore it is financed in a certain tranche mode during a given settlement period. If I do less, of course, this funding does not decrease over a given accounting period, but it significantly affects subsequent accounting periods. And there is this proposal in the draft regulation: if you do less, you will have even less in the next settlement period. And in the event of exceeding the limit or more benefits than was foreseen during a given period, this will be attributed progressively to the next lump sum, which means that in the next roar we will finance a little more than you did. Because that is the idea to simply adjust the number of benefits according to the needs of patients. But we still need to stress with full force that... because here there may be such doubt. It's gonna be a lump sum, and I'm not gonna do anything for three months, and I'm gonna get that money. This will not be the case because, apart from the issue of statutory regulation, there is an agreement between the National Health Fund or the payer at all and the provider of benefits. This agreement is a feature of this system. This is based on a contract signed by two parties. And the provider must carry out full benefits. This does not mean that in the full number, but to the full extent must perform the benefits. If he doesn't do it, the National Health Fund will break the deal with him. And if, for example, it will not perform benefits under a specific profile, which is a criterion profile, it will simply either be thrown out of the security scheme or the contract will be amended and will be otherwise secured. So these are the instruments on the one hand that stimulate, and on the other hand, they protect the system so that it works properly. Anyway, we have to add that they're entering this system. That is the idea of this solution at all. . entities which have had an agreement for at least 2 years. The idea is that there are entities in this system that operate on the market, which have been tested, which have specific potentials that have passed many controls and which should gain some stability, because from experience we know that they function in this system correctly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u98	Thank you, Minister. [[Mr. Marshal, Mr. Marshal!]] I'm listening to the senator. [[Can I ask one question about this subject so that I don't go back to it?]] But you can come back. [[No, I still have a whole set of questions, but I don't want to change the subject.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u99	Minister, I have one brief question about what you said. If more benefits have been made, as the Minister said, there is a possibility that the next year's lump sum will be greater... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Gryza: A little.]] A little. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Gryza: To a certain extent.]] A little bigger, that's right. Let's be precise. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Gryza: This is the idea.]] Can you tell the Minister what a little bigger means? I'm not asking for accurate data, but a little bigger... That's what I'm asking, because we know there were negotiations before, courts, other issues. How? This will take place and do you have a specific framework? What does "more" mean?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The full proposal is presented in the draft regulation, which can be reached, although of course it will still be subject to consultation. The regulation on the calculation of lump sums falls within the scope of the Regulation. The moment Parliament adopts this law, we will be forced to do so. That's just the reality. To be consulted by the public. At the moment, in the attached draft regulation there is a part about certain indicators: if you have made any benefits, you have some resources in the next settlement period. And that's where the answer is. Well, in general, these indicators are supposed to take into account the fact that the contract may increase, but they are not supposed to stimulate these contracts to increase.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u101	Thank you. Senator Czudowska is asking a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u102	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, what is the current debt of hospitals in Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u103	Please. If possible, please specify the outstanding and non-requireable debt.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u104	I'm the one who would ask for my friend's answer, who's in the O.R. She'll take care of it and give you the information firsthand. Actually, I could ask the Minister, but she's already gone. Can we just do that that...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u105	Minister, if your friend isn't here... [[Okay, next up.]] ...then we'll go back to that question. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Gryza: Yes, yes, of course.]] Yes, Senator? [[Yes, of course.]] We'll wait, okay. Senator Major. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u106	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In fact, I had two questions, but one of them concerned a geriatric hospital in Katowice, the only such hospital. Thank you very much for saying that the bill contains a solution that will allow this monoprofile hospital to operate within a network of hospitals. So that's all I'm saying. Minister, I would also like to ask what this reform means for the final recipient, the patient. Because the media and the opposition are scaring the hell out of us, and the patient won't know what to do with himself. And he's supposed to go to the hospital. What's it gonna look like? What does it look like from your perspective? What does this reform really mean for the patient, for the recipient of these services?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u107	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! In a regulatory and organisational sense, this law does not affect the patient. The patient doesn't have to worry about it at all, he doesn't need to know it at all. In turn, in terms of the availability of benefits, the aim of this law and the regulatory measures taken is to increase the efficiency of the system and ultimately increase patients' access to adequate benefits. Patients should feel... well, probably not right away, although in one case we're hoping they'll feel it right away. After a certain period of action of this law, patients should feel that access to benefits is faster, more adequate. In turn, in the case of night and Christmas medical care, especially in the case of the SOR, the regulation which we propose is that we de facto increase the capacity of these hospital emergency services, but not only emergency services, but also emergency rooms, through the provision of primary healthcare doctors in the time appropriate to the services of night and Christmas medical care. And those patients who do not require more serious hospital intervention should be served faster in the place they were sent to. Because, in general, there's an observation that patients are trying to go to the hospital. St. John Paul's sentence can be invoked here. II, who said that the hospital is a place of suffering, but it is also a place of hope. And it is because of this hope that patients go to the hospital regardless of whether they require hospital care or do not require hospital care, and they need simple protection at the level of the doctor of POZ. It is this feature that we see, and through this organisational change we want to improve access to benefits both for one and the other, so that those who require more serious intervention receive benefits more quickly, and those who require less intervention, who are de facto marked as yellow in the Triage system, also do not have to wait for benefits.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u109	Senator Comfort. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u110	Minister, you said that for the recipient, which is for the patient, this reform will not change anything. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Health Piotr Gryza: In the organizational sense.]] I was a little surprised because it would be because this reform is made for some country's internal ideas... And in this respect, I would like to ask you if, with such a construction of criteria, this reform will not destroy all private hospitals that do not have such a wide range of benefits. Because it would be because, in fact, some leftovers are going to private hospitals, and only state hospitals are going to benefit from it. My question is, do you want to destroy private hospitals?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u111	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u112	Well, I could stop with a short answer: no. We want to create an opportunity for all hospitals and give financial guarantees to those that are necessary and very important in terms of access to health services and on the market and in general to the local community or in terms of the state. This system is about to create these mechanisms. And I'm gonna answer again because maybe the senator didn't understand what I said... In answer to the previous question, I said that there is no change for the patient in the organisational and formal organizational sense. The aim of this change is to improve the availability of benefits by increasing the efficiency of the system at the level of the whole system and at the level of healthcare providers. And that leftover you're talking about is... This was simply the feature of those entities that did not enter the security system in 2015, on the basis of which we modeled this system. Because once again, hospitals that enter the security system, including non-public hospitals... And I said, where, to what extent these hospitals operate and enter the security system, these are first-degree hospitals and oncology hospitals, mostly, but not only, but in other areas already to a lesser extent. Hospitals that enter the security system have performed valuablely, actually not as much as they reported in 2015. 91% the benefits provided. That indicates the scale of the issue. And other hospitals, which do not enter into this system of security under the regulation proposed in the draft law and in the draft regulations, reported about 9% of benefits. Thus, an excellent part of the collateral is carried out under the collateral scheme and the other benefits are purchased through a tender contest and certainly a significant part of the benefits will be bought on the market, especially from entities which play an important role in the market in the case of access to different benefits which are not in sufficient quantity or scale carried out in entities entering the collateral scheme. There is no discrimination or division here. We in this bill show some features of the system that works now, and we write it down in a regular way. At the same time, it must be pointed out that the very serious problem of the current system, as the predecessors have also seen, is the competition for tenders, the adequacy or inadequacy of the competition. The last large-scale tender competition was in 2012 and due to some concern or a certain look at the whole system, these contracts were annexed. Assuming... As I understand it, the expectation of the market is this: keep what is. But that's the malfunction of the system. The feature of the system in which we are currently located is to buy access to benefits on the basis of an offer contest rather than on the basis of an annexation. I repeat, on the basis of an offer contest. We are de facto reopening the market and access to many benefits and scopes, and because of the importance and importance of hospital treatment In terms of access to benefits, in terms of health security, public security, as well as the functioning of local communities, we are building a security system that is designed to guarantee access to healthcare services properly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u113	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask you a question.]] Mr. Senator, I'm putting you on the list. [[But in the next round.]] Next round, in a minute. [[But this has something to do with what the Minister said. I would like to ask if such a division of the existing market...]] Mr. Senator, don't... [[...it's not concrete...]] Mr. Senator... [[...the situation you found.]] Mr. Senator, next time. Senator Grodzki has been waiting for a long time. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'd have a lot of questions, but... commenting on what was said. It's for Senator Pociej. I'm going to say that no one eliminates private entities. They'll kill themselves if they don't get enough money. The largest health care system and the best, American, is basically entirely private, based solely on federal or state support. We also have a treatment department completely privatized, namely POZ, which works quite well. So the private sector seems to be favorable. I'm only worried about these cathlabs, because despite all the odium that is fairly or unfairly burdened with cardiology, objective medical data says that Poles stopped dying of acute coronary syndromes. Some have said that their procedures are overestimated, but many have said that maybe they are well estimated and others are undervalued. That's a little commentary to Senator Pociej. I want to raise a completely different subject, Minister, namely that Christmas and night medical care are going to hospitals. It's basically the only novel that's gonna be... Because it turns out that the calculation is old-fashioned, paying old-fashioned, except it's not called a contract, it's just a lump sum, and there's a little bit more freedom. But this Christmas and night care going to hospitals is a novelty. Let me remind you that the idea of leaving this with family doctors Mr Wojtyla will probably be able to say more from me that this care in the hands of family doctors is, first, relatively cheap, second, dispersed enough that the sick have close, although supposed to be there, so to speak, handled trivial things. Transferring this back to hospitals, in the S.R. or in the clinic will make it expensive: the on-call doctor in the hospital must pay for it, and once the patient gets to this hospital, he will need additional tests, additional treatment. And if the hospital is the only one in the county ..and the counties can be big.. The patient will have to travel several dozen kilometers, perhaps with a banal condition. Asking a question because I was going for it... I examined the district of Choszczeński. There are 15 practices of family doctors, they dropped and give about 10,000 PLN for night and Christmas care, so that at several points, at 4 or 5 points in this district this night and Christmas care is at family doctors, and is reasonably available. And there's one hospital in the Chochchen County. And it turns out that he's gonna get $50,000 for night and Christmas care, which is three times less than they're gonna spend on those family doctors. Director Otherwise known to the Minister, because this is a highly deserved director, Director Kmetyk says he can't handle this situation, because the on-calls themselves will cost her, and yet equipment, diagnostics, procedures, etc. So I think this move is... Financially, it will bring savings, but it will make life more difficult for patients. I would like to hear the Minister's comment on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u115	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u116	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! It must be remembered that night and Christmas medical care in hospitals does not exhaust all night medical care, so that the voivodeship will announce competitions for night medical care where the distance to the hospital is too far away. 'Cause it's all about the so-called. the contracting areas and the populations covered by those areas. And this will definitely be corrected by the National Health Fund. Another thing is that experience shows that at the moment the hospital bears these costs, because patients in the S.O.R. and in the E.R. are actually going to the emergency room. And this is now a commitment to the nature of the system's work. Although this is a bit of a factor in the calculation of the SOR lump sum, we want to increase this or rather this project assumes an increase by financing a separate service for some patients. So I don't see any danger here. There is also a specific solution to this issue, with a detailed solution to the issue of night medical care. We're working on it all the time. Because the law only introduces a rule, and the details of the solution are to be specified in the draft regulation of the Minister of Health, and also in the appropriate order of the President of the NFZ, where the issue of setting rates related to the financing of this form of care will also be taken into account. So this case is in detail, and it's not completely closed in analytical terms on our part. But in answer to the system issue, I can say what I said at the outset: the health fund, depending on the situation of access to health care services, i.e. in this dimension, the night medical assistance will announce competitions if access is not properly secured. It should also be said that about half of the hospitals entering the security system are already providing night medical care. So it's not like it's completely new. I would say that on a system scale this solution normally functions and, moreover, we complete it. And as a dictator, it must be said that these are hospitals which, by law, do not provide night medical services, all the more they want to have this night medical contract. I met with cases of such hospitals both in the Zachodniopomorskie voivodship and in the Pomeranian voivodship. Because the fact is that if there is no such possibility by law, it immediately expects it and shows the validity of such a service.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u117	Thank you. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u118	Mr. Marshal! Minister! If you don't mind... Because the Minister said something very important to patients, namely that this system will increase efficiency. Could you tell the Minister a few words in the context of the development of this subject? What can patients count on in order to improve service efficiency? That's one thing. And secondly, I'm returning to increasing the lump sum. After all, you have certainly been doing the calculations resulting from this regulation; the Minister has told us nicely what parameters... I repeat the question. Could the Minister say something like that? Divergences may be within large limits What percentage are we talking about when it comes to overdoing? Will it be up to 30%, up to 20%, up to 10% , up to 40% ? It's about numbers. I'm sure that's what you've been doing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u119	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u120	I'm answering the last question. Of course we did. We have counted this and this is still an analysis, because we must finally prepare or issue regulations for external consultations in a moment. This is a progressive area, i.e. depending on the number obtained, the number of benefits that can be accounted for in the next settlement period is decreasing. Initially, it's a value of 20%. [[What?]] 20%. [[And that's the first question, Minister, to increase efficiency? You said that...]] Well, increase... [[What is to be done, and what will be revealed for the patient in terms of efficiency?]] Increased efficiency has both a systemic, system-wide dimension and an entity-specific dimension. I will remind you of the report of the Supreme Chamber of Control on the activities of the National Health Fund for 2015, where two very important thesis came up, which we know from the observation. The first point is that funding for health care services is increasing and access to healthcare services is not increasing. The second point is that to a large extent healthcare providers have untapped potential and could increase the provision of healthcare services by There's even a certain number, 18%. Without increasing the cost of both work-related and non-service-related costs. So these are very important thesis. We can say that these are theories that show that the system on a macro scale has certain characteristics of inefficiency. Of course, it's not that simple. It is not so simple at all, because the financing of the health system is a separate class of issues, there is no simple solution here and there is no ideal solution. This is seen in systems in the world, because everyone has a different solution. Everyone has their own solutions, because if there was one perfect solution, everyone would apply it, but there is no solution. In fact, all these systems are changing all the time, because if there is an attempt to make a certain correction related to one phenomenon, it is a different phenomenon. You could say that on the scale of system analysis it's a sineoid. So this is a systemic issue, how to make more effective use of all the resources that go into health care, including hospital medicine. On the other hand, efficiency at the level of the medicinal user is linked to these elements, which I said we combine hospital treatment with outpatient treatment. We want benefits to be performed here more appropriately so that, for example, we do not need to increase the number of benefits, only more adequate benefits were made, because that is the effectiveness of the system. In addition, the effectiveness of the system is also that we include outpatient care into the security system, we include rehabilitation. And this is a resource that the hospital and the patient have, which is an important feature of the current system. It's also my experience. When I get out of the hospital... When a patient leaves the hospital, he's lost. And not just from the hospital, not even from a specialist's doctor. He thinks, "What am I supposed to do next?" What am I supposed to do? Who should I go to, where should I get advice? This is an objective assessment. The construction of this system is about to encourage the healthcare provider to take care of this patient, because it has a wide range of services that can, moreover, account for together so that the patient can properly serve the patient from start to finish. That's an incentive. The next step is to build certain healing paths. An example here is the provision of coordinated care when we are talking, firstly, about medical intervention, and secondly, about rehabilitation related to medical intervention, so that it is combined at a certain time and better valued, and such a mechanism we also introduce into the security system. The provision of coordinated care is to be settled separately and is to be the subject of this Regulation by the Minister of Health, in which this benefit is calculated as being financed separately. These are mechanisms that aim to increase efficiency and thus increase adequate access to benefits for patients. We also need to know that we are leaving the current system. It is not that we are building in isolation from reality, but we are coming out of the current system, we see how this system works, and we want to correct it accordingly, so that in this respect, The system just worked a little differently.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u121	Thank you, Minister. Senator Comfort. You're welcome. [[Mr. Marshal, I've already received an answer from a friend at the club...]] Good. [[...so thank you very much.]] Thank you. [[In the meantime.]] In the meantime. It's Senator Czarnobaj... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Gryza: Mr. Marshal, there was a question about intervention cardiology...]] Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Gryza: Maybe I'd respond to that, because this is the whole subject...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u122	Well, ladies and gentlemen, there's 75% in the security system. the value of the benefits granted in the field of intervention cardiology. It's in the security system. The hospitals entering the security system provided so many benefits in 2015. Intervention cardiology can in fact be at any level of the security system, in hospital first, second, third degree, and also in national hospitals, so this system guarantees access to health care services to a large extent, and where it does not guarantee, which is an example of... We can find branches like this. in Opole, where a significant part of the intervention cardiology benefits will be purchased by means of an offer contest, so there is just one entity in the province that performs intervention cardiology and other benefits In order to secure benefits there should be 4 places for the performance of benefits, they will be purchased by means of an offer contest, in accordance with the guidelines of the Polish Society of Cardiology, taking into account the population that should be taken into account in relation to the entity performing the intervention cardiology benefits.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u123	Thank you. Senator Blackbay. [[He left for a while.]] Oh, he left, yeah. [[The voice from the hall: Ah, about this debt...]] Yeah, yeah, we'll be right back to that, 'cause it's the Deputy Minister who's gonna answer, as I understand... But that's in a minute. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Gryza: Yes, if I may, then...]] Okay, okay, I'm gonna let... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Gryza: The Minister is handling this, it's...]] But I have a question for you, Minister. Did you take over this night counseling... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Gryza: Night Medical...]] ...night medical attention, yes, through hospitals will increase the queues in hospitals, or will it reduce them? 'Cause I've got this kind of observation that the lines in the emergency rooms are huge right now. Sometimes there are people there, for example. They have a cold, but there are also people who broke their finger. I intervened in a situation where a man who came with a broken finger waited five hours. I think the senators, all the senators, have a lot of intervention on the functioning of health care. I'm just surprised there's no one in these hospitals in these emergency rooms. Let's assume the nurses who would go out to the waiting ones and make selections. I've been in a few situations like this, well, not me personally... But it wasn't like somebody came and did the selection. I understand that it also depends on the functioning of the hospital and the organisation of hospital work, but that's what I wanted to draw attention to. And my question is whether, in this state, what it is, these lines in the E.R. will increase or decrease. [[They're gonna decrease...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u124	That was the answer, wasn't it? Well, the senator's already answered. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[That's it, Mr. Marshal.]] About... [[Senator, if you're a minister, I'll ask you.]] Mr. Marshal brought up an important matter of methodology for the hospital rescue unit. Triage is a fundamental issue. Patients need to be separated into red, green and yellow, requiring specific intervention at a certain time. And that's one of the basic things. Perhaps the emergency room where you were wasn't operating in that mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u125	No, no, the red line works. It's clear. Accidents, etc. Of course, it works. But patients... There are different patients sitting there, in different situations. And nobody tries to go out to them and just make a selection: one to the right, the other to the left. Those who have any damage, broken finger... He doesn't, of course, let go of the red line of someone who's coming...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u126	Mr. Marshal, precisely because we see this situation, we want to give de facto additional money for this queue to be reduced and to make the right selection by indicating those patients who are de facto patients of the POS and should be served in less urgency or actually less commitment, because this can be done by a normal doctor. Let me remind you that in the basket, the requirement for night and Christmas medical attention is a doctor who has the right to pursue a profession. And in the case of doctors working in the E.R. or in the S.R., these requirements are higher. But I'm taking the senator's attention, maybe we should, for example. In the contract between the payer and the hospital, make a requirement somehow related to the organisation or the selection. We'll think about it. Maybe it's an important thing to do... not at the regulatory level, because it's not... [[I understand. I understand.]] ...but at such a level of detailed regulation. Maybe we'll just... We'll think about it. Maybe that's the move you have to make.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u127	Thank you, Minister. Senator Czarnobaj still, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u128	Mr. Marshal, Minister, I have three such remarks, observations. First of all, I would like to say that what you have been discussing about the so-called. First impression, first contact, that's very important. This is what you try to fight at different levels of local government. And I must say that so far it has been difficult to convince those who have paid, the National Health Fund, that this is an important project, also from the point of view of assessing the quality of the service provided. I am pleased that the Minister declares that this is an important element to be considered. Minister, just one more remark. Because, as I understand it, efficiency increases when we achieve, for the same money, a larger range of services that we perform. The Minister rightly says that the element of complexity is also an important element of the assessment of the quality of health protection in Poland, because the outgoing patient, who can hit through all these elements of quality improvement, the evaluation of the functioning of the system... He's very important. But it doesn't really have much to do with increased efficiency. But I'm leaving that thread behind. And now my two questions. Minister, or a hospital that today does not have the possibility of creating night care or the possibility of creating a clinic at the hospital... I understand there's no problem for a hospital like this to go online if it meets all the other conditions, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u129	Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u130	Yes. Okay. And one more question. In the context of additional competitions, within these 9% which will be done on the basis of which service, what and for how much, can also run a hospital online?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u131	No. [[I thought everything was gonna be like this.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u132	Thank you. Well, here are simple, simple questions and short answers. [[I have one more question.]] Oh, Senator Grodzki. I'll be back at the end to your question, Senator Chudowska, so that the Minister doesn't have to come and go. You're welcome, Senator Grodzki. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Gryza: There is always a risk of going down, I would like to draw attention to this, especially in this profession.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u133	We're already feeling sorry for the Minister because you're weakening every minute. But I hope... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Gryza: No, I am not weakening, I am gaining power.]] But I have a very detailed question that even for senators who are not connected with our business can be understood. The orthopedics you asked about here, Senator Rulewski, you said it was no problem, and that 80% These procedures will be performed in general surgery. It's just that it's fighting, and it's in contradiction, for example. with specialization regulations. It may turn out that this orthopedics is otherwise good She'll lose her ability to specialize in orthopedics because she'll become a surgeon. And the CMKP rules, the ministerial rules, make very specific requirements for those who can be accredited to specialize. And it's gonna take a change, too, if that's what it's gonna look like. I would like a brief comment on this, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u134	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u135	Yes, Mr. Marshal. Well, here I've actually gained power and I can answer with full power that orthopedics, or actually orthopedic profiles, are attached to hospitals in the first degree. So if the first-degree hospital enters the security system, it's fully attached. The Senator rapporteur spoke of a mechanism concerning a number of other services, but in the case of orthopedics it is fully attached as a profile. In the draft regulation, using statutory delegations... the regulation kind of takes into account the reality of this system. We indicate there some profiles that should be attached to the different levels of security. So, for example. to the first level we attach orthopedics and traumatology, in this draft regulation we also attach cardiology to the first degree, if it also has an intervention dimension, we attach neurology if it also has an impact dimension, or we attach, on the basis of this implementing act, e.g. infectious diseases to all levels, e.g. Neurosurgery to the second degree. So to answer your question directly, I can say: there is no such problem, orthopedics is attached to hospitals in the first degree, and in criteria profiles, i.e. in the case of hospitals in the second degree, orthopedics is.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u136	Senator Czarnobaj. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u137	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, since you've gained strength, that's one more short question. And if I could, maybe I'd like a longer answer. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Gryza: Longer than the last one?]] You said to the minister that I didn't mean this pussy, that hospitals on the net couldn't run... Could you tell me why?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u138	Well, the simple answer is this: because this is the bill. It's just an assumption, that's why... And more broadly, I can answer as follows. This law deals with an important axiological issue related to the scope of State intervention. There is an area of particular concern, which is hospital treatment, which due to capital intensity issues, due to the long planning period, due to the importance of creating a local community, the importance of the hospital in the local community, and finally because of the issue of access to benefits, the security of access to health care services, and thus also due to the wide-ranging security of the state... This area, on the basis of this statutory regulation, is subject to specific regulation. But at the same time, this law offers an opportunity for the functioning of the market because there is no market for the whole, but there is a chance for the functioning of the market. And this regulation says that if you have something in your contract and you're already doing it, you just don't go out more, because the system is also supposed to be flexible, it's supposed to give you the ability to function also to entities that don't work in the security system. [[Okay, Minister, are these... but this is the market at 9%, right? As far as I'm concerned...]] Mr. Marshal, I'm gonna answer that one more time, because I can see that this requires a certain definition. Hospitals that enter the security system with all their profiles, on the basis of the draft law and draft implementing regulations, performed health benefits in 2015, which accounted for 91% all benefits under contract with the National Health Fund. And it's not like it's supposed to be 9%, 10%. or 15% . It was simply hospitals that met the criteria that played such a role on the market in 2015, across the country. And so they will also play it in the future. Well, this situation is gonna change, of course, because it's gonna change. there may be new benefits that we will only buy by way of an offer contest. So that's the way it is with this percentage. Maybe I'll add it, because maybe you can't see it right away in the act: we in the act attach to the security system e.g. outpatient care, but we disable e.g. dialysis. Dialysis is not subject to the security system, they are subject to the same regulation which is currently, or market, we buy them in the competition of offers. It's just to complete the image. [[Thank you...]] So, a friend, huh? [[But did I get that right? Free market 9%, right? Good. I understand what's going on.]] Mr. Marshal, the free market... This is how all entities operate in POZ. In the field of dentistry The competitions of offers, all the entities that want, of course, which will win the competition. For long-term care All players to the extent that they win the competition. As regards preventive programmes, the same principle. In the field of health care It's the same rule. There is a slight correction in the case of outpatient specialized care, where the same information... Subjects who enter the security system carried out approximately 30% of the outpatient care services performed in hospital clinics in 2015 and about 30% of the rehabilitation benefits, and in hospital care they performed 91% the value of benefits. This reflects the nature of the system's operation in 2015, on the basis of which the model and the proposal for a system change in the form of this law were built.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u139	Thank you. Any more questions? They're here. Wait a minute, Minister. You're welcome, Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u140	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Two questions, if I may. Number one: is there a list of hospital units that will enter the network and those that will be offline? And second question. This quite revolutionary law applies to 1 000 100 hospitals, to several hundreds of thousands of health workers, but also to several million patients. This law also applies to PLN 30 billion. Minister, aren't you afraid that a law so quickly and revolutionaryly introduced can actually turn it all upside down? Don't you have such concerns?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u141	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u142	Well, just now, Senator Grodzki said something completely different, that this is a minor change. So that there are completely different grades. Those numbers you mentioned are true, except I've already presented them to the marshal. 91% the value of the benefits provided shall enter the security scheme. Thus, if we were to implement the current system and conduct competitions for hospital services, I fear that there would indeed be problems, because many hospitals that should be operating on the market might not be in this system, or, worse still, they could be part of it. I mean, in some range. To win a competition in some range To lose the competition, so they're actually going to fall. That is why this system needs to be corrected in such a way. Every change, of course, involves some organizational effort, perhaps some perturbation. But this change in this perspective must be made. And the scale of benefits that are carried out under the security scheme, and the entities that enter the security scheme, ensures that the change should run through as smoothly and gently as possible. The letters you are talking about will be published competently if the law enters into force on 27 June this year and the system will be operational from 1 October this year.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u143	Thank you, Minister. Senator Komarnicki still has a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u144	Minister, thank you very much for your answer, but I maintain that... it comforts me that I see a certain concern on your face, because this is a huge change that we will all be following. I hope that we will come back to this sometime, Minister. I have one last question... [[The Minister's face is upset because his legs hurt.]] [[Exactly.]] Possibly. [[The second hour of standing...]] [[If you were standing there, then...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Minister, one last question for me. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Health Piotr Gryza: Mr. Marshal, I like to stand on the floor in the Senate.]] One last question, Minister. It's about rehab hospitals. I perfectly understand your intentions to leave patients, especially in the case of post-hospital rehabilitation, in the same hospital. How the Minister will deal with rehabilitation related to the so-called. ZUS-owska's prevention? As patients who remain on L4, i.e. are protected from work, they can go to such branches in the framework of the prevention of the ZUS... Hospitals, which led the prevention of ZUS-owska, function perfectly in the network of present hospitals. Young people who want to get back to work as soon as possible use these hospitals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u145	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u146	The source of funding for these benefits is ZUS and KRUS, because KRUS activities also have a rehabilitation dimension, which, moreover, is largely realized by the cash register itself. This is a different range, another system... We're not in. Besides, this is also a market area, because the ZUS buys these benefits according to certain rules. The question, as I understand it, is a little wider, because it concerns the system that we are talking about here. In this bill we de facto defined the concept of hospital, criteria... Hospitals that meet certain criteria shall enter the security system. We've joined rehab to increase the level of comprehensive health care. In addition, there are still rehabilitation hospitals, but these rehabilitation hospitals operate in a different way. This is not the scope of hospital treatment, but this is the scope of rehabilitation treatment. This is also another heading of the National Health Fund's financial plan. These hospitals will be subject to competition in the same way as so far in the field of rehabilitation and in the position of the financial plan of the National Health Fund or the appropriate payer: medical rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u147	Thank you. There are no further questions for you, Minister. Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Gryza: Can I ask a colleague from the Ministry of...]] Yeah, yeah. There you go. Senator Czudowska's question was a question about hospital debt. I've got it all figured out... [[Necessary...]] Debts due and not required. Minister Głowala.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u148	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the preliminary figures for 2016 are concerned, we are in the process of approving the financial statements, the total commitments at the end of 2016 amounted to PLN 11.2 billion, including commitments due at the level of PLN 1.8 billion. It should be noted that this amount includes the obligations of the Institutes subordinate to the Minister of Health, which are not in the public finance sector. The obligations of the institutes amounted to PLN 1.2 billion, while the liabilities due amounted to PLN 100.8 million... [[Institutes, right?]] Yes, institutes supervised by the Minister of Health. Only that institutes are not in the public finance sector, they are not units in the public finance sector. We take them into account in general, but, as I say, they are not individuals in the public finance sector. [[So together with the institutes of 11.2 billion...]] Yeah, with the institutes. Yeah, yeah. [[This is total debt. And due at 1.8...]] Yeah, 1.8 billion. [[Plus institutes, separately...]] No, it's in there. [[In this?]] Yes. [[All right.]] First of all, they were obligations for the purchase of medicines, medical materials, the purchase of equipment, equipment and the purchase of foreign services.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u149	Thank you, Minister... Oh, no, thank you not yet, Minister, because Senator Czarnobaj is here. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u150	Mr. Marshal! Minister! If the Minister remembers, I'm asking for information, if not, by the way. Do you remember the scale of the charges for the same facilities?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u151	No, I'm afraid not. [[Can I have it in writing?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u152	So what? How about in writing? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Katarzyna Głowala: Yes, you can.]] Thank you very much. Senator Czarnobaj. There are no further questions for the Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u153	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Draft Network Law I will say this, in short, so that the sentences are shorter, is a project that concerns all Poles, because what concerns health protection concerns all of us, whether we are in a group of people who benefit from the health care system, or in a group of managers, or who are building a strategy in this matter in Poland, just like the Minister. Therefore, in all kinds of studies relating to the implementation of such laws, a number of things are required, things that are recorded in academic assumptions concerning the construction of such activities. Knowledge, time, experience is required, but first of all it is important that such projects are also built on the basis of consultations with the scientific environments or the environments concerned in particular. Before I go to specific comments on this law, a few words about history. 10 years ago, Pomerania, from which I came, then I was Deputy Marshal of the voivodship for health, and I took this honorary role, among others. After Marshal Borusewicz, we were in those difficult years in 2000 and the following years... Let me put it this way: during the rule of law and justice, when the minister was dead. Professor Religa, we're in the so-called. Pilotage. Why am I talking about this? Because Senator Grodzki has submitted a project on our behalf. Why is piloting in this field important? We can make mistakes anywhere, we can do something that needs correction, but there's time for that. In protecting the health of errors you should do as little as possible, so piloting, the implementation of the analysed concepts is very important. That's why we decided to take part in the so-called Pomerania. piloting the bill of Professor Religion. And what do I want to say? I would like to say that the bill we are working on today, as the Minister said at the committee meeting, is a very important element not so official. I want to say what has already fallen out of this tribune today, also during the debate: it is not a revolutionary law or a law amending many matters concerning the functioning of health protection in Poland, it is a retouch related to the financing of health protection. I'll talk about it in a minute. Why is piloting important? Then, 10 years ago, when we conducted this pilotage, the project of Professor Religion was implemented, you can say, within 2 years, i.e. there was an annual preparation period, a six-month pilotage period and only in January 2008 the project was to enter into force. That plan concerning the network of your Professor Religion assumed that each voivodeship would have a strategy for implementing a network of hospitals in which a whole range of instruments, such as the characteristics of the voivodship, the characteristics of hospitals, would be used. So first we're talking about what the base is, we're talking about what the map of needs is in a given voivodship. Then a network plan and specific things related to the implementation of the Network Law are drawn up. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of this project, we have developed a great deal of our work. The team that worked on this was composed of representatives of the NFZ, local government, voivodship, medical academy operating in the Pomeranian Voivodeship, Quality Monitoring Centre in Health Protection. So there was a comprehensive approach and one could answer the questions: what is it, what is it, what is it, what is the staff, what are the needs? We put our expectations on it, we put financial elements on it, and we put the most important thing on it. Quality elements. Here the Minister said that these quality elements will be included in the regulation. And that's the fundamental difference in Professor Religion's web project and what you're proposing here. This project, ladies and gentlemen, which was in 2007... I will not quote the statements of Minister Radziwiłł, what he said about the network project and how he referred to the ideas of networking, the ideas of lump sums, a certain administrative management of health care. The Minister said at the committee meeting: I have grown up, and therefore I propose the same network project. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say two words about the good... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Could I please, Mr. Marshal... 'Cause my bureau is really bothering me. [[Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, ……]] I would very much like to say some good things about this project, because it is not that the project completely, 100% He's bad. Ladies and gentlemen, I personally believe that what concerns a certain stability of funding through lump sums is a worthwhile solution. If we are talking about the fact that the elements related to the inclusion of complexity, the absence from the system of the most lucrative and most cost-effective procedures to quasi- or pseudo-hospitals, the references of hospitals, hospital clinics... These are the elements worthy of attention that should be supported throughout the solution, but with the existing legal interpretation these elements could also be achieved, but there was no determination among previous ministries and payers to achieve these elements. If we're talking That's what I asked the Minister. The fact that today the hospital will have a contract with no night care of the sick, no hospital clinics, no other elements that I have been talking about here is that practically outside the flat-rate and flat-rate accounting of a given hospital, as far as finances are concerned, there will be little change. Therefore, you should ask yourself what the patient will benefit from. That is the fundamental question I have asked the Minister. The Minister said what he said. Anyway, I can say yes. The patient on this system will benefit little, because it will not change much for him. Therefore, if we are talking about this, we want to improve possible ways of financing the entire project. But let's not say the patient benefits from it! You won't even notice this change, and if you notice it, The change for the worse, because it will not have access to certain elements of the functioning of medicinal entities that are on the market today; because some entities will simply fall out of it. Now the question is: will the staff benefit from this? I'll say it gently: well, pretty much nothing. The Minister said that we want to achieve better efficiency within the same money. So, you could say, we're going to be working more with the same results. Of course, there are certain elements of benefits in terms of managers here. I've already replaced them. They are also, as the Minister said in his speech, some positive elements of this solution from the point of view of the ministry, but generally from the point of view of patients or people working in the whole health system will change almost little, and it can be said that some elements will deteriorate. Let me quote... That's why I've been asking the Minister so much if there was a consultation system. Why are we talking about this? This is such an important area... consultation, conversations with the environments concerned, the scientific community, authorities and the various types of actors that carry out this activity are important. But it would also be important what we are asking Professor Grodzki for, that is, to decide on a certain period of audit which will show the good and bad sides of this solution. We don't want to overthrow this project. We want this project in the wrong parts to which there are doubts... to be resolved. And if he doesn't have any dark sides and there are no threats, he will be implemented very quickly during such piloting. That is why I would also like to see the Minister... I think the Minister knows these opinions, but it is worth mentioning a few parts of the opinion on this project. Some of these opinions come from an auditor at the Sejm Analysis Office. I'd like to quote them. Because if we say that this system introduces the supply side of hospital treatment and ex post response, it is simply said that... and if the Minister says in his statement that we will strive to improve efficiency... They're free jokes! After all, we do not have any instruments for improving efficiency under the contract. Unless there are some we don't know about. It is very disturbing, Minister, namely in the justification of the bill, the Minister writes: "Maps of health needs and so-called. the network of hospitals are tools that operate at other levels of the system and are intended to pursue other objectives. Minister, it's not enough in the bill to call something a system to make it a system. And it is often done by people who have a little little idea about the whole building of a management system. I read this opinion: if someone from all over the wall or the management pyramid takes out one brick and inserts a new one, and says they changed the management system... But this is not a change of management system! This is an improvement of the existing system. And if we approach it like that, plus we take into account the possible pilotage, plus the attention that comes from other backgrounds... It is worth thinking about not making mistakes. Because mistakes in management, financial errors, errors that concern the building of the whole system, are very difficult to turn away. I'm off, Mr. Marshal. I'm just finishing up, and I'm also going to say that the project It's what the opinion-makers say. It's too short an adjustment period. If we are talking about the fact that this is a change concerning the whole system of operation and at the same time And that's an important thing. It is said that the project has no impact on the labour market... Well, it's at least a very optimistic term, yes, at least. Finally, I would like to say this: what is very important is what is said in this opinion, in which it is said that investment in health care needs to be quickly corrected. Because if you invest today on the basis of various types of contracts or future competitions, and this is related to building material parts of buildings, equipment, and such an entity has no prospects for entering the network or operating on the market, it is worth talking about this much sooner than first investing and then saying: sorry, you will not be online. So, in conclusion, Mr Marshal, I would like to say this: the changes regarding the way I finance many elements convince me or have at least a positive reference to them, but as far as the whole of the project is concerned, the fact that it will improve efficiency, improve accessibility... And I would like to say this: the national network of hospitals will not save the changes that the Minister has spoken about today and which are needed in the Polish health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u154	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u155	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Among the most vulnerable systems that are under pressure from the demographic change process, health protection is mentioned as one of the leading ones, and everywhere in the world. I understand the draft law as just a fragment of what needs to change in order to respond to this challenge. All insurance systems in health care are swinging, tax participation in financing is growing everywhere. There is an increasing gap between what can be collected from the non-growing number of employees and what needs to be spent on the treatment of the rapidly increasing number of seniors who are already a large group of people being treated, including in hospitals. I would like to point out at the outset that this law cannot be considered to any extent or only to a small extent as a response to this challenge. We are still waiting for your proposal to meet this challenge, which is a sharp increase in the demand for health services. The second point I would like to raise is actually to look at this change through the eyes of the patient. I was this patient recently at my hospital who had a hospital emergency unit. I just happened to need care this weekend. Minister, senator. Like any other patient, he waited 4 hours for a party and probably only because such places where weekend care was also performed... Now that I'm trying to imagine that all the procedures, as well as you raised the marshal, would be done in this one place, and it's likely that this will be the only hospital that can contract it, I'm afraid to think about what's going to happen there. There's a problem in these hospitals at all. Extra doctors, etc. should be employed several times. You try to patch up the shortcomings with doctors on the wards, because there are diseases, because there are other issues; there is always some justification. That's why there's queues. Someone was brought in by ambulance and everybody's waiting, everybody's standing by. I am afraid that the solutions that are being proposed here may still trigger the situation, and As the senators rightly pointed out The first contact with the hospital is often in a violent, sudden situation. It is through this event that we very often evaluate the whole system. This could be a very difficult confrontation. I asked about private hospitals, and I didn't exactly get the answer. Private hospitals are not always presented in the right light here. There are those who actually get very highly paid procedures, but not by chance, just because they offer very good specialist care in this narrow range, which others do not. They don't actually have a lot of branches, they don't take all the cases, but to this narrow extent This is what the NFZ said, which signed contracts with them. They're the best. Well, I'm afraid we're gonna lose a piece of work involving private finances in the general health insurance system. This component will disappear. If these high-specialized procedures are not contracted, they will only be available for private money. Finally, I would like to address the issue of geriatrics. Of course, everyone knows, because there is a lot of confirmed research, that geriatric approach, specialist treatment of older people reduces the risk of death, increases the likelihood of longer stay in homes, reduces the risk of rehospitalization, increases the chances of improving the functional condition, efficiency of these people. I'm not gonna empathize here with percentages, but it's calculated. And there are, of course, serious benefits from this approach. However, according to all data, Poland is at the end when it comes to the possibility of securing such an approach, even because we have so few geriatric doctors, not only doctors but active doctors working geriatric doctors. We have very few geriatric beds, several times less than in other European countries. Shall we accept the Minister's translation that we have discovered the patent that we will not do without it, that we will not increase the number of these beds, that we will insert them into the internship? And this is supposed to encourage you to specialize on the internet? Really serious people, doctors, professors shouldn't really say things like that, because they certainly won't. What's the approach? Well, here you go, we can ask you how many residences are in geriatrics right now. It's supposed to be better in the fall, but now it's 30. So what's there to talk about? How can we believe in the good intentions of developing this specialization? Don't put it that way. It's not about big money at all. Minister, 24,000 hospitalizations in geriatric wards with a million internists are just 0.02%. Similarly in financial terms, of course, so it's not big money. In turn, according to the NIK savings, when a comprehensive geriatric evaluation is applied, which was also mentioned by the Minister, are of course very large, but let us be consistent. The same assessment of NIK says that they are significantly higher when this assessment is made on geriatric wards. So there's something to think about. I think it's probably looking for apparent savings in a place that should be developed, because it will give benefits, not losses. That is why I do not accept what the Minister said here. I believe that we should ensure that geriatric troops are able to function alone, without compromising the financial basis. And that's why I'm making an appropriate correction to remove this flaw, in my opinion, a significant drawback. The flaw that has, I would say, systemic significance, because looking into the future is thinking seriously about the need for geriatric treatment so that it doesn't cost so much. It is absolutely not contrary to what the Minister said, that where necessary, it should be possible to consult geriatrics. It's not like there's gonna be one instead of the other. It should be, like in all countries, both. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u156	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Majer, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u157	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Health policy, shaping the health system is one of the most important tasks of the state. It is an important task, because the task that is universal, for every citizen of a given country. Let me ask you the first basic question: is there a health system that we could call an ideal system that is so carefully tailored to the needs of the inhabitants and that is precisely fulfilling its role as a 100% protection system the needs of each of the residents? I will say, Dear Sir, yes: even in the richest countries no one has yet built a health care system that would be perfect. Always building a health system, we ask how much the market should be in the system, competitiveness, and how many countries, the role of individual players and players in the market. When we ask about the market and competitiveness, when we ask about the role of the state, we really ask whether we are in favour of liberal or solidarity solutions, whether we will put on the market and its magical hand, which will create and even everything out, whether we will approach the problem that our people are facing together. The construction of the hospital network, in my opinion, puts us on the side of the solidarity state, is an emancipation of what Professor Religa once intended to remember, talking about a construction that will safeguard or maximize the protection of residents in the field of health protection. Of course, years have passed since Professor Religa talked about it when he first created this system, but the idea of a network of hospitals seems to be a concept and a hit and a socially justified one. I had, Dear State, comfort, the opportunity to observe the health situation from different perspectives, and from the perspective of local politics, and from the perspective of the organizer of local offices or the controller from the position of the office of the voivodship. Unfortunately, in recent years we have dealt with many pathologies that were born in the system, and the government's reaction was usually late because the market was ahead of reality. Yes, Dear State, it has happened in the case of large hospitals, which have no better assessed procedures, which have gone to non-public units. And when the patient went from public to public, it turned out that there was nothing to treat him because the market was doing its job. The non-public health system organizers, of course, looked at the price of procedures, took these procedures away, weakened the large individuals from which they were taken, and then there was a problem with the patient, let's say, complicated... there was a problem with a patient who was not able to provide adequate protection. A network of hospitals, as we read This is how it's built. This element will be eliminated. Voivodeship, the National Health Fund or, generally speaking, the payer ceases to be a notary, which in fact must be made by every entity that is being created in the area, cut a piece of money and give it to him, because he will carry out the service, and so far it has been. I, Dear Ladies and gentlemen, remember the time when the entities and directors of the NFZ were established, and before that, the sickness funds said: individuals are formed, they want to participate in the market, we must provide them with the opportunity to provide... There has been a process of shredding healthcare providers. This design is very possible that it is not perfect, it is very possible that we will perfect it, but it is a step in the right direction. We are dealing with the strengthening of public bodies that provide health services in the most comprehensive way. You told the Minister that there would be an increase in access to the system as far as the patient is concerned. So the patient who really is the one we're supposed to be dealing with is going to get a better service, a more comprehensive one, and it's going to be more secure. Against this comes the construction of night and Christmas aid, which can be implemented in hospitals. I need to address the geriatric issues in a few words, because I feel like there's a misunderstanding here. Just as in the beginning there was a ghost of danger, a spectrum of liquidation of the only geriatric hospital in Poland in Katowice, but it was eliminated as a result of the proper construction of the bill, so now we are discussing whether the law will not actually eliminate geriatrics. I share the opinion that Minister Gryza has offered us here, judging that from these documents it does not appear that geriatrics will be destroyed. All the more so, dear people, that geriatrics will have to develop. Ladies and gentlemen, we will have an average of 200 000 senior citizens arriving on a yearly basis. So that the geriatric will be, next to the internist, the primary physician providing services. But in the case of seniors, we have a much more serious problem. Because they have access to internships as such, to geriatrics smaller, because geriatrics were not educated, in fact we have very few geriatrics, although specialization procedures are followed However, we will soon have a problem with the absence of long-term care facilities. And here we should also encourage What am I doing here? Our government will prepare investment programmes that will allow you to create a bed base for hospices and health care facilities. Because in the coming years we will grow the number of people in this group, people of senior age, so-called. Old. This term may not look good, but it's sociological, which means it's about people after they're eighty-five years old. They will by nature require long-term care beds. And that's actually the health job that's ahead of us. The task of building long-term care facilities. Of course, the law talks about the basic hospital scope, about what's going on. And in my opinion, the solutions he's proposing... Of course, after years it is something other than what the sleep was talking about. Professor Religa. Nevertheless, it is a well-designed law, it is a law that meets the needs of the patient, a law that begins the long-awaited period of changes in the health system. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I am in favour of the patient, all the time in favour of making his health system look better, and I am in favour of the hospital network as proposed by the Minister. And I'm in favour of a solidarity state that is emanating from a network of hospitals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u158	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Grodzki will take the next floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u159	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Minister! Salus aegroti suprema lex, which is the patient's welfare by the highest law. Some say that this saying is exquisite, but I hope, and even that it is not so in this room. I will repeat what I have already said: the dispute we are having is focused on the person of the patient, which is the most important person in the health system. And as long as it is, it's okay. But coming from the genesis... Today's discussion, the dialogue with Minister Gryza, has given me a great deal, but coming from the origins of this law, I have to say that I have the impression that the Ministry has been a little hurt by the criticism of President Kaczyński, who, saying that the column is moving forward, is an avant-garde, but there are also rolling stock, he has included among others. health resort. So they started to get pretty intense not to say: feverish work on speeding up these laws. This law, in its essence, also goes to sleep. Professor of Religion, with whom I had the opportunity to speak personally about such a subject Only Professor Religa said that about 200 hospitals would disappear. And that was a brave thesis. He knew the resort was gonna get hit. Unfortunately, he didn't have time to put it into practice because we would have had much more experience. When I listened to today's discussion, I wondered whether to continue to include this bill in the great reforms of the PiS, which was announced by Prime Minister Szydło, or whether it was only a correction, as Mr Gryza said yesterday and today. And I think I'm leaning on that second opinion. We were afraid of a lump sum and that it would be anti-motivation, but in fact we only changed the name of the contract to a flat-rate contract. We calculate it the same way. If someone does less procedures, the next lump sum they get will be smaller, and if someone does more, they won't get everything, which means they'll be just like they are now. If someone didn't perform the contract, they would get less money, and if they exceeded the limits, they would once get a larger percentage of these super-limits, and once less. It's gonna be exactly the way it is. Complexity in itself is valuable, only that at the moment it also occurs, because many hospitals already have clinics that operate in better or worse conditions. Well, some don't and actually patients may feel lost, but in the contract system the NFZ paid for the hospital procedure and also paid, in principle without limits, for the outpatient care procedure. Whether it's hospital or non-hospital. Is this complexity about savings? The point is, in this crying, one hospital procedure will be counted with these tips? We haven't really cleared that up today. Generally, knowledge of this law is limited in society, creating uncertainty, fear. As you can see, also in this room, some of the ladies and senators have asked questions that are quite obvious to those who are in the middle of this system. These doubts were worth explaining today. I do not like to quote other people's statements or statements from years ago, but let me quote Minister Radziwiłł, because I value these statements, I identify with them. The first is that each government treats health expenses as a result of subtraction; first there are important things, then there are less important things, and finally what is left can be allocated to health protection. Well, that's not gonna change until, in principle, fiscal policy on health care is changed. Minister, I absolutely agree with that. You said that by pointing out the errors of the PiS government, because it was a 2007 statement. And it must be made clear that the moral responsibility of the whole Senate and the entire parliament is to finally start treating health care or health care as an important branch of the national economy, which requires proper funding. The next quote from the Minister, a little more recent, from 2014: "All the blame for the mess in health care lies with the decision-makers who are trying to introduce, without listening to the participants of the health care system in a hurry prepared, a bad reform without additional resources.' You're in a hurry to be reminded by the legislators. As far as the arguments for listening to the environment are concerned, I have read all four hundred or so environmental comments and there was not one positive one among them. They were all worried. We don't listen to this environment. And there's no extra money for that. The chances of success of this reform or of a minor correction are the same as in previous reforms, i.e. small. We're talking network. Looks like it's got all the public units in it. However, the records are so constructed that almost all private units which the Minister was kind to call a hub on the system at the Senate committee meeting will come out of it. We agree that the system is not free from pathology, we agree that it needs to be changed, we agree that it needs to be made better, but the direction taken is, in my opinion, a dead end. The huge primary healthcare sector is basically completely privatised and works well. Hence, I do not really understand this poorly concealed dislike for private entities. Extensive cardiology saved many lives of Poles. Is that that bad? I was talking about piloting, about how it's worth bringing him in. There are no constitutional obstacles to this and it is worth testing how this system or this correction will work in practice. In my opinion, this is possible and I am committed because I have proposed here the West Pomeranian Region that if you vote on this pilotage, I will submit to you detailed reports, intermediate and final, which have been the result. Finally, some politics, although I agree with the Minister, that politics must be kept away from health. I was inspired to do so by the arch-complicated formula for the calculation of the lump sum, which can be seen on the front page of the draft regulations. That no one I showed him to understands. Even mathematicians had some problems with it. And I think that's the cloud of this correction. Under the coat of this correction I don't call it reform anymore, because we're making big changes, and it's gonna get pretty much as it was. And despite many noisy announcements, words about taking care of the patient's well-being... Without any extra money for the system... This will end with saving some money in the chaos that arose when these bill projects were revealed. The units are to be less, not all can get into this system, and the sector that is not online will get 9% at its disposal. And that's already with this noble slogan salus aegroti suprema lex doesn't have much to do with it. I therefore call on the honourable ladies and gentlemen of the senators to reflect and, on behalf of the sick, please support Pilotage amendment. This way we may lose a year, but we will save people from uncertainty and potentially many sufferings. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u160	Thank you very much. Senator Wojtyla.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! I would like to say, in relation to Professor Grodzki's speech, why we are dealing with a network of hospitals at all. Well, the health services market is not the clean market that economics is talking about. It's not like this. in tailoring services, that if we develop more tailors, then the services of these tailors will be cheaper, or as in gardening, that if they decorate the apple tree in a given year, it will be cheaper for a kilogram of apples this year. Here the rule is that supply induces demand. There are rules in the health organization, e.g. Romer's law that says that every bed that is created will be 100% used. Let's say that in one county there will be 200 hospital beds for 150,000 inhabitants, and in the other district there will be 600 hospital beds for the same number of residents. Health indicators in this county, where there will be more beds, will be worse, because there will be events that will depend on hospital stays, including hospital infections. We have wanted to regulate the supply of health services since the early 1990s. In communist times there were no doctors, there were no drugs, and this supply of health care was regulated by a shortage of certain goods. The first such regulation was a regulation on professional and sanitary conditions to be met by health care establishments, a regulation to the Law on health care establishments. This did not have any effect because, under pressure from politicians, this regulation has been amended every now and then. This did not have any effect because the requirements for professional and sanitary conditions were relaxed. Politicians insisted on the minister that the hospital in the county did not meet the conditions, but could not be closed and therefore the regulation had to be amended. And that's what happened. Another guarantee of this supply of health services was the agreement of the voivodship to open institutions, but here again in individual voivodships the same happened. Politicians pushed, built and opened new diagnostic centers in hospitals, needed or unnecessary, and the demand for these services was induced. Ladies and gentlemen, I had an ordinary surgeon who noticed that when there was no MRI in my hospital and patients were taken to Poznan, three patients were sent there on average a month from the surgical department. At the moment, there's an MRI on site and you're doing three tests a day. Doctors do not perform simple radiological tests, the price of which is PLN 20.30, but such for PLN 1.5 thousand or PLN 2,000. They're doing more complicated, more accurate tests, but are they needed by this patient? Here's the question mark. If we do not regulate the supply market for benefits, we will have the situation that occurred in the 1970s in the United States when the oil crisis occurred and then... Well, there's a free market out there, so they just shut down these hospitals, and it's impossible for us to do that. I congratulate the Minister, also the courage to introduce such solutions before such an American crisis. Why a network of hospitals? It's because when those regulations didn't work... most of the resources spent in the Polish health system are on hospitals. It was decided for the Minister of Religion that we would regulate the segment that we spend the most money on, and that is why we are talking about the idea of a network of hospitals. There is a discussion as to whether that concept of your Professor Religion would be feasible. Well, the target is the same, the technique is a little different. And what would I like to talk about now? First of all, there's a definition of a hospital in this bill. It is said that the hospital is called an institution that performs such functions and has such a branch and has a hospital rescue unit or providing evening and Christmas aid. In my hospital, ladies and gentlemen, it's already working because the hospital has made a proposal in the competition and won this contest. And why is that? The point is that patients who come to a hospital with minor medical conditions do not block the hospital's emergency department and that this hospital emergency department provides assistance at the appropriate level immediately or in a very short time to those patients who require such assistance. That's my idea in the hospital. And there's no queue problem in the hospital emergency department. It's a good thing that's what you're trying to do. It's like a concept that causes hospital emergency services or emergency rooms to carry out the tasks they've been called up to. What is also important, this law introduces reference levels. I would like to remind you that the reference levels have been, have been in place and have been functioning in the care of mother and child since the early 1990s. Ladies and gentlemen, this concept has led to the fact that, at the moment, care for the mother and the child, especially perinatal care, is better than in the Western countries. Just look at health indicators, perinatal mortality, infant mortality; they are better than in England or other Western countries. Therefore, it can be said, in this way, that the reference levels must have an effect. Very good that they were introduced here. I would also like to draw attention to the quality of health services. You, Minister, are working on the Quality Act. And very well, because the problem with Polish hospitals is that there are too few intra-company hospital infections. In 2007, when I was the chief health inspector, a comprehensive control of all hospitals in Poland was carried out. It turned out that there were about 2% reported Hospital infections, and the WHO, the World Health Organization, believes that in Poland it should be around 10%. It's not like if there's less infection, it's better in the ward. This was the opinion of the National Health Fund in 2013 and was to be rewarded by those hospitals in which there are fewer hospital infections, because if they are not reported, there is no identification of the source of the hospital infection, the source of the spread of this hospital infection and no action is taken to prevent infection. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been overseeing intra-hospital infections at one of the hospitals. The percentage of infections increased from 2,5% to 11%, but the cost of buying antibiotics in a year fell by PLN 0.5 million. For the Director, this is a tangible proof of the relevance of such actions. I'm not talking about how many patients have been additionally ill with diseases other than those for which they were sent to the hospital. It's an infection. And how many patients died. I'm telling my students that if the patient hadn't died in the hospital, he'd probably still be alive. Well, unfortunately, this is the situation in many hospitals, and it is not only in Poland. There are more cases in Poland, but that is the rule. We were talking about geriatrics. Ladies and gentlemen, training more geriatrics is not so simple because there must be accredited branches, there must be accreditation places for these geriatrics to be able to do internships and to be educated. It takes years. And the internship is one of the most difficult specialties. Each of us, doctors, took a specialty, and we know that in the internship of those who failed... In my day, when I was taking the tests, it failed around 60%. And it's an underrated specialization. I think it's the internists. We shouldn't go to narrow specializations. They should treat the elderly as this patient suffers from a number of conditions, not just one specific condition, e.g. cardiac or endocrinological, etc. We talked about the private and public sectors. Ladies and gentlemen, the hospital network does not eliminate the private sector at all, because in fact private individuals are companies owned by the local government. These are private hospitals that go online, which is to say that private facilities are being eliminated from the market, it's not true, because it's clearly said... Such facilities . regardless of who is their founding body, who owns them They're also entering the system. Now I'm gonna talk about one more thing. The Minister spoke about the debt of health care institutions and the fact that last year it amounted to more than PLN 11 billion 200 million, and now it amounts to about PLN 11 billion. I was responsible to the Minister of Religion for the implementation and implementation of the so-called. Balicki's bill, which assumed the extension of health care facilities. We continued to implement this law and went down with the debt of health care institutions from 10 billion to less than 2 billion. Well, now it's 11 billion. This is proof that if you don't take care of the debt of health care institutions, you lose control, supervision, you get the situation we have. It's a shame. What we did... We continued with the idea of Minister Balicki, who was not a right-wing politician, but we thought it was a sensible project, and we came to a huge reduction in the debt of health care institutions. The lack of control, the supervision of debt led to a situation that took place before the Balicki Law was introduced, and that was a shame. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'm sorry I missed your time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u162	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Komarnicki, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u163	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The health system in Poland needs to be repaired. We all know that. The discussion's been going on for years. We can multiply problems because each of us knows how long queues are for specialists, each of us knows how indebted hospitals are, and everyone knows what kind of specialists are currently missing. We've been struggling with this for years, and, frankly, we can't solve these problems. But it is, the light people know that there is no perfect health care in the world that everyone would be happy with. That's why no one says it's okay today, and nobody says not to modify, Minister, not to change health care, but as everywhere, also in this case it takes reason, consultation and time. A very large part of the speech was devoted to this by Senator Grodzki, speaking with great concern about the time that needs to be given. Meanwhile, the project, Minister, even if I wanted to support it very much... It contains a lot of question marks, and not completely known answers. I am after a meeting with hospital directors who have signalled to me that the planned changes are causing the state of uncertainty in local governments and local hospitals as to the effects of these changes on institutions. Will they cause even greater problems than many hospitals currently facing, for which the local government is a founding entity, but also the owner? Here I must quote a fact. Well, my hospital, the provincial hospital in Gorzów, until recently was known as the most indebted hospital in Poland. And only thanks to the huge work, among others. Your Marshal, Lubusian parliamentarians, Lubuskie Seymour and the Ministry of Health has been transformed. Today, Minister, he is well, he is a shining example. If you want to. I even see Senator Chudowski's approval here. This can be changed in health care. However, I ask what will happen after this bill has been introduced. Here are the question marks. To this day, we are not really sure which hospitals will be covered by the so-called. a network that will be outside of it. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present only a few of the selected doubts raised by the proposed law. In view of the envisaged lump sum system for financing health services, the status of the patient in the new system as a possible unnecessary petitor, which is the financial cost of the hospital, raises concern. Also, the operation of a branch in a given medical facility on the network and those to which the hospital has not received a lump sum, while, of course, allowing the legislator to transfer the patient from one branch to another, complicates the rules on the settlement of benefits and the determination of the actual costs of the treatment concerned. Unfortunately, these doubts are more important, which is why I appeal: let's change and reform health care, but let's do it slowly, wisely. Otherwise, instead of changing for the better, we may cause even greater chaos in health care. And a word at the end. I support the amendment tabled by Senator Thomas Grodzki and, sir, Minister... The idea of piloting is interesting. It can be done simultaneously and improved... Mr. Tomasz Grodzki made a declaration that your resort and you, Minister, would be solemnly informed about the effects. We all think rushing is something that brings chaos and mistakes. And then we're gonna meet again, and we're gonna make amendments to the bill. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u164	Thank you very much. I'm asking Senator Chudowska to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u165	Thank you very much. Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I, for a reason and not to ask any tricky questions, asked about the hospital's debt. The government of this debt was more or less familiar to me, because these are well-known things that are accessible to the public. It's one of the clues that something has to be done. We have a debt of hospitals, a debt of more than 11 billion in health care at all. Whether it's a little more or a little less, it's a lot anyway. In 1999, when we started implementing the Act on Universal Health Insurance, commonly known as the Act on Cashews, we had at our disposal more than 20 billion PLN, the exact amount I do not remember. Today we spend more than 70 billion on medical benefits in Poland, and people's discontent increases. The appetites are getting bigger, and rightly so. As Professor Wojtyła said just now, the greater the supply, the greater the demand. And we can't wait for this debt to rise again, and the patient's dissatisfaction will grow. Maybe I'll apologize for bringing up the subject... They're not personal, but... I remembered all the most important laws in health care, which in the last 25 years, I'm going to say colloquially, I changed myself as the director of a small but independent, independent institution. All the terms of the Sejm and the Senate discussed the multitude of amendments to the laws in health care, including such laws that affected healthcare providers or directors, employers, in particular. The first such important law, epoch, is the 1991 law on health care facilities. What was in it? A lot of important things, but the most important thing is that for the first time in Poland's history the legality of the existence of health care establishments created by other than public entities was allowed. At that time it was a time of enthusiasm, foundations, associations, church organizations were established in Poland. There was a great need for activity, including filling gaps in existing public health services. They were rising... There were plans for a number of centres that had to be given a legal basis. This law gave this legal basis. But it soon started not enough because we existed because this was my legal situation, but we did not have access to public money. And such a next epoch law that improved the fate of all the providers. Not many people remember that today... Even those private doctors and non-public units who blame us for everything that's wrong have forgotten that thanks to this bill, the Law of the Government of AWS, the Union of Freedom, the famous Act on Sick Cash... It was the 1998 General Health Insurance Act that allowed non-public service providers to benefit from public funds by means of a competition and tender, then to the sick registers. Well, it's been really, especially for these non-publics, an extremely comfortable situation. Another such epoch, important law, which unfortunately broke the previous ones, was the Act on the National Health Fund of 2003, i.e. on the universal insurance in the National Health Fund. By the government of the SLD... all those who were then providing services and who had to deal with patients, and with the staff, and with salaries, saw how much lower the spending on health care, how dramatically worse the situation has been. Once again, we were better under the rule of law and justice when Professor Religa came to the aid of all the healthcare providers with a special bill, because then the Act on the transfer of certain funds to the healthcare providers, but intended only for remuneration. From now on, no... Later, the Civic Platform did not spend any money on increasing staff salaries for eight years. What do we have now? Now we're putting in place a bill, which is probably also, like the sick money bill, although it wasn't called... the hospital network law. That's probably its historical name, but it's not called it either. And we have problems, already discussed here. Problems on the patient side: queues to specialists to some up to 2 years; long waiting for operations So simple today, it would seem like cataract surgery or joint-protecting, sometimes even a few years... Patients are looking forward to these treatments for several years. For too long it is expected for high-specialized diagnostic tests in cases that do not follow the path of oncology, i.e. you cannot issue a DiLO card that accelerates these tests. Patients for an MRI or a CT scan, sometimes required to monitor the disease, wait several weeks, and sometimes several months. We all have a problem with organizing medical benefits. There's a problem with a huge contract-making buffaltery. There has already been talk of fragmentation of healthcare providers and the generation of advice and debts. And these cash shortages, staff shortages, financial shortages, intra-hospital infections... We have so many problems that we can't wait. Especially since, despite all the laws that were introduced, those reforms that we have been carrying out in Poland for the last eight years, let's say, what is the result of health care tests in Poland? We are in the 30th place among the countries of Europe. This is 2015 data. Only Lithuania, Montenegro, Romania, Serbia and Bosnia are behind us. Thirty-first place. So what are we waiting for? We just need to get to work. And that's what the ministry did. Is that too fast? There are also such voices that this goes too slowly and that it is high time for the law to amend the health care provision law concerning the hospital network to introduce. According to me, but it's not just my opinion that this bill is an attempt to sort out what we have. Ordering, making certain adjustments, and allowing monitoring of what is happening in health care, what is wrong, what needs to be improved. We've got a lot of work to do. The average age in Poland, the average survival of Poles and Poles, however significantly increased in recent years, is 73, 76 years, different values are given, but to catch up with the average life of Western European citizens, we need at least a dozen more years. We really can't wait. And we thank the ministry for this bill, because we believe that this will help us to sort out everything that we have, and the healthcare providers, and the doctors, and the equipment, and the hospitals, and it will help us to satisfy our patients so that the level and quantity of proper healthcare benefits is satisfactory for the nation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u166	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Locksmith.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u167	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Senate! I'm a moderate optimist about what we started. And I'll start with where Senator Chudowska ended up. From the Ministry's thanks that we are moving that this decision has been taken and, in particular, Minister Bites for the work he has done and for building in me the feeling that every provision of this law has a deep justification. Because I do not hide that in two meetings I pressed Minister Bite and convinced me that these solutions are optimal, optimal for the intentions we have undertaken. It is mentioned here, also in opposition voices, that the pathologies of the current system are obvious. Mostly we think about those who take out well-paid benefits, have a profit on them, but often avoid liability from complications and do not take less-paid procedures. I thought no one would defend this practice, but Senator Augustine's voice proved that even these practices could be defended. Well, he's absent... But what kind of grace is it that someone, taking a huge amount of money, paying huge amounts of money to doctors, buying modern equipment and making a lot of money on it, still doing it under decent conditions? After all, it's no mercy to him that these patients are better off. But in the four votes of the opposition senators who criticized this bill, I saw a single front of criticism of this bill... If these arguments were different, maybe I would answer them differently. But these arguments came down to the following: slower, later, piloting, consulting. And Senator Czarnobaj and Senator Grodzki cited the example of Professor Religion. You'd think since Professor Religion we've been able to get into today. But that was not the case, it was 8 years when the piloting used by Professor Religa could begin to read and reform. During these eight years nothing has been done, and the present, you can say, team at the Ministry of Health is doing what had to be done a long time ago. Why do we have this problem now that we can fix it much earlier? With regard to these 8 years, we have three things in mind in relation to the activities of previous teams and previous 2 health ministers. Firstly, it is a white peak. I don't know if any of you remember anything like this. For three months, the media continued to talk, interviews were held... The White Summit ended with one conclusion. Minister... Prime Minister Tusk said that one percentage point would raise the health contribution. It was loudly said in the media, everyone was happy, it was supposed to be after 2 years, and then it was very quietly withdrawn from the announcement. And this was the only conclusion of the three-month meeting of the White Summit. Then Plan B was implemented, which was the basis for such a strangling hug of the Commercial Companies Code into hospitals that have changed, which is to some extent also the cause of the current problems, and then the DiLO card, which we have recently improved. And for 8 years the obvious issue, i.e. ensuring hospital safety for patients in Poland, has not been taken up. That's what this crew does, and it's not immediately, it's after a year and a half of government. So calling for further extension of the start of the network implementation process is absolutely wrong. Let's get this reform started. She's not gonna be effective for the patients right away, but the later we start, the later she's gonna be beneficial for the patients, so let's start today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u168	Thank you very much. [[Blackhead one more time.]] [[Would the Minister like to speak last?]] I see. So there's been a change of order. Senator Blackbay. [[Because the name of the senator was mentioned.]] [[The Minister wants his last word.]] [[Sure.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I thought it was gonna be from this kind of performance. I'm sorry to be pointing out to you as a senator. Because I thought and still believe that there are some areas in Poland, including health protection, where we can differ and argue, because the dispute is part of progress, but some things about politics should be left, in my opinion, maybe some people here will be offended, for an election campaign. Here in this House, I think that's how the Minister feels about it. Our comments are not to point out the weaknesses of this project and to say: that is why he is weak because he is of Law and Justice. No. We simply submit our comments and the Minister will either consider them or not consider them, and life will show you if you're right... And God forbid, Minister, that all the rations that Minister and Mr Gryza put forward should be realized 100%, so that patients would be better accessible, etc., etc., so that the whole range of quality improvements in this area for patients through this law would be realized. Therefore, it's nice to talk about all kinds of things that the Civic Platform has done wrong... But let me put it this way: The Civic Platform lost the election because it didn't do everything right. And if you want, tell me about it for five more years. We are simply talking about the fact that some things introduced, whether in 2005 and 2008 and to this day were good. And wisdom lies in this, especially in the field of health protection, that the following elements are used: knowledge, statistics, wisdom and consultation as far as possible. If these four elements come together one day, there will be a project that will satisfy this House. That's why I'm talking about the storytelling, as Senator Majer said, that he's saying, "I'm in favour of patients... I want to declare on behalf of all the Senators of the Civic Platform: we're in favour of patients too. If Senator Majer says we're in favour of your solidarity... Well, didn't you listen to the given here information and today's debate? 91% money is spent in Poland in the public care system. That's first of all. Secondly, there's a difference in the definition that Minister... We used to talk about it when he wasn't Minister. It was on these seemingly disgraceful white peaks that, in my opinion, gave much because people met and talked. The public system is that the State finances the health system regardless of whether it directs the money to a private trader or to a public one. In Poland luckily Also in my opinion, because I also believe that this is a priority in the field of hospitalization. The significant part is, and the 90% It's a very good indicator, and it should be in the hands of the state. Because it's the country that's responsible for this policy. And that's a good indicator. But just because we ask, it doesn't mean that we want what the Minister fantastically quantifies about the state of today, that the best elements are being chosen... And we couldn't handle it. And maybe this flat-rate system will prevent it and make it more complex. But, Dear Lord, since we say that in today's system, the one proposed by the Minister, there is no instrument, no way to force hospital X, who doesn't have night care of the sick, there are no hospital clinics, so that he can have it, you can tell stories about a patient's well-being. And now what the Minister said, Senator Wojtyla. Mr. Senator, I checked so quickly... Because one of the important elements here is statistics given in a reliable manner. Because the debt for Polish hospitals or the Polish health system looks like this: about since 2004 there have been around 9 billion 600 million to 10 billion. I know you might disagree, but we're gonna figure out the sources, and then we're gonna say... In 2005, you are right, it was 10 billion PLN, about 9 billion 600 million, 9 billion 800 million, 10 billion, and the required amount was 2.5 billion PLN. The Minister has given us what it is now, which is 11.2 billion, so it's a slight increase. And that should give us some thought. Against 11.2 billion due. And that's a good result. And that's the result. e.g. actions taken over a number of years by different people, by different ministries, to improve financial efficiency. Because bad financial results are a matter of a very dangerous facility with such a financial result. And what's going on with the network... Senator Major said he was in favour of the network. So I also want to say this: I personally think 'Cause this isn't a club position, this is my position. The network is an important instrument for patient safety, but when it is based on epidemiology needs, on what we have, etc., i.e. on those instruments I mentioned in the discussion. So don't tell us things we haven't talked about. The Minister said... When there was a discussion here about the fact that Professor Religion proposed a network, the Minister said It's got into my ears. That the Platform had stopped this project. Well, I'll say two sentences here. I don't think it was the best move to stop working on the network. This is one thing, Minister. Secondly, I will say politically, Minister, yes: we have listened to your voice from 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 on the network, in an opinion referring to the network as something that is completely useless and unnecessary in Poland. Thank you very much. [[But he was talking about 2007, Mr. Senator...]] I'm in 2005-2007. We'll talk later...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u170	Senator Grodzki. Going twice, so five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u171	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Ministers! Not even five minutes, 'cause three's enough. I must say, she made me speak to a fellow locksmith. Because, to be honest, he kind of ruined his friend's discussion. We have been discussing the subject matter all the time, discussing the concern for patients, even though we have different views on the subject. I will say that the Civic Platform is working on a different approach when it comes to patient satisfaction in our country. I have a clean conscience because I've been in the middle of this system for the last eight years, and I've been doing ideas for the next 30 years. So I don't have much to blame here. The direction of the changes that we are going to propose will probably be different, but it will be linked to this project by common conviction. And Minister Radziwill, and mine. That we want to act for the benefit of the patients. We do not criticize this idea because I am from the PO, and you are the Minister from the PiS, because we are from the opposition, and you represent the government. We criticize him and discuss him because we care about patients. And that's why we're proposing piloting. Because we are concerned that assumptions, even noble ones, of this correction, which in total does not change much, can be harmful to patients. We ask for this piloting because every power will pass away the power of the PO, pass away and the power of the PiS will pass away. But if we do health damage to patients, it may be difficult to reverse it. And that's all that's driving us. Thank you very much. [[Professor, what about the office of shadows? You're the minister there.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u172	Thank you very much. And now Mr. Senator, at the same time Minister, Radziwiłł.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u173	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! We're still hesitating whether it's a big reform or it's just a correction. In the voices, especially those critical voices, I see these two directions of attack. We hear that this is a fundamental change, a revolution, turning everything upside down, and they say in a moment: no, that's just a little correction, and basically nothing will change at all. I think there's a little bit of a point in both, and in the other approach to this case. On the one hand, the law prepared by the government introduces a major change in the approach to the health system, which has been clearly pushed towards market solutions designed to self-regulate over the last few years. Turns out it just doesn't work. In fact, in any civilised country such solutions are not implemented, they do not work, and countries in which this market is relatively large, especially in the field of hospitalization, are far from doing so. This is the characteristic of the third world countries. There, the health services market is a competitive market. And, as you know, the result is that those who are wealthy are somehow able to cope, and those who are poor are doomed to care for missionaries or other charities of this kind. On the other hand, it's just an adjustment. Yes, it is. The very name of this law and the volume of this change, which is a revision of the Law on the provision of public-funded health care, shows that we are dealing with entering into a system that exists and not with the creation of a new system. So a little reform, a big reform, and a little correction. I think that the fact that we approach the system carefully and correct it only in a certain area, while maintaining a whole range of mechanisms and principles, is proof of our sense of responsibility. As far as this approach is concerned, the inhibition of phenomena which have led to a very large dispersion and destabilisation of the system, which in turn is the result of slowing down these market forces, is also a goal that we do not hide. Now, in a telegraph brief, I would like to address a few questions that have been asked. The majority have already been referred to by Minister Gryza, but it seems that the number of different comments and the intensity of returning to certain topics make it necessary, however, to make a reference. First of all, the problem of the elderly. Yes, indeed Polish society As most European societies grow older and older, they are certainly the majority of those who are being treated in the healthcare system, especially in hospitals. But I'm looking at this room right now... Ladies and gentlemen, if I were to ask you the question of which one of you would like to be treated in the geriatric ward... And I assure you that a large proportion of those sitting in this room meet the criteria of a geriatric patient. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I feel like this laughter is the answer. [[Thank you, Minister.]] No, not everyone, some are on the eve, and others have definitely crossed that line. [[The Bureau doesn't.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, geriatrics are not medicine for 90-year-olds... [[Voice from the room: 60 years old.]] Different qualifying, some from 55, from 60, from 65, from 70 years of age. What? Isn't there one in the O.R.? [[Voice from the room: No.]] They're here. Right? Ladies and gentlemen, let's be serious. Geriatrics is not the place we want to go. If any of you start an appendicitis, that person's gonna want to get into surgery. If someone's heart fails, they'll think about internship or cardiology and so on. Do you even need a geriatric? It is needed as a consultant, as an additional person, assistant surgeon, cardiologist, laryngologist, urologist, gynecologist, etc. That's how it works, and that's how it works all over the world. Of course, nobody even thought about eliminating geriatrics in Poland for a moment. But, ladies and gentlemen, a more appropriate approach to the problems of old people or elderly people is gerontology, not geriatrics. Geriatrics only apply to a tiny piece of what elderly people need. We're not eliminating geriatrics. Geriatrics as a specialty will, of course, remain. One senator reported how a small number of doctors are currently being educated in this specialty; it is our concern, but I assure you that this is not some kind of piss policy effect, but simply There are very few people willing for geriatrics. In fact there are 391 geriatrics in Poland at the moment. It's easy to see that there's about one geriatric per county. How can you build on this basis? Even if someone came up with this idea, A network of geriatric troops? With one doctor in every county? It just doesn't make sense. So these geriatrics we need, we need to educate more geriatrics, we probably need to educate even more other medical professionals, such as nurses, rehabilitationists, physiotherapists, who have the ability to approach the elderly patient. And this should be done in reference, highly specialised departments and geriatric clinics. They are needed, but certainly not in every district and this is not a solution for all elderly people. So this isn't the way. Those troops, those clinics that are, they're gonna stay, no one's gonna take them out. What's more, they're going to go online, as was mentioned. Older people who will be on the wards, e.g. Internist 'Cause that's where they get the most of them. They will be able to be treated in accordance with all geriatric treatment rules, including the use of so-called. geriatric procedures. The second point is the private sector and its situation. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I will make it very clear that no one is going to hit the private sector. There is no such criterion. There is no mention at all of the ownership structure of this law or regulations which are prepared for it. Does that mean the pryers will be gone by the way? Do we want to hit them? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, On the first level I'll remind you one more time. Public hospitals are around 15% , at an oncology level of approximately 15% . At other levels there are fewer, 1 But there's less of them just because... Show me the private clinical hospital. Well, he doesn't have one, so he can't go online. So there is no such impact at all. But by the way, it's worth realizing... Because there was this number: we have 1,100 hospitals in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, these are hospitals from about 1200 beds to, attention, 1 bed. Such hospitals are also registered in Poland, and it is not a small number. Hospitals under 5 beds are in Poland 80. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are talking about two hospitals, one of which has 1200 beds and the other one has 1 bed, then we are not just talking about reality, we classically add apples to pears. So even if... Those who smile because they don't believe that there are single-bed hospitals, they'll probably ask what kind of hospitals they are. Well, ladies and gentlemen, they're not hospitals, they're institutions that, for example, aren't. They rent 1 bed in a public hospital and sign 1 bed contract for it. And this is a hospital. Even if such a hospital disappears as a result of this reform, then, ladies and gentlemen, few will cry for it, probably except for the owner of the project. Yeah, but that's the hubby I was talking about at the committee meeting that some people are telling me about. Another case, a short time. Ladies and gentlemen, the first consultation of the draft law began in October 2016 and is due to take effect in October 2017. Is this a crazy pace? Today it's still March, we're talking about a solution that's gonna be fully operational in six months. Is this a crazy pace? This is a pace at which everyone can certainly prepare calmly for the entry into force of this solution, both the payer and all those directly involved. Patients don't have to prepare for this, as Minister Bite said, patients will benefit from it. But health care facilities themselves, hospitals themselves, as well as those who own them, in particular local government units, can prepare themselves. And this happens in some voivodships at the moment, e.g. in Pomorskie voivodship, which is actually a good example here. Ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Marshal of this voivodeship from the Civic Platform said: we are not afraid of the network, this is the solution for which we are prepared. Yeah, you can see that. So that doesn't threaten anyone. Whether we've asked everyone if we've listened to everyone, whether we've considered whether there were only negative assessments or whether there were positive... High Izbo, of course, if there is a consultation, comments are sent primarily to those who have some criticism, who want to make a difference. Those who see that everything is good don't send opinions, because why? Well, this isn't a place for cards. Indeed, among the various comments and positions that have been received in connection with the project or the work on the bill, critical comments are clearly prevailing. Well, it's perfectly natural, and it always is. But it has to be said that during the huge number of meetings of various kinds, which Mr Piotr Gryza conducted above all, but also other members of the management, including myself, personally, accepting various delegations, I really listened to many positive voices. Moreover, many such voices: why are you delaying it, faster, why it is in October and not in July... It was a great disappointment that this government work continued A little too long. But it's probably a good thing we have a little more time to breathe and to prepare calmly. Moreover, if there are some who ask if there were any positive opinions at all, I believe that at such a time it is necessary to recall the positive opinion of the committee of the common government and of the local government. It is a very important body, representing the self-government owners of the overwhelming majority of Polish hospitals, those directly concerned. If such a body, which is difficult to conceive of any political propensity for the government, gives such a positive opinion, then it means something, because it is substantive simply. There was doubt about what would happen when new hospitals, new institutions, and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very good that we are also discussing this. First of all, it must be said that many investments in the Polish healthcare system have been extremely chaotic for many years, completely uncoordinated, often realizes I do not say that someone's interests or ambitions, because that is the case, but above all, the erroneous human intuition, the feeling that something is needed, that something would be useful, and not necessarily so. Last year we introduced a very important system for assessing investments, he called himself IOWISZ, the Investment Proposals Assessment Instrument in the Health Sector, and, of course, after an opinion with this tool, it will be possible to implement them. The Network Act does not under any circumstances hinder such development. Why? Because if, after an opinion with this tool, it turns out that an investment is justified, it results from health needs maps, because that is, you can say, just drawn from health needs maps, then of course such an investment will be completed, the payer will write a competition for additional benefits and these benefits will be contracted. There's no risk of anything like this happening. And finally, the last issue that so many people are worried about is that the 9% That's how it sounds. Right? 9% for competitions, for what's off the grid. Once again, I stress very strongly: this is not a plan, a purpose, a direction, but this is a photograph of 2015. If in 2015 we photograph the value of the benefits made by those who will enter the network today according to the criteria, it will turn out to be 91% the appropriations that were spent in 2015 by the National Health Fund for contracts and over-executions paid and 9% We've got the other units. That's where the numbers come from. So it's not like the 9% It's not enough. Of course, it could happen that somebody's gonna lose in the contest. That's the way it is in the contest. Now the question is, why are we doing all this? In my opinion, these basic answers are 3 and one which is in some sense a common denominator. First of all, the system, like I said, is disorderly, distracted, chaotic, actually no one controls it, so we're organizing the system. Secondly, many hospitals are in trouble today. The question about debt is not a theoretical question, and unfortunately the answer is not theoretical either. Debt is a huge problem and hospitals are worried about their existence today. There are those that in recent years, the previous ones, when the rule was dominated, that if there are troubles, it commercialize, privatize, as a result of this action just disappeared from the map. And that's what happened under the previous rules. So again, it's not a theory that hospitals are in danger. They're really in danger. Thus, the stabilisation of hospitals, the overwhelming majority of hospitals, those hospitals which represent the basic security of Poles, which will simply be able to look forward with greater optimism and certainly look forward, in the perspective of 4 years, not months, not six months, not even a year, only four years. This essentially changes the situation of these hospitals in terms of credit, financial, staff, overall planning of all things, including investment. So this is it. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, thirdly, And that's really what we're doing. This is a question of patients. There have been many declarations here that we speak on behalf of patients, only that I still hear of concern about private individuals, whether lump sums or any other settlements are more favourable, whether homogeneous groups of patients should be used. What do patients care? Ladies and gentlemen, patients care about what happens to them. at the SOR, where two queues collide: people who are severely ill who are waiting for a reception at the hospital, and those who just missed their family doctor. And that's how it is. The fact is that in some hospitals in Poland next to the SOR there is actually a clinic of night medical care. But not everywhere. And we want this to be a routine solution for everyone. You can say, have we discovered America? No, we haven't discovered America. But don't worry about the hospital that more people will come to him. 'Cause these people are gonna come, but they're gonna come to the right place, some of them are gonna go to the E.R. or the hospital emergency department, and some are gonna go to night care. [[Minister...]] I'm almost done. So this is for patients. The patient who will be admitted to the hospital will not be the object of the calculation, whether the procedure is more or less cost-effective in his case, but will simply be the person over whom those who should lean over it will comprehensively lean over it. And finally, the patient discharged from the hospital will have a chance that he won't be, lost, in the city looking for help after the hospital, only the hospital will provide him with medical care and post-hospital rehabilitation. Well, ladies and gentlemen, is this a lot? Maybe not. But these are the issues that most hurt those who are the weakest. Because the most sick patients are going to the hospital, ladies and gentlemen. So it's all addressed to them. Ladies and gentlemen, finally, the final question. When it's said to delay it somehow, think about it, etc., or even say it's not a good solution... Ladies and gentlemen, those who say that should give an alternative. The alternative is what we have today. Really, as much criticism as it is directed towards health care... Well, I don't think any sector is experiencing the same dissatisfaction as health care. So it's not good. Something needs to be changed. Well, here we go. We want to change it not in the future, we just want to change it already. But don't rush. The alternative is the fall of hospitals, even greater their debt, even longer queues and in general the fatal situation, especially the fatal situation of patients. We want to change that. So this change is a good change. And really... So, finally, some of us have spoken here, we are talking in substance. I also appeal to your opposition senators to see that, indeed, even if this solution is not ideal, it is a good solution going in the right direction. I urge you to vote in favour of the bill without amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u174	Thank you very much. Senator Kraska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u175	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! First of all, I would like to thank you for your substantial work in the Health Committee. Because, in fact, politics during the work of the Health Committee is a little bit on the side track. However, when the bill goes to the Senate, this policy speaks much louder. And I think you can't have a locksmith Senator who's also an active doctor... But each of us is somewhat also a politician, since we have already been elected to the Senate. So thank you again and for the discussion at the committee meeting, but also for the debate in plenary. Maybe it's easier for us, in the Health Committee, to discuss this bill because we're mostly doctors, and that's doctors who are actively involved in this system. So every day we experience all these inconveniences and complexities of this system. We have talked a lot about a patient here, but I think we should also talk about health professionals who will also be involved in this change. And I think that this change will benefit not only patients but also health professionals. Indeed, the issue of private property and public hospitals has been raised several times here. Whoever read the bill did not find there such a formulation that one of the properties was preferred. There are certain criteria that qualify a hospital to a certain degree. So, I guess property doesn't really matter here. But it just shows that actually private hospitals, such typical county hospitals, where actually each of us can hit in the first place and where patients with various diseases go... That's the kind of hospital that's kind of for the first time... Well, these private hospitals of typical county hospitals are practically gone. The bill serves the patient. Indeed, what is important in this law and what maybe we did not talk so much about during the debate is that the patient will not be left alone at the moment. So this coordinated care, which is highlighted in this bill... The patient after hospital treatment will not be left to himself, but will be assigned to the appropriate clinic. We were talking about super-evidence in intervention cardiology in our country. Yes, it is. We have nothing to be ashamed of. The effects are comparable to those not only in Europe, but, I think, in world cardiology. Except we forgot about the patient, about what's going on with him. Many times these great effects that we achieve in interventional cardiology at this first stage, when a patient is hit with acute coronary syndrome, are unfortunately later wasted. Then the patient stays on the side, there's no further treatment to maintain the healing effect that we've achieved, not for a small amount of money. We were talking about the fact that night doctors will be de facto assigned to hospitals because the SORs are overloaded and waiting for them for a long time. I recently had a patient who was treated at the SOR in the Netherlands because he worked with his daughter so-called. He cut off two fingers. With these 2 fingers cut off in the Netherlands, the SOR waited six hours. Six hours of blood dripping on the floor in the hallway. That's why I don't think we have to be ashamed of our health care, that it's so bad. The Netherlands spends far more money on health care than we do, yet queues are not short, neither is waiting time. In the Seym debate, but also in this Senate debate, there was a problem of geriatrics. Indeed, taking care of older people... The concept of "older" is just a little fleeting. So, as the minister said, there are older people among us, but, I think, no one's gonna admit it. This should not be done only in geriatric hospitals. And I'm skipping the purely medical aspects here. I think that the elderly, apart from the good conduct of doctors, should also have a chance to contact their family. This is very important, ladies and gentlemen. If an elderly person goes to the hospital and is left to himself; if the family cannot come to her And a network of geriatric hospitals, if this were to arise, would certainly be in some distance from the place of residence of such an elderly man, so this contact would be difficult... Believe me, a patient of 80% often needs closeness, whether it's a doctor who's going to talk to him or if it's the nearest family member, so he just feels like he's still needed in this world. And finally... This discussion is the result of this discussion. Yeah, I think so. The opposition is in favour of this bill. Maybe he's not saying it straight, but in those voices, I hear you do something, you want to change something. In previous years, there was no such courage. Right? It was an annexation. But I think it's finally time to do something in our health system. It's probably not the perfect design. Time will tell. If there are any flaws, they can always be changed. But I think we need to give this bill a chance. And I also call on you to adopt a law without amendments. I know that there are amendments that we will proceed with at the committee's meeting. I think piloting is probably not a good solution, even from the point of view of the Constitution, because the Constitution guarantees equal access to social protection. It is difficult that in a certain voivodship, an esteemed Podkarpackie voivodship, the patient was handled differently than in the rest of the country. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u176	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted proposals of a legislative nature to Senator Augustine and Senator Włosowicz. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposal? No. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Health Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the collection, storage and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs. The text of the Act is contained in print No 456 and the report of the Commission In print No 456 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Dorota Czudowska, to submit a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Calm down, please. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u177	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Health Committee a report on the bill amending the law on the collection, storage and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs. The Senators of the Health Committee discussed this law yesterday 28 March this year. This law is an amendment to the Act on the same title of 1 July 2005. The current amendment is necessary because the European Union has issued new directives on this issue and it is necessary to adapt Polish law to EU legislation. This amendment is technical, as the Minister told us yesterday, but it introduces many new concepts, definitions... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I don't know if I can continue... [[I'm sorry. I'm asking you to calm down and allow the senator to speak.]] The revision introduces many definitions, terms and medical terms used in EU law. It has been almost 12 years since 2005. Medicine for tissue transplantation, cells, organs has developed a lot. International exchange of tissues, organs, cells has developed, today it is possible in the era of electronic communication system. Unfortunately, we also observe organ trafficking from countries outside the European Union. And this bill is intended to guarantee the full safety of both donors and recipients of cells, organs and tissues. This law introduces uniform systems for record-keeping, tissue, organs and cells, record-keeping, as well as uniform codes used in Europe... in the European Union. The bill did not raise any controversy during the committee's deliberations. Nor does it raise any legislative objections. Although the committee's deliberations were due to take place soon, the Ministry will have a lot of work to do in the coming months and weeks in connection with the tasks resulting from the adoption of this law. In the Committee on Health, the senators voted in favour of this law without amendments and also on behalf of the committee, I ask the High House to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u178	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no longer a minute's query to the Senator of the rapporteur from the place. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Katarzyna Głowala: No.]] No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the seventh item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Protection of the Environment. The text of the Act is contained in print No 460 and the report of the Commission In print No 460 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u179	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, together with a request from a minority of committees, on the Act on the amendment of the Environmental Law adopted by the Sejm on 23 March 2017. First of all, I would like to point out that the original draft, the parliamentary submission, included regulations concerning the following entities: the national environmental fund and the voivodship environmental funds. As a result of the amendments tabled during the committee's meeting, which were tabled by the committee, which I will immediately mark, approved, the exemption from the subject-matter of the amendment was regulated concerning the composition of the supervisory board of the national environmental fund. I'm gonna go over these amendments right now. The subject matter of the law itself... As I say, the original parliamentary submission regulated the rules of appointment and composition, the number of members of the supervisory board of the national environmental fund. The amendment caused the de facto law to concern regulations related to voivodship environmental funds. The purpose of this law, also justified by the Minister at the committee meeting, is to reduce the cost of the functioning of these bodies, i.e. the voivodship funds, and to simplify and speed up the procedures for the appointment of members of these bodies and, as a result, to improve their work. In the case of voivodship environmental funds, the amendment of the Act implies a reduction in the number of members of supervisory boards from 7 persons, as is the case under current law, to 5 persons and the number of members of the management boards of voivodship environmental funds. It can now be up to 5 people, and the amendment assumes that it can be up to 2 people. At national level, this amendment will result in estimated savings of about PLN 8 million for voivodship environmental funds. The novel also changes the way the composition of the supervisory boards of voivodship environmental funds is determined. As a result of the adoption of this novel, it will remain up to the voivodship to appoint 2 members of the supervisory board of voivodship funds, the Management Board of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management will appoint 1 member, the voivodship sejmik will appoint 1 member, who will act as Vice-President of the Supervisory Board, and the Minister of Environment will appoint 1 member of the Supervisory Board, who will act as Chairman of the Supervisory Board. On the basis of current regulations, regional environmental directors or their alternates, regional nature conservation inspectors or their alternates, the chairman of regional nature conservation councils or their deputies or the chairman of regional environmental impact assessment committees or their deputies, the chairman of the environmental committees of the Sejmists or their deputies, the directors or vice-directors of the departments responsible for environmental protection of the Marshals' offices, representatives of environmental organisations, representatives of economic authorities, the chairman appointed by the minister responsible for environmental matters. And I'm gonna mark something here. Previously, I signaled that there would be a reduction in the number of members of the supervisory boards of the voivodship funds, with 1 out of 2 members of the supervisory boards appointed by the voivodship coming from representatives of science or non-governmental organisations. As regards further matter governed by this law, members of supervisory boards are appointed and dismissed by the sejmies of voivodships. In addition, the Minister responsible for the environment shall be granted the right to appoint his representatives in the event that the members or vice-chairmen of the Council are not appointed by the voivodeship, the Management Board of the National Environmental Protection Fund or the Sejm of the voivodship within 30 days of the expiry of their mandate respectively. As for the part concerning the management board of regional environmental and water management funds, as I signaled, the board can count up to 2 members, i.e. the chairman of the board and the person... 1 or 2 members, i.e. the chairman of the board and... In the case of a second member of the Management Board, he shall be the Vice-President of the Management Board. As far as the committee itself is concerned, as I said earlier, 10 amendments have been tabled. Two proposals for amendments were included in the Legislative Bureau's opinion. Some of the amendments made during the committee's meeting, i.e. these 10 amendments, are consuming, as it were, the conclusions of our Senate Legislative Office. As I indicated at the beginning, 3 of these 10 amendments are of a substantive nature. These amendments concern the leaving of the 12th Supervisory Board of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. The argument of the amendments tabled is that these are amendments proposed by the local government, the Joint Committee of the Government and the Territorial Government. Of course, all the amendments were accepted by the Ministry at the committee meeting. The second of the substantive amendments concerns the determination of the remuneration of members of the supervisory boards of the voivodship funds, which were determined by the voivodship boards, i.e. the management boards of the voivodship sejmiks. Now these competences are transferred to the voivodships. The third substantive amendment clarifies, as it indicates, the continuity of the operation of the voivodship funds. This amendment aims to maintain the statutes in force until further statutes have been adopted after the amendment of the Act. About the committee meeting... The meeting was attended by Minister Gajda, who represented the government side. On the part of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, you were Vice President Artur Michalski. The argument of the government side supporting this parliamentary project was that this amendment would enable the functioning of the voivodship funds for environmental protection and water management to operate continuously and unbrokenly. In the current state of law, the chairman of the regional supervisory board of the fund appointed by the Minister of Environment in accordance with I'll tell you what. The procedure shall be approved by the Seymist. This procedure is not functional because such approval by the authorities of the Sejm often lasts from 3 months to even half a year. The amendment of the bill will certainly improve that. As far as surveillance is concerned, it can be said that environmental law gives the Minister illusory supervision of regional environmental funds, because the Minister of Environment does not really affect the activities of voivodship environmental funds, and the voivodship funds have budgets comparable to the budget of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. It is an invaluable amount, because it amounts to approx. PLN 2.5 billion. In addition, at the committee meeting, the Minister argued that the voivodship funds often fail to implement the strategy of the Ministry and the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management in the field of environmental protection and water management. A good example of the various actions of the regional flood protection funds indicated by the Minister is that of the various actions of the voivodship. In addition, the statutes of the voivodship environmental funds are allocated on the basis of resolutions of the voivodship sejmiks and they are not I'll tell you what. They are broadcast in the same way; there are different funds, managed in different ways. The Minister at the committee meeting also pointed out that it is not so that all the voivodship funds function not quite efficiently, that there are those that function better, and those that do not implement the strategies implemented by the Ministry of Environment and the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. There is also a lack of coordination of the actions of the voivodship funds with the actions of the national fund. At the stage of the work of the Sejm committee, an objection was raised against the unconstitutionality of the proposed solutions. Three legal opinions were presented at the meeting of the Sejm Committee, which critically refer to the draft amendment. Just in this situation. 'Cause it was a parliamentary project. Mr Skurkiewicz was present at the meeting of the Senate Committee, who also pointed out that there may be some doubts and reservations about the accuracy of these opinions. He gave an example of one of these opinions. If there are any questions, I will be able to answer the opinion. As regards the allegation of non-constitutionality, the government's position is that there is no risk of non-constitutionality, because the voivodship funds are, in fact, local legal entities, but set up by the Act on the Protection of the Environment, and not on the basis of local resolutions. As far as the operation is concerned, the voivodship funds are not really organizational units of voivodship self-governments, they are also not marshals... During the meeting of the committee, the judgment of the voivodship administrative court of 2010 confirming this thesis, in which it was pointed out that the voivodship funds are not powered by wealth by voivodship local authorities. Therefore, there will be no risk of non-constitutionality. In addition, the Minister pointed out that, in fact, in the current system, the voivodship has the supervision of voivodship environmental funds because it approves resolutions. As for the committee meeting itself... Various questions were raised, including the remuneration of the members of the Board of Directors of the Environmental Protection Fund. The rapporteur pointed out here that these amounts are very high, some 25 000 PLN, very high wages. Also about the organizational structures of these voivodship funds or the number of directors' posts in the departments of WFOŚ. Mr Skurkiewicz also pointed out that the members of the Management Board had a premium paid, and this is also an amount not insignificant, because the annual premium amounts are amounts in the order of PLN 55,75 thousand. As I mentioned at the beginning, there were 10 amendments to the law adopted by the Sejm, all with a positive opinion of the government, received a majority in the joint committees. I therefore request that the law be adopted together with the amendments annexed in the report. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u180	Thank you very much for the very detailed report of the committee meeting. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Piotr Flork, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u181	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The motion of a minority committee is a motion to reject the law. I submit it with Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka and Senator Piotr Zientarski. Why? That's because this bill is not good, it's harmful to local governments. It has actually, you can say, one goal, like many human rights laws: development, as it has already been said, of Pisiewicz. Ladies and gentlemen, in the explanatory memorandum to this law, there are two aspects: On the alleged savings in collegial bodies and on the simplification of procedures related to the selection of members of the supervisory boards of the Voivodship Fund. I'll be right back. As far as this procedure is concerned, it is actually about one member of an organic organisation, which is not going to be practically at all. And as for the savings, that's in a minute too. A practical change is aimed at two cases. The first is the exchange of all members of the 16 supervisory boards of voivodship environmental and water management funds for persons designated and subsequently appointed directly by representatives of government administration. Because I'll be right back. 4 representatives are actually elected by the government administration and 1 is chosen by the sejmik of a given voivodship. And that's one thing. The exchange of all members. And case number two is the board of directors. As it was said, until now the board could consist of up to 5 people, now it will be possible to consist of up to 2 people, of 1 person or 2 persons, in practice it will of course be 2 people, because it is difficult that there is only a chairman, so that there is no deputy, for various reasons, I will not explain it. But what does that mean? That means... 16 voivodship environmental funds times 5 is equal to 80 people. If you count off the Vice-Presidents that the marshal will point out, that's 64 people. Plus 16 times 2 is 32 people. That makes 96 people from the government. Well, the entire operation is to take about a month and a half after the amendment came into force. And now, ladies and gentlemen, how has it been so far, and what will it be like now? As far as the national fund is concerned, the Senator rapporteur has already said that nothing is changing here because there is an amendment. His supervisory board had 12 members, the bill included 11 members, but there's an amendment that's supposed to be 12, so there's practically nothing changing here. The change is only in voivodship funds, instead of 7 members there are to be 5 members. Now, who's out of it? So far, it has been the case that there have been regional environmental directors, the chairman of regional nature conservation councils, the chairman of environmental committees, i.e. those who know the environment, because there are environmental charges, where the money should be distributed... So they were people who knew the environment. Instead of these 3 points, we now have a new entry in the Act: point 1 I speak plural because it is written, but it concerns 16 voivodships, so in each particular voivodship it is a member appointed by the voivodship, a member appointed by the national fund and a member appointed by the voivodship from among representatives of science or non-governmental organizations. And what else was there? There were points 4, 5 and 6, which fall out of the bill. Who was there? Directors or Vice-Directors of the Departments for Environmental Protection of Marshal Offices, representatives of environmental organizations... Here was the problem, that the procedure in this case, in order to select a representative of the organization, took about 30 days, because it had to be announced, the marshal carried out the whole procedure and so it took a while... But it was one thing. This is the only simplification. But now there is no representative of environmental organisations, only a member of the council appointed by the voivode from among representatives of science or non-governmental organisations. So it fell out. The representatives of the economic self-governments have fallen out, they're gone. So, what's the fund's board look like now? 4 people designated practically, you can say, by the government Because of the environmental fund and the voivodeship A 1 person by the marshal. So these three people I was talking about, mentioned in points 1, 2 and 3, the chairman is appointed by the competent minister and the vice-president is appointed by the sejm of the voivodship. And this is all five, the board. So, in soccer terms, 4:1. And on the basis of that, the Marshal will be presented with representatives of the board, either one person or two, and the voivodeship board will have to approve them within 14 days, because if not, as I recall, I think the minister will do it for him. One more thing. It seems to me that the President has spoken out because the members of the supervisory boards of the Regional Funds are appointed and dismissed by the Minister responsible for the environment. That's the record in the bill. Members of the Voivodship Supervisory Board shall be appointed and dismissed by the Minister responsible for Environmental Affairs. It was a slip of the tongue. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is all about the composition. Which means we know who has the vast majority at the moment. In this way, persons who are not appointed and supervised by a local authority are not appointed by the local authority. They will have self-government resources and decide how to spend them. The institutional independence of local legal entities will be violated. The amendment interferes with the local government's powers to carry out tasks on its own and thus violates the Constitution's legal regulations I'm going to add something to that. - I'm sorry, I'm sorry. - I'm sorry. - I'm sorry. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, Article Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation Ladies and gentlemen, positions. Position XXXIV of the General Assembly of the Polish Voivodship Association. I remind you that this is a parliamentary project, which means there was virtually no consultation, but we have positions. The assembly calls on the Senate of the Republic of Poland to reject this project: we strongly object to the draft of a group of Members submitted as a parliamentary project which leads to the stateisation of funds, as well as the total loss of self-government character of the legal person by the voivodship funds for environmental protection and water management; the solutions proposed in the draft law are contrary to the provisions of the Constitution, with its Article. 15. Provincial Council for Social Dialogue. There's a division, there's two separate positions. If there's no compatibility, there are separate positions. The position of the local government and employers and the trade union side of the Trade Union Forum and the Polish Trade Union Agreement is separate, that is, from 28 February 2017. The position of the government and the union of NSZZ is separate from that of the same day. Of course, the government side and the NSZZ.Solidarity support this project. The Governing Convention of the Regional Funds for Environmental Protection and Water Management was discussed at a committee meeting. He also tabled amendments. With regard to opinions, Mr President said that in three opinions commissioned by the Office for Sejm Analysis, and also in the opinion of the Chief Bar Council, it is stated, inter alia, that the draft law is incompatible with the principle of decentralisation of public authority, as expressed in Article. 15 constitutions, in addition, may infringe Article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 and Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). 165 basic law. Ladies and gentlemen, this is all, as you always say, opinions, therefore they can either be accepted or not. In any case, all these documents we've read are negative opinions. I don't know what's positive. And now one more comment on the amendments adopted by the committee. It is very interesting to see the amendment adopted by the committee, the fourth amendment: detailed conditions for the remuneration of members of supervisory boards of voivodship funds for participation in the work of the board and the level of remuneration of members of supervisory boards of voivodship funds for participation in the work of the board are determined by voivodships. Until now, this has been determined by the voivodship board, and now it will be determined by the voivodships. And what is the reason for that? The reason is this: the amendment aims to change the body setting the terms of remuneration and the amount of remuneration in supervisory boards from board to voivodeship, since it should be pointed out that in the current rules, etc. It's the voivodship that oversees the Voivodship Fund. Well, I don't. The Voivodeship of these resolutions, like all others, whether it is the local government of the voivodship, whether it is the county or municipal authorities, controls, all resolutions control in terms of formal law, in terms of legality, compliance with the law, and that is normal. He's done it so far, and he's always gonna do it. This is the normal supervision of the voivodship over the resolution. The governor may still have oversight of the regulations, but this is another matter, I do not want to further develop this thought if there are inconsistencies there too. Therefore, I do not see any connection here, I do not know why the voivode should at the moment determine the remuneration of members of supervisory boards. I see I've got three minutes left. Why the change? To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to say that the objective is unambiguous, the goal is one: this is the ownership of voivodship environmental funds by the government. There's another way to do it. If the government wants to have full control of this, in my opinion, it could create e.g. long-distance troops in individual voivodships, then he would have full control, not pretend, because right now it's such a little bit of pretending that it's a marshal, that it's voivodship self-governments... In my opinion, this is a fake right now. It seems that the local government has something to say, there are money raised, there are professionals, there are people who know the environment in a given region, and I could certainly give some examples that I have dealt with, for example. mines, fees which are collected, where they should then be distributed, etc. And now it turns out that all of this will be decided by the people who are appointed by the government, 4 people... and 1 person who is to be appointed by the marshal. A complete reversal of what has happened so far. And, of course, there will be boards that will be appointed, designated by the supervisory boards. So it's total derogatory, it's another staff bill, because it's another replacement of all the members of the supervisory board and the board at a rapid rate, because within about a month and a half. So it's another staff bill. But on the other hand, we must remember that it can be different in different voivodships, because different environmental issues are in different voivodships. These environments are best known to people who live in this area. Therefore, he is appointed marshal, so the marshal creates an environmental development strategy, etc., that he knows all these topics. And now it turns out that it will be decided by people who do not know how and who do not know from, because they can be, I don't know... it is not known whether they will come from Warsaw or not from where, because decisions in this case will be government. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the property of voivodship environmental funds. It must be said that, of course, there will be great resistance throughout Poland, there is no doubt, because this is not the way to proceed if you want to take care of the environment in a given area. This bill goes in a completely different direction, which is why it cannot be improved. We also voted in favour of some of the amendments that have been tabled at the committee meeting because they are reasonable, but the whole law cannot be changed because it is fundamental. It's just a complete upside-down. It is therefore a minority request to reject the proposed law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u182	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Jacek Włosowicz.]] Senator Włosowicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u183	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Grabowski. Mr. Senator, does the bill specify the requirements for professional experience or training of persons who may be appointed to both supervisory boards and to the head and deputy or to a member of the board?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u184	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u185	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. As far as I am concerned, as far as what is in the content of the amendment to the law is concerned, the amendment does not cover such regulations. But do these regulations... the provincial funds operate on the basis of the statutes that have been passed by the Seyms so far. The content of the amendment does not cover such regulations, but the authorities are indicated, which will indicate the members of the supervisory boards, but about the qualifications not... It is possible that this is based on separate provisions. Perhaps here the Minister will be able to answer this question more widely.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u187	Senator rapporteur, are there any other criteria for the appointment of members of supervisory boards and management boards, criteria for e.g. higher education or secondary education or non-punishment? Are there criteria?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u188	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u189	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal, I will answer the same as the previous question, because the question you asked is related to him. The content of the new law itself does not regulate these issues and, as I said, it is possible that the Minister... Maybe there are specific rules that regulate it. I have no such knowledge, it was not the subject of a committee meeting, these issues were not addressed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u190	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, I would like to address the rapporteur. In other words, if the legislator does not regulate these issues, then the voivode, appointing members of the board, will be able to appoint any citizen who is not deprived of civil rights, i.e. de facto does not have to have any education or can only finish kindergarten and can already be part of the board of the voivodship environmental and water management fund? Is that so? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u192	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u193	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, you misunderstood what I said. I don't... You misunderstood. If you're asking me if that's how you mean it, then I'm saying no. The previous regulation of the Environmental Protection Act also did not indicate that, so to speak, qualifications. I read during the report of the committee meeting... I pointed out what kind of people, who were in what positions, in which functions, were chosen. Maybe I'll let me do it again. In accordance with current regulations, regional environmental directors, their deputy regional nature conservation inspectors, their deputy regional nature conservation councils or their alternates, the chairman of the regional environmental impact assessment committees or their alternates, the chairman of the committees responsible for the environment of seymists of voivodships and their alternates, the directors or vice-directors of the departments responsible for environmental protection of Marshals' offices, representatives of environmental organisations, representatives of economic self-governments, the chairman of the councils appointed by the minister responsible for environmental matters... About the last ones... [[Voice from the hall: That's what happened, isn't it? Is that what happened?]] That's what happened. I do not know whether the mere definition of the representatives of environmental organisations is that they can be designated... I don't think there's a criterion for education or experience about that either. Also in the case of representatives of committees responsible for the environment of seymists of voivodships, there are no, as far as I know, any criteria for the required education in order to be able to run for councilman of the Sejm and become president. So much for... I think the rest of you will see to it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u194	Senator Slugocki is still asking. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u195	Thank you very much. Don't you think, Senator? 'Cause I'm still asking you a question, if you don't mind. The fact that the environmental environment was broadly represented in the previous legislation guaranteed some kind of representation of different parties, different perspectives... Different: many entities represented circles dealing with environmental issues, but perceived from very different perspectives, which led to the fact that the environment... that various environments were represented on the management boards of voivodship funds for environmental protection and water management. It is a collegial body, so there was also a certain intellectual fermentation, a certain debate, a discussion. Today we have a very simple situation, that is why 4 representatives point to the voivode at its own discretion. With no criteria, as you have rightly pointed out, this is how the bill we are proceeding is regulated. 1 representative indicates the local government. Do you think that not representing different environmental environments will cause the operation of voivodship environmental and water funds to express only a very narrow, specific view on this issue? Wouldn't that be to the detriment of this area, de facto for the environment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u196	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u197	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I wouldn't exactly agree with you, because the supervisory board, as indicated in the amendment of the bill, this five-person, which is a narrower composition, is limited to... for the voivodeship, a person is indicated... a second, I'll read. Yes, a person from the scientific community, from among representatives of science or non-governmental organisations. And as I know, environmental organisations usually operate in the form of non-governmental organisations. So this solution does not preclude the appointment of such a member of the supervisory board of the fund. It's like the first part. I would also like to disagree with you on your current state of affairs, as you have stated, namely that the various intellectual environments are part of the supervisory boards of voivodship funds, management boards. Because it's not there, so to speak, given the intellectual criterion... [[I wasn't talking about an intellectual criterion.]] ...and it's more important to have a governing system in the voivodship. I guarantee you that if you look at the websites of individual voivodship funds, you will find there the names of activists of the Civic Platform, the Polish People's Party, and in some cases also of the SLD. These voivodship funds cement coalitions at the level of voivodship boards. [[And here's the dog buried.]] [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u198	Thank you very much. Do you have any more questions for the senator? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u199	I will return to the matter of formal and substantive criteria, namely education. It's understandable that a councilman by choice or a designated member of a non-governmental organization... It is understandable that there must not be an educational criterion for such persons, but by virtue of the law applicable to the board there are directors and vice-directors of the local government, and in the case of directors' positions, vice-directors are educational requirements, substantive requirements. The legislator in this project resigns from this composition, but some educational criteria should be found here. Even let it be a secondary education... Don't you think that's the way it's supposed to be?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u200	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u201	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal, this is my answer. You're asking me what I think. I'm the senator of the committee meeting. That thread wasn't raised there. I'll answer you, Mr. Marshal, just like I just said to Senator Slugock. As regards the composition of the supervisory boards of the voivodship funds, this refers to the chairmen of the committees responsible for the environment of voivodships and representatives of environmental organisations. I think that here this criterion of knowledge, qualifications, education is not taken into account.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u202	Do you have any more questions for the marshal? Thank you very much. Senator Slugocki. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u203	Senator rapporteur, it was very interesting what you said in your previous statement, answering my question. You have de facto appealed to the current headquarters of the regional funds. That's what you said. I will try to be extremely precise that these boards include representatives of the Civic Platform, the Polish People's Party, and sometimes the Democratic Left Alliance, if I understand correctly, because it is an emanation of the political structure of the seymists of the various voivodships. I don't know if you'll admit it, but that was the sovereign's decision in these voivodships. We agreed on 5 June 1998 that we would appoint a local government... I ignore the issue of the county, because in this context it is important that we agree on the appointment of the local government, which among others. will be responsible for shaping environmental policy. So those representatives you've been kind to say have a social mandate, they have a legitimacy from the sovereign. You often refer to the sovereign. Why do you not want to accept the sovereign's decision in this case? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u204	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u205	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I, Senator, will answer in this way: I have told you the truth. That's just the way it is. [[But I'm telling the truth, too, that they've been...]] I told the truth what it was like. A member of the Senator's minority rapporteur said it was some kind of attack on some people out there, some jobs. No. I told you what the situation was like, what it looks like. What's more, I'll expand my speech. At the committee meeting, during the committee meeting, the Minister also pointed out that when it comes to the politicisation of voivodship funds, it has a strong impact on the allocation of funds. Because it works and works in such a way that there are mayors, uncles or presidents who will never receive these funds because they are not from such a political broadcast, and there are those who receive funds from voivodship environmental funds in excess. This was also the subject of a committee meeting. One more thing. I'll try, too, Senator, to be quite precise. You used the formulation of environmental policy. Well, that's what I'm going to say, the reason for this amendment is that the voivodship funds don't exactly fit into the environmental policy developed by the Ministry of Environment and the National Environmental Fund. Let me remind you. And I signaled it, and he also raised it, seems to be the senator rapporteur for the minority. That this is about considerable resources, that is 2.5 billion PLN on a national scale. About the same budget has a national environmental fund. And these are not the own resources of the local government, but funds in the form of public tribute. If the Ministry's representative indicates that regional environmental funds do not implement comprehensive strategies, only on a self-government basis the legal person of the voivodship funds are so independent that they can shape their own policies... It doesn't matter that in the neighboring commune, in the neighboring voivodship, behind the copper, you might say, this policy will look completely different. This will not create coherence. And that is one of the reasons for submitting a message to change these regulations.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u206	Senator Slugocki, still.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u207	Mr. Senator, you started with truism, which is public danin. Well, it's natural, the state budget is public tributes. And any revenue deriving from the state budget, including, of course, the resources under the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, are also public tributes. But, as I understand it, we are not trivializing the debate, we are not discussing the Truisms here today. And if you accuse these voivodship boards of a fund for environmental protection and water management, that they redistribute money from public danins in an unseen way, what you said and what I referred to... This is not, Mr. Senator, the question of manpower by voivods, in 16 Polish regions... That's not gonna solve this problem. In my view, the problem will solve the right criteria on the basis of which this redistribution will follow. And you will admit that here, more the minister responsible, or the minister responsible for the environment, should try to regulate this issue. If you are talking about the fact that there is no coherence between politicians led by 16 Polish voivodships, then this is some utopia and nonsense. I propose to refer to the system of order in the Polish country. The Minister of Environment has enough instruments to, among others. preparing relevant documents of a strategic and planning nature, thus creating a state policy on spending money from, among others, from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, to achieve this goal, which he will set himself as fundamental. Clearly I say it with regret, without satisfaction, with care rather It is nothing else, Mr Senator, like the assassination of successive positions by the government, not the concern for the implementation of environmental policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u208	Was that a speech or a question? [[Question.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u209	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I don't think you've listened enough. I... [[That's very accurate.]] No, Mr. Senator. I don't accuse voivodship environmental funds... I merely raised, repeated the arguments which were indicated during the committee meeting. I don't think you listened very carefully here. And what's more, I supported these arguments with concrete examples of actions that don't fit in... are implemented in different ways. I gave an example of the policy of voivodship funds in the field of flood protection, also the policy of voivodship funds in the field of smog is different and different from the strategy implemented or indicated by the Ministry of Environment and the national fund. What's more, you also pointed out, Mr. Senator, that the criteria were very exposed. is the word "sharing' of these funds. No, it's not. Regional environmental funds set the criteria individually and on these criteria, for the establishment of these criteria by the Minister - No, I think the Minister will answer you in a moment. Environmental protection has a limited impact or no impact.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u210	Senator Blackbay. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u211	Mr. Marshal, I have an inquiry for the Senator of the rapporteur. Mr. Senator... [[I like the senator's questions very much.]] If you could answer with one word, yes or no... Do you agree with the idea that the bill is an important element of strengthening voivodship authorities in Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u212	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u213	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'll answer you this: I can't answer that question in one word... [[Oh, thank you, too.]] ...but I can answer in a few sentences, of course, if the senator agrees. There was even this charge, I wrote it down, and it was Senator Florek, the senator rapporteur of the minority who used it, that it was a project harmful to local governments. I do not consider this project to be harmful to local governments, because the level of resources remains the same, environmental and water management programmes will be implemented... He may in some cases be harmful to the current functions of organs. Yes, it is. Let's tell the truth. To whom will it be harmful? I think not for the voivodships. And I'm also not convinced by the argument used by Senator Flork that someone would be, with an apology, in a suitcase, bringing a member of the board of directors or a member of the board. I don't think so. That, I think, is the right answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u214	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator... [[Mr. Marshal, I had two questions, and the other is... if you'll allow me...]] Yes, yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u215	Mr. Marshal, I have a question for you, Senator Flork. Here is a thread of certain criteria for people who have different functions in national funds, in voivodship funds... You, as a former voivode, maybe you'll remember, maybe you know what's going on... Are there even any criteria for bodies in national or voivodship environmental funds, whether on the board or on the supervisory board?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u216	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u217	I'd have to check the bill, it'd take me a while, but I'm sure as far as the national fund is concerned, these are the criteria for the president of the national fund he has to meet to become president. Mr Marshal noted that, in connection with this change, the number of members of the Supervisory Board from 7 persons to 5 other persons is part of the board, i.e. requirements. about the head of the department, etc. the Marshal's office or the representative of the Sejm will not be there. I'm just reminding you that there's an e.g. in the bill. such a provision that the Member of the Council shall designate a voivode. Period. He's marking. So he can designate everyone, he's not listed anywhere in the bill, in the amendment, which requirements he has to meet. As far as the national fund is concerned, I remember that such requirements really need to be met, but this was a very different situation. At the moment, the composition of the Supervisory Board is changing and it would be appropriate to also set certain criteria.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u218	Do you still... [[That's it.]] Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Bonisławski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u219	Thank you. Since you have used a lot of such arguments that voivodships do not implement strategies, do not fit into it, it was also said that people are misplaced on supervisory boards, that funds are badly distributed According to political criteria, as I found out I would like to know if these were concrete examples and in which voivodships this took place. For several years I sat in the Sejm of the Łódzkie Voivodeship and I saw that only professionals had ever been appointed to the Supervisory Board. Now I've opened a website 'Cause I'm saying maybe something's changed. And I see that for 7 people they all have the right preparation. The Provincial Environmental Inspector is here, and the Chairman of the Regional Nature Conservation Council in Łódź, Jeronim Andrzejewski, and the Director of all landscape parks, etc. Only Ilona Rafalska, Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment of the Sejm, is only a teacher of nature Maybe she doesn't fully meet the criteria here. But I think that such generalization is detrimental to many voivodship environmental funds, which are governed by certain accepted work plans, strategies and, for example, through the voivodship environmental inspector or through the ability to supervise the Łódź voivodship, one can always have an influence on this, including government. I haven't noticed what you've already said a few times, which is that in terms of flood prevention, it's bad. It's happening here. It is quite the opposite with us that everyone accused the board of directors that too much money was spent on this type of activity. So I would very much ask for such examples... If they were, maybe it'd be worth it not killing. 'Cause the savings that we talked about here, too... Someone said that maybe 5 million savings would be achieved by eliminating certain people. But this does not speak to me either, because today the casts of the companies of the State Treasury by people who have absolutely no idea of what they are aimed at are causing more losses. I'm not talking about Mr Macierewicz's committee anymore. And there we have 2 million losses and no effects. So that's... I'm sorry that maybe it's so nasty at the end... but it's bothering me. [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u220	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u221	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, the amount of savings is not $5 million, it's $8 million. Well, Mr. Senator, here's what I'm going to say: for one eight million, maybe it's a small amount, and for others it's going to be a significant amount. Firstly, the main reason for the amendment of the law is the organisational improvement. And that's what the senator heard, too, because I put it up. This was the rapporteur's argument: it is about improving the functioning of the funds, coordinating with the activities of national environmental funds and a strategy set up by the Minister for the Environment, who is really the owner of the Environmental Law. As far as examples of resources are concerned, they have not been indicated. But as I say, I report on the committee meeting and present what was discussed during the meeting. And there, such statements from the Minister or from Mr Skurkiewicz, the rapporteur, were made. You can find it in a transcript, listen to it. One more comment, Mr. Senator. I noted that during the discussion at the committee meeting, the Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection pointed out that not all regional environmental funds operate... some work, so to speak, not entirely in accordance with the strategy of the national fund and the Ministry of Environment. Some of these funds... Besides, it was also stated that there are some voivodship funds that are well managed. However, not all are perfectly managed. So much for... I don't know if I've exhausted your curiosity and answered your question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u222	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Pup. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u223	Senator rapporteur, there have been many questions about the criteria for the appointment of new board members, deputies, members of the supervisory board. I have a question for the senator, because the subject matter of the discussion is the amendment of the Environmental Law. Does this novel change the criteria so far applicable to the appointment of members of supervisory boards... [[Talking in the O.R.]] In the sense of competence, I am talking here about the competence of the presidents and management boards of regional environmental funds. Because I don't see these criteria changing. A lot of senators have just pointed out that... it's like they're undermining the idea that there's some kind of change going on here. Maybe I haven't read anything here about any changes that might be happening. I'd like you to confirm it or deny it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u224	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u225	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I'm going to answer your question in this way: in fact, only the dispatchers pointing to the members of the board are changing. In turn, the previous or current law does not indicate the competences needed for the positions of members of supervisory boards. As for the selection of the fund's management... the fund's management is chosen by the board of directors, right? So here, in fact, there will be no change either. I think in the case of the board of directors these criteria, I don't know if the ones that... There are probably criteria set out in the statutes given by the seymist. [[Yes, they are. Environmental law...]] I suspect these criteria are. And here, nothing will change in this respect. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u226	Thank you very much. Senator Rotnicka. I'm asking you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u227	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I am a member of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Local Government, of course I attended this meeting. In fact, I believe that the questions which are addressed to the rapporteur should be addressed to the Minister, because the question of his personal assessment actually leads to some sort of discussion. But one thing made me think about it. I would like you, on the basis of the irregularities that exist in the Seyms that operate without coordination, to point out exactly what is going on, because if you don't... The Minister should tell you why the Ministry did not respond to such matters in due course. After all, there is a Supreme Chamber of Control which could indicate certain things and the appropriate consequences could be drawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u228	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u229	Thank you... [[You were talking mostly about smog, you were talking about flood cases. Are you familiar with such examples?]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mrs. Senator, as you pointed out, you are a member of the committee, and you were also present at the sitting. So you know perfectly well that the examples were not given, but in the course of... I repeat, this is a report from the committee meeting. I think the Minister will be able to give examples of smog policy or flood policy, where some... I think you also used the unfortunate word "irregularity." It's more about strategy, coordination, that it's not national action, so to speak, uniform. They do not always have to be uniform, because different voivodships have different problems. Right? So it doesn't seem... However, there are areas where these activities should be coordinated, and according to what the Minister has put forward, this coordination is not entirely correct.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u230	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. I'm asking you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u231	Mr. Senator, what resources did the regional environmental funds have? What kind of measures?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u232	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u233	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal, let me answer you for the third time. As I am pointing out in general, a total of PLN 2.5 billion is available at the national level. This is what the budget of the National Environment Fund is, more or less, and the funds under the Fund are funds... About PLN 2 billion is distributed in the form of loans and about PLN 500 million in the form of grants. He's got a lot of attention here, too. I just don't remember if it was the Minister or the Senator rapporteur. The aim of the government and the national fund is to reverse these proportions; for most of the funds to be granted in the form of grants and for the smaller part to be granted in the form of loans. The argument was that local governments have financial problems, that local governments are very often overdebted, because simply these loan funds burden their budgets and the grant is a better form. One more thing. As the marshal asked, let me answer, but I can't remember whether it was the Minister or the rapporteur... We are talking about 2.5 billion on a national scale, but there are also funds from funds that are the responsibility of the voivodship funds. And with such a concern, the Minister or the rapporteur In the past perspective, all the voivodship funds implemented regional operational programmes, and unfortunately in the current perspective 3 or 4 voivodship funds are implementing regional operational programmes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u234	You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u235	Yeah, yeah. I heard you were... Thank you so much for repeating this sum of 2.5 billion. I've heard of her before. But I am also referring to EU money, which is the responsibility of the voivodship funds, together.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u236	Then I'll answer you like this... [[It's a lot more than that.]] It wasn't an object... That wasn't the amount at the committee meeting. I think the Minister will be able to provide... [[Okay, I'll ask the minister.]] ...sir, Mr. Marshal, the answer to that question. [[What about the National Fund? How much?]] Two and a half billion, too. These are roughly equivalent measures. National fund 2.5 billion, 16 voivodship funds combined also 2.5 billion. [[I understand that together, the national fund with these voivodship funds is 5 billion plus European funds.]] Yeah, plus European funds. [[I will be the one asking for the Minister's European resources.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u237	Thank you very much. No questions. Thank you very much to the rapporteurs. The draft law was introduced by Members. The Minister for the Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome to Minister Mariusz Gaida. Hello, Minister. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u238	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! It is my honor to present the government's position on the proposed bill. The government's position is... The government supports the bill, the draft of this change. I'm about to justify why, but I'd like to start by saying... It is in the position of government, which is published among others. on the pages of the Government Legislation Centre and in sejm printing for print no 1127. It points out that, above all, this project does not break the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, because voivodship funds for environmental protection and water management are, in fact, local legal persons, but in the context of the Public Finance Act they are not local authorities, nor are they the bodies appointed by the local government, and they also do not have the resources that come from local governments. These are not resources that come from local governments. These are public tributes, generally of different categories, for the use of the environment. The fact is that the Marshal of the voivodship collects these public tributes, but does not do so for free, as he collects for these activities, you can say, a commission of 3 These funds then go to the voivodship funds. Voivodship funds also have the entire financial economy, because there are funds that fund in plus these voivodship funds every year, but they also have resources. ..because they are legal persons. The loans are mainly from loans, i.e. loans and interest payments, and can also, for example, be used. to establish limited liability companies and to obtain income from these companies or to have losses in these companies; this was, among others, the case. in the Voivodship Fund in Gdansk. You could say we're not violating the article. 15 and 16 constitutions. The Senator rapporteur has already justified this, and I will not repeat it. Of course, it can be said that it is a word against a word, but ultimately both senators and Members always have the right to refer the bill to the Constitutional Tribunal if there are still such doubts. [[To the Court? In three years...]] I would now like to talk about the objectives of these changes. This change is aimed primarily at improving the functioning of voivodship funds, but also at real implementation of environmental policy for which the Minister of Environment is responsible. At the moment, the situation is that, while the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management must implement environmental policy, while the voivodship funds can in any way... it can be said that they can shape this policy in any way, based on local conditions, of course, because it is known that there will be no smog on Hel, just as there will be no storm response in Nowy Sącz, that is logical. Nevertheless, this policy should be coherent. How is this happening right now? I was basically on the supervisory board three times on behalf of the minister of the environment. It seems that a list of priority tasks is established each year. And that's the cloud of the matter when it comes to later disposal of funds. Because there are goals on this list and, nothing to deceive, often these are politically colored goals, i.e. objective goals are set, but those which can achieve such and not other local governments. What else should it be? Theoretically, joint actions of the voivodship funds and the national fund should still be established. In practice, it looks different. As I said before, a list of priority tasks is set, criteria are set. That's what the senator mentioned. In fact, the Minister of the Environment has no impact on the setting of these criteria. Of course, the chairman of the supervisory board may vote against, but that's the only thing he can do. This is done according to the law, you can't accuse anything. And there were examples... 15 years or 16 years ago in Łódź there was actually a very big scandal in the voivodship fund. I'm guessing President Marek Kubiak, a known person... There's been a very big deal. This is generally legal, but there are some political colors. I'd like to say one thing. In these positions, you accuse the State of the opposition that there are regional environmental and water management funds. Aren't they state? Excuse me, isn't this the state? Self-government is just as much a state as a government. We're all a country. All public authorities are state authorities. You can't say here that this is a state. If it were private funds, and the government suddenly did it, and I say it rudely, to jump on these private funds, then, yes, you could talk about nationalization, nationalization. [[That's for starters...]] [[There's no discussion now.]] But these are state funds. Few of these funds, as I said earlier, have the state funds from public danins, i.e. state danins. Take a look at these changes. In fact, only 2 people from 5 people will be, you can say, broadcast from the headquarters in Warsaw. The remaining 3 people will be people from the regions. After all, the voivode will not appoint a person from Warsaw, but from the region. It's obvious. By the way, it's a question of education. There are no criteria for the education of the members of the supervisory boards at the moment, but please indicate to me any chairman of the supervisory board The Minister points him out. Who has lower education than higher education. There's no such person. [[Senator Waldemar Sługocki: But there have been such cases.]] There have been cases, yes, for the last eight years. [[Senator Waldemar Slugocki: And Mr Misiewicz?)]] [[But this isn't a discussion.]] This isn't Mr. Misiewicz's case, it's just... As regards the criteria for boards, I would like to make it very clear that this law changes the number of board members It can be from 1 to 2 people. At the moment, there were even five of them in some voivodship funds. There were 4, 5, 3... boastful exceptions, very good ones, were in Pomorskie voivodship and in Świętokrzyskie voivodship, where there were 2 members of the board. They were everywhere else. at least 3 people, while the national fund currently has 4 members of the Management Board, and it has about the same resources as all voivodship environmental funds combined. There was a charge here that the so-called representatives would not be involved. NGOs. According to our observations, this is a fiction. They are people who always vote the way the board wants. And as far as entrepreneurs are concerned, they shouldn't really be in it from the very beginning, because entrepreneurs can't influence financial activities, on certain financial directions, because in this way they'll gain the knowledge that will then allow them in unfair tenders and proceedings... Once again, I would like to make it very clear that the basic issue... That's why I support... I'm sorry, the government supports, but I personally support this bill as well. That's what the senator asked me. It is necessary, so to speak, to refresh the activity of the voivodship funds. These voivodship funds, as you can see, are often managed by the same people for many years. Sometimes very well and sometimes not very well They have become nothing more than this, one might say, not to use the wrong expression, an instrument to finance certain objectives not only related to the environment. And here it is really necessary, the need for coordination of regional actions The regions know the best about this. In conjunction with global action. I'll give you an example of smog. LIFE+ was a programme for the Małopolskie voivodship. It was supposed to be a national fund for energy advisors, but the national fund offered it to be a loan. Yeah, but abstracting from that... Why would this grant only be granted to the Małopolskie Voivodship? Why not Silesian? Why not Lower Silesian or Podkarpackie? There's a smog problem there, too. Therefore, there was no joint antismog action. The same is true of what I said about flood protection. Indeed, some funds have carried out these tasks perfectly. Of course they are. And it's also kind of the role of voivodship funds. Often the tasks of government administration, there is nothing to be deceived. But there were also such funds... as far as I know, the Malopolska for the last many years has not given any gold to protect against the flood. Maybe I'm wrong, but my information shows that. Some of them were very good... e.g. in Pomorskie voivodship, these were, as I recall, very small measures, representing approximately 1 the total resources for environmental protection and water management. And the same when water management plans had to be carried out, only part of the voivodship funds And, in fact, regionally, these are very important plans. She graciously agreed to subsidize the execution of these plans, and some refused to do so. In my opinion, this should be... I know that you are about to say that this is a prescriptive policy, but in a sense there must be a common line of action to achieve synergies. 'Cause what if there's some money in here if there's a roadblock? Therefore, the voivodship funds play a very important role in subsidising or financing local projects related to the national fund. So that's like, uh... if it is a smog issue, it should be such that the amount that the national fund transfers to the voivodship funds, which then all these minor local problems try to solve. Now I will return to the criteria, to self-government. Perhaps... Indeed, it is known that regional governments are unhappy with these changes, but I must say that many municipalities, especially rural municipalities or municipalities, towns and towns, are not at all unhappy about this. Why? Because these communities were getting the least money. However, there should be some principle of solidarity. Where there are very rich cities... These cities can't, so to speak, eat most of the funds because there's a politician in charge. And small towns that need resources, whether for sewerage or for air protection, or for other extremely important environmental activities, do not receive them or... There were examples, I remember, about 10 years ago, that the mound came and said: but I do not have my own contribution, because we are a poor rural community. It was somewhere around Łeba, I don't remember the name of the commune. And he said, "We are a poor community that has no income." In this regard, it was enough... And then I suggested: well, if there is a municipality where you have to give a relatively small amount of grants, 1 million PLN, and then a loan, then this is how you can do it. Turns out no, you can't, because there are criteria, and besides, it's such a poor community that they can't do it. And right now, it's getting a vicious circle. But there was a lot of money in the big cities. I would like to say that, here, our role, the role of the Minister of the Environment, should first of all be to build objective criteria. These criteria should be objective, and please note that e.g. The national environmental fund has very objective criteria. These are the criteria related to the Operational Programme Infrastructure and the environment, among others. The city of Warsaw received a powerful grant. They receive grants from the city, e.g. Gdansk... Where you can do politically... Cities that meet the substantive criteria receive funding. There's no political tone here at all. And we want to do it too. It's so there's no political colors. And what I would like to say is to stress. Question: Is this an attack on local governments, or is it Maybe a political dispute after all? [[But we will answer these questions...]] I'm curious how it's gonna be in some years if the political option changes, or suddenly, the first day. Let's hope it doesn't. You'll change that immediately after you've come to power. I'm having a lot of doubts here. [[Let's go back to the bill.]] Okay, right up to the bill. Excuse me. Because I'm trying to answer all these questions, too. [[No, no, we'll get to the questions later. We'll ask for the government's position.]] Good. As for what I was talking about, about this education, there were really no criteria, and the statutes will be able to determine these criteria. In conclusion, I would like to say that both the savings of PLN 8 million and the improvement of the functioning of voivodship environmental and water funds deserve support. I am also pleased that there will be no change in the national fund. Although this change would also bring savings, but little. I'd like to thank the Senate for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u239	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? First Senator Slugocki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u240	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you, of course, for this introduction. I've noted a lot of contradictions in your statement. On the one hand, you say that there are these criteria, on the other hand you deny it, says that there are no criteria for the distribution of funds between large and small municipalities, political colours decide, do not decide. You were very vague and, depending on the context, you presented these issues differently. So, question. Minister, I'll start with the criteria. You mentioned the Operational Programme, Infrastructure and the environment, you spoke about small municipalities, that they are being pushed aside and do not receive funds. Minister, you must know this as Minister, Deputy Minister of the Environment. Now, as far as the redistribution of European money is concerned, you will admit that, in the previous perspective, money from the Operational Programme, infrastructure and the environment, have gone to agglomerations above 15 000 RLM, is one condition and the other condition. At least 100 people... [[90 people.]] Now. ...for a kilometer of the current sewer network. There were completely different criteria for regional operational programmes. Right? There were between 3,000 and 15 thousand RLMs plus the same indicator for 1 km of current network. There were still other criteria when we talked about the Rural Development Programme. There, those little local government units could have knocked. So at the level of designing the use of European money, we have decided how this money will be redistributed, so as to ensure a proper stream of money and, above all, to be proportionate to the needs of these units, because we have previously identified the potential of these units of local government. You can't say that small communities need to be preferred... [[Ask me a question.]] [[Question time is one minute.]] I'm just finishing up... But it's you, Senator, running the meeting? Take it easy. [[Senator, don't help me drive.]] Exactly. [[At the same time, I would like to remind you that this question is a sentence ending with a question and is to last no more than a minute.]] I'm almost done. I'm asking a question, I'm putting the questioner. So how is it, Minister, that division clear or not? Question mark.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u241	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u242	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, you've mistaken two cases, namely European funds and funds... [[I have an opinion...]] No, no, wait a minute. ...which have voivodship funds under national funds. I talked about national resources all the time, I didn't refer to European funds. In that financial perspective, there were indeed so-called. Demarking lines, but I wouldn't want to go into those details. And as for what I said about criteria, I was talking about the criteria for having national funds, i.e. public tributes derived from environmental charges. These criteria have often been developed in a discretionary manner on the basis of: and on the basis of these criteria it will be possible to properly control the financial stream.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u243	Thank you very much. Senator Florek. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u244	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, then I will go back to the issue of public danins you spoke of. Art. 401 Laws: the revenue of the national fund and the voivodship funds are revenue from the fees for the use of the environment and administrative fines levied on the basis of the laws. So it's no mercy, because these public tributes are shared. The National Fund, even though... I'll give it to you on the example of my voivodship. There is a Pątnów power plant in the Wielkopolskie Voivodship. There's a chimney, and that chimney's smoking. And it's like the more smoke, the higher the charge. The other way around... We care about something else, but the bigger the loss of the environment, the higher the fees. The cost of using the environment is still higher. If it's smoking in this place, that means that some of these charges have to be in this place... Voivodeship funds are shared with national funds, and the idea is that some elements can be considered strategically throughout the country. And in different voivodships... That's what these voivodship funds are about. - directing the funds to the right place. You said there was a flood. I remember the flood from 2010, because I led actions in the Wielkopolska voivodship. And I remember very well the cooperation with the Regional Environmental Fund, financial support as well as later, intended for various purposes. Maybe this cooperation isn't that good everywhere. However, I do not see any flaws in the region's environmental funds. And there's no argument here about why you actually want to make this change and take over... The government wants full control of the voivodship funds. I just don't get it. Why don't you explain to me... It's also about the fees. But it's the other way around. This tribute is collected where the environment, I would say, needs to be improved and the use of the environment... That's where the fees are paid. So it's the other way around. I think it's more of a national fund's grace than... We must look at this regionally, and the region is taken care of by the Marshal of the Voivodship. There is a strategy, there are criteria, there are priorities, etc. I'm not gonna say it again. So... I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. I think that this is a task to be carried out at the level of the voivodship, that is, the task of the marshal, and the state is definitely taking it away from the local authorities at the moment. [[And the question?]] It's about the tributes. Is this supposed to stay?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u245	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u246	Thank you very much. I would like to stress that the rules of operation of voivodship environmental funds remain unchanged. Only the composition of the supervisory board changes. As far as resources are concerned, it is not that all the public danin funds will be taken to the national fund. The division as it is will remain. A vampire or a seismic will have some influence... But the voivode must also take care of the region. I don't see any contradictions about regional matters here. And if the Voivodeship fund in Poznan cared so well about flood cases, then it was only praise to him for that.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u247	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u248	Minister, I would like to repeat the question which you have probably heard, which funds are in the national fund and in local funds, including European money. What funds did the national fund and local funds have in 2016, including European money? I know that 2.5 billion here and 2.5 billion here. A billion there... What about European funds? Was that around $10 billion?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u249	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u250	I'll say it that way to tell the difference. These 2.5 billion and 2.5 billion we have been talking about here are national measures. On the other hand, with regard to European funds, unfortunately only 3 voivodship funds are institutions implementing regional operational programmes. In the previous financial perspective, they were all there. It means that even these regional funds have lost the trust of the marshals... And maybe that's why... Well, I don't know how it happened. But that's what the previous government did, unfortunately. I mean, if... What Mr. Senator said here about this division, about the so-called. the demarcation line, it would be very good to be involved in the fact that the national fund implements the issues of large agglomerations, and the voivodship is smaller, but at the moment it is only in 3 voivodships. As for the voivodship, I don't have any... I'm sorry, but I don't have any information at all. This would have to be seen first, what are all these regional operational programmes, what is the total amount. In addition, there is the Operational Programme of the Infrastructure and Environment. And this environmental programme implements the national fund as an implementing institution, the Ministry is an intermediate institution and the Ministry of Development is a managing authority. And there are actually so-called. allocation. This budget for the period 2014 to 2020 is likely to be I don't want to make a mistake here in numbers. I think about PLN 6 billion in terms of environment, i.e.... [[But globally, are you talking about POIi?]] I'm talking about POLY. This is about PLN 6 billion... [[More, 3 billion euros.]] 6 billion euros... no, because there's more... EUR 3.5 billion is spent on water and sewage management, water management, and nature conservation and waste are still taking place... So that's about EUR 6 billion. But how much money from European funds under regional operational programmes is there to protect the environment... I'm sorry, I can't answer that right now. As far as I can remember... I know, for example. the fact that, among other things, Voivodship fund in Olsztyn is an operator and that there they have about 200 million PLN allocated.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u251	You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u252	Minister, then I would like you to reply in writing. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Gajda: Of course I do, Mr...]] But just so we understand each other... I am not talking about the environmental money spent in the region or at national level, but about how much of this European money, in addition to these national funds, has been spent in the National Environmental Fund and how much has been spent in these 3 voivodships. Because I understand that these are three voivodships... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Gajda: Good.]] Okay? Yes? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Gajda: Good. Of course, Mr. Marshal, that's the kind of information we'll prepare in writing.]] [[Okay, I marked it. You're welcome to ask questions. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Please.]] Minister, I would also like to ask what were the situations that were wrong. But it is about these criminal situations, in the case of those funds which the voivodship funds and the national fund spent. You mentioned what happened 15 years ago in Łódź. But were there others in the last few years? I'm asking because I want to understand these changes, right these changes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u253	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u254	As far as I'm concerned, there were no criminal cases. Nevertheless, there are many things you can do without committing... according to the law. And now how it's done... [[Well, I'll ask you what things?]] Well... [[How many things? What specifics?]] I'm the one who's gonna say... [[Well, well, well. Name a few.]] Let me put it straight: where local governments ruled the same option as the Marshal's, there was a much larger stream of money directed there. And all this could be done according to the law. Check it out. It's also interesting that some kind of voivodship fund doesn't announce these things, which means they have something on their conscience, that is on their conscience in a moral sense, because I'm not talking about criminal matters. But besides crime, there are still certain moral principles and consciences.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u255	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Bonisławski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u256	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I was short, because the boat was pulled out... At the time, Minister, there was a deal that was the same option in the government and in the Seym, and I'm afraid that now it can happen again. That's when the SLD ruled. But by the way, it was the start of the fund, the seymist didn't really know how to resist certain phenomena. You said that 2 representatives would appoint Warsaw, 2 voivode. I do not know on what basis Warsaw is to designate people in the voivodship who are supposed to know each other better than those who are on the council today...Vojewóda also, very often the voivodships are from some political message, completely unfamiliar with the voivodship. We already had such examples in Łódź, our voivode did not even want to go to Barbórka in Bełchatów, afraid to expose the Silesian voivodeship, because she did not see that it was in the Łódź voivodeship... But that's by the way. Therefore, please tell us on what basis It is so formulated today that representatives of the voivodship are better than representatives of... Except for the fact that it's about to change, as my colleague said earlier, the political arrangement, because that's probably all it is, and the rest of it is such a hypocritical translation.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u257	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u258	I'm not saying that someone's better or worse, we don't recognize those criteria. As far as these central issues are concerned, it is clear that the representative of the Minister of the Environment as a person responsible for the environment is, in fact, from a delegation from the Ministry of the Environment, and as far as the representative is concerned, a national fund, it is about coordinating tasks with the national fund. And is a representative of the voivodeship, or is the marshal better? I'm not the judge of that.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u259	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u260	Mr Marshal, Minister, I have noted two questions about the Minister's statement here. The first sentence that the Minister said about this project was: the aim of this project is to improve the functioning of the Regional Environmental Fund. In two sentences, could you give me a closer look at what you meant in detail? Except, of course, the coordination between the voivodship and the national fund. Because you said you were improving. That's one thing. And secondly, you've had quite an emotional lecture on Polishness here. I would like to ask you if you could indicate the differences between a local government unit and a state organizational unit. [[About Polishness.]] About Polishness, of course. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Gajda: But what Polishness, excuse me?]] Polishness is one. Well, you said that... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Gajda: No...]] [[No, no, Mr. Senator, I don't think we understand each other.]] But no, Mr. Marshal, one more time. The Minister said that Polish local governments and Polish ministries are one Poland... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Gajda: No, this is different...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u261	Not in this context. But please, Minister, once again... the Minister, if I understood correctly, spoke about the fact that environmental funds are state and money derived from tributes and so on... [[No, no...]] [[Self-governments are state-owned, too.]] [[If that's okay with you...]] Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u262	Good. With regard to the improvement, this is primarily in the justification for the parliamentary submission of the continuity of action, not waiting for a member to be appointed. This is simply in the justification of the parliamentary project, which results in an improvement. Besides, I also justified coordination and so on, but I wouldn't want to prolong it any longer. About that second question... I was not talking about Polishness, I was talking about that both the local government and the government are state, and the regional environmental funds are state. [[That's right.]] And that's what I'm saying, that all the authorities are state, they're state authorities. The government is also state-owned... [[Voice from the room: It is not private.]] Well, it's not private... It's public... [[Mr. Marshal, can I still refer to this?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u263	Of course. You're welcome. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u264	The second question I will no longer ask, because in the last sentence, the Minister said how he understood it. I'll get back to the first question. Minister, let me ask you again: what exactly is the improvement, as you said, of the functioning of the voivodship environmental funds?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u265	That's what I've said a few times. First of all, it's in the explanatory memorandum. I can read the justification for the bill. The aim of the amendment is to reduce the operating costs of voivodship environmental funds and to simplify and speed up the procedures for the appointment of members of these bodies and, as a result, to improve their work. That's the excuse. And that depends, among other things. on the fact that all members will be quickly appointed In this respect, it is a very restrictive law which disciplines the individual bodies to appoint members and must appoint them within a certain period of time. The Management Board must be appointed within a certain period of time and the statutes must be adopted within a certain period of time. And that's what it's all about. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u266	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine. There you go. And then the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u267	Minister, you said, in answer to the question of Marshal Borusewicz, that, in fact, no acts of punishment were found, but that after party consideration... there was suspicion that party sympathies had decided to grant these measures. Tell me, will you now, after these changes, give the opponents a place in these new authorities? That's my first question. It's about political opponents, so there's no suspicion that you're doing it now. Same thing. And is such impartiality an example of what happened when environmental funds were granted to Father Rydzyk's foundation? Is this an example of this new impartiality? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Gajda: Thank you very much. It's okay, isn't it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u268	Of course. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u269	I'm gonna answer the second question maybe a little perversely. For eight years, Father Rydzyk's foundation or the university had no chance of getting any funding, and it met certain criteria... As far as I know, she didn't get... This is precisely what is required to establish uniform criteria for the financing of projects, uniform criteria, objective criteria. If these criteria are objective, such as they are now, among others. In the case of operational programmes, it will be possible to get Father Rydzyk, but perhaps Mr Palikot or someone else, if he is carrying out the right project. And that's what it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u270	Thank you, Minister. Senator Blackbay. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u271	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, just tell me if I understand correctly. I understood that one of the most important elements of the improvement of this law is the speed of the appointment of both the voivodship authorities and the national environmental fund, right? That's what I understand. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Gajda: Yes. Speed, too. Of course.]] Okay. And my question relates to the Minister's statement concerning entrepreneurs. I have a great interest in entrepreneurs for one simple reason: it is thanks to them that we are here, among others. we can discuss because someone works for the good of this country when it comes to direct apanasses and money that are produced in Poland. That's why I'm curious, because it might be worth publicising, the Minister's statement that a representative of entrepreneurs should not be taken into the supervisory board of a regional environmental fund, because it is a potential criminal who can use this knowledge for his activities. Is that the thesis you gave, your thesis, whether it's wider... That's first of all. And secondly, do you know such examples that this was the case? Because, of course, the thesis is built primarily on examples of situations that have taken place. Were there such situations that a representative of entrepreneurs working in one of the national or voivodship authorities... used his knowledge for evil purposes?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u272	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u273	Good. I have to say, I have an even greater attraction for entrepreneurs. For 20 years, I've been living by my own hands, by my own work, and especially for the last eight years, when the Platform and PSL have ruled. And I couldn't get... Even when I was winning tenders, they were voided. I'm sorry to bring up such a personal thread. So that I have no doubt about the entrepreneurs here. But you can see... What's the most valuable thing right now? Information. Information about what's going to happen. And if one of the operators receives such information earlier, he will be able to prepare for it better. And that's a preference for him. This isn't right. That's what I think. I'm absolutely in favour of entrepreneurs. But that doesn't mean they have to sit on supervisory boards. These are two different things. [[Mr. Marshal, if I may... because you haven't answered my question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u274	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u275	Minister, are you aware of such situations that in the regional environmental funds or in the national environmental fund, the business representative has somehow used such knowledge? Do you think that's a general view?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u276	That's the general view. Many such examples in the country... I'm not talking about voivodship funds, but I'm talking about somebody getting some information, like changes in some law, that there's gonna be some helmets... well, you know, what it's like. And he was preparing for it. Such examples could be multiplied. Or all kinds of devices. And it's better that there's no such business representative on the board. That's all. Doesn't mean it has to be somebody who's a thief or a dishonest person. But she will have knowledge.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u277	Thank you, Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u278	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, if you don't mind... In the previous perspective of 2007 and 2013, not all voivodship environmental and water management funds implemented environmental priority at regional level, because in some managing bodies it was the competence of the relevant departments within the structures of the Marshal's office. In part... But it was far more than in the current perspective, in the voivodship funds for environmental protection and water management. And in the first perspective, 2004-2006, the essence of the implementation system was still different, it was an integrated regional development operational programme, it was a completely centralised process. So we are implementing these environmental priorities. And at priority level 1 and 3 were by local governments of voivodships... So much for clarification. But I think, Minister... Answer me. Because we've been able to build a demarcation line in a perfect way, in my opinion. And the extent of the impact of environmental money at different levels, from the municipal level, basic level, including the smallest units, rural communities, including those of the senior self-government units... Many tasks have ended, as you know perfectly well, you mentioned this with success. And in my view, there's really nothing, Minister, that stands in the way of... And that's what happened in my judgment. I also had the pleasure of working on the Supervisory Board of the National Fund for the Protection of the Water Environment. And in my opinion, it was de facto... And it could continue to be done so as to build complementary programmes towards European measures that would strengthen the impact of European money. You mentioned, among other things. the LIFE+ programme. Nothing happened either, Minister, that today, at the level of the Ministry, the National Fund for the Protection of the Water Environment, of course, with the involvement of the voivodship funds, but in such a partnership way, build a similar program, perhaps with a different name, which smog issues would regulate. The question is, why didn't you go this way? That's one question. And the second, last question in this part, if you don't mind. I didn't finish the earlier story. I don't agree with the fact that Mr. Florek was a little bit moved by this thread. It cannot be that rural communities receive as much funding as the largest Polish agglomerations. You will admit that the level of air pollution, the presence of smog in Warsaw is diametrically different than in a small rural community, e.g. in the Białowieża Forest, where the environment is cleaner. The money must be transferred proportionally, first, to the level of environmental risks, second, to the size of the population of the part of the Polish country concerned. We can accept the vision that we will satisfy. I am a little abstracted from the theory. The needs of 700 local government units, the smallest rural communities in Poland, taking into account that these 700 local government units at the basic level live about 1 million people, or we will help the 12 or 13 largest... [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, are we at the stage of asking questions to the Minister? Mr. Marshal?]] What am I doing? [[Sir, Mr. Senator...]] What am I doing? Listen to me. [[You're five minutes away from asking a question.]] [[Mr. Senator...]] [[I know the marshal's driving, but...]] [[...I draw your attention. Not me, but for the second time...]] ...or help those biggest cities that... I'm off, Mr. Marshal. [[Ask me a question.]] ...there are 5 million citizens... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u279	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u280	Thank you very much. As for the senator's first question, I totally agree. This coordination, the interaction of the national fund and the voivodship funds, was lacking, because it was the previous government that decided so. As part of the creation of the Operational Programme, the infrastructure and the environment have really missed a lot of experience with many funds. As far as these programs are concerned, I agree with you. This change aims to better coordinate the work of voivodship funds and the national fund. About the other thing... I'm sorry, but this is a certain division of people in Poland into a better category and a worse category. [[But I didn't share...]] Should those who live in large cities be better off than those who live in smaller towns? [[Absolutely not the point.]] The problem of smog is as important in a small village as it is in a large village. You can't categorize. The fact that perhaps the financial effect per citizen will be in a large village, e.g. in Warsaw, a little better... If we were just looking at the financial effects, we could ask what the funds were for at all. The role of these funds is precisely to help improve the quality of the environment at different levels. And just as important are small towns. If we think otherwise, we're gonna lead these people just not gonna want to live in these little towns. And that's what's happening right now, because apart from unemployment... Contrary to appearances, it is not important whether you live in the Białowieża Forest or in Warsaw, since there is a lot of smoke next to the house. If we put smoke in this room here, we'd feel bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u281	Thank you. There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Gajda: Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide a written answer to a question asked by Senator Borusewicz. I'm opening a discussion. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u282	Please take the floor of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u283	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are dealing with a law which is a continuation of the actions initiated by the current Government of Law and Justice in order to deprive local governments of their powers. Regional government was deprived of agricultural advisory centres. Were these centers malfunctioning? No, they worked well, they were invested by the local government. And the decision, also statutory, was transferred to the voivodship, under the competence of the voivodship. Now we have a similar issue with the national fund, but above all with the voivodship environmental funds. Probably soon we will be investigating the removal of regional governments of the Voivodship centres of road traffic, i.e. WORDs. That's the whole thing. And I understand that the rule of law and justice is consistent here. But in this case the change concerns voivodship environmental funds, which for several years of work have shown that they are very much needed for municipalities, local institutions and this split of half, national environmental funds. The Voivodeship Environmental Protection Fund was the intended division, it was not a random division. Some things need to be done centrally. This applies, for example, to flood prevention cases, there must be centralised policies here, and there must be central investment. And there are other problems, such as air pollution, pollution of rivers, water. And the idea was that where these pollutants are generated, they also tried to fight these pollutants. Voivodship environmental funds have made a very strong contribution to changing the situation at local level. I go to Poland, I go to the Pomeranian Voivodeship. These regional places, local government, have changed precisely because there was activity of voivodship funds and they knew where to locate this money. Waterworks were built in the countryside, water treatment plants and the fact that you can fish in lakes and ponds, in various rivers, rivers Not in the Vistula, of course, because this type of river It's an extra-local issue. This is due to the activities of these voivodship funds, i.e. local activities. I repeat that these funds were deliberately divided into central and local ones, because some local pollution can be eliminated or prevented locally, when the local community sees what is happening. Why the amendment of this law? Why now to amend this law? Well, it's a cashier's fee. It's a cashier's fee and a job job, but most of all, it's a cashier's fee. The government is taking over at least a dozen billion zlotys. And what, according to what will he like to share it? You can predict that. Without any control, without any influence from the local community... After all, the voivode and the minister are representatives of the government. The Voyeur is not a representative of anyone else. He's a government representative, too. So the government is taking over all these resources. Will that improve the local situation? I'm sure you didn't. And why are you doing this jump right now? That's because next year there's gonna be self-government elections. Let's not kid ourselves, that's the point. I was surprised to hear your Deputy Minister, who is, apparently, from my voivodship and said that some funds were going according to political criteria. I know in Pomorskie voivodship the commune where PiS reaches 70% each time The votes, and that's where the funds went. And these few municipalities in the Kartuski county look like a picture. Well, that's what they look like, that's what the sidewalks look like. All these municipalities have treatment plants, they have measures, so I'm surprised by these suggestions. I understand why the PiS government is making this change, and I also understand why it is doing it now, but this is not a way to improve the functioning of Poland and which will change Poland for the better. It's a step back, it's taking the influence away from local communities, so I'm going to vote against this bill. This is a very bad bill. It is a law that destroys another element of self-government and limits the influence of the local community on what is happening in its surroundings.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u284	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u285	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It would seem that the discussion concerns a rather trivial, individual case, but the dispute that we are discussing here today is fundamental from the point of view of the Polish state's system, from the point of view of subsidiarity and from the point of view of the division of powers between government and local government. We are talking about the vision of the Polish state, we are talking about the division of competences, but we are also talking, please, about the effectiveness of the influence of public authorities both at central level and at regional, district or municipal level. This dispute, contrary to appearances, does not only concern the organisation of the functioning of voivodship funds for environmental protection and water management, but also the vision of the functioning of the Polish state. This dispute concerns the vision of the redistribution of public finances and their effectiveness. We must be aware that since 1990. In fact, longer than the changes of the Round Table, we are fighting this dispute in Poland and we are trying to take the path that will make the public sector as effective as possible. Therefore, our efforts for European integration were connected with the territorial organization of the Polish state. Therefore, in 1990 we established the local government, and on 5 June 1998 we set up 2 further levels of local government: the district level and the voivodship level. We felt that the establishment of further levels of local government would allow the subsidiarity principle to be implemented as effectively as possible. A principle that will enable the most effective implementation of the needs of the local community. So we agreed that these fundamental investments for the Polish state will be carried out by the central government and those important for the voivodship by the voivodship government. The county performs tasks that are important for a specific group of primary units of municipalities and the municipality performs those tasks that are closest to the citizen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have therefore agreed that the government conducts inter-regional policy, state policy towards voivodships, and voivodships conduct intra-regional policy, i.e. policies within voivodships. But in order to pursue a specific policy, on the one hand, we need to define the competences of these local authorities, and on the other hand, with the competences, we need to determine the amount of financial resources needed to implement these competences. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to statutory regulations, among others. to the Regional Government Act of 5 June 1998, and to recall one of the essential key articles of the Regional Government Act, namely Art. 12a. Art. 12a, ladies and gentlemen... I would like to mention another article, namely the article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. This article states that the local self-government carries out tasks of a voivodship character defined by laws, in particular tasks in the field of, first, public education, including higher education, second, promotion and health protection, thirdly, culture and the protection of monuments and monuments. But, please note, paragraph 8 is: "The voivodship's own government is carrying out environmental tasks. I draw your attention to this fact. We have agreed that, on the one hand, the local government has its own budget, its own financial resources, but on the other hand we are building complementarity with such entities as, for example, a voivodship environmental and water management fund, the financial resources of which are suitable for the own resources of the voivodship self-government, in order to effectively pursue policy in the field of In this case, we are discussing environmental protection. And we have to agree, sir. I apologize for the colloquialism. Only the Marshal of the region knows better than the Minister responsible for environmental matters, which investments are crucial when it comes to regulating environmental issues. I'll give you a cliché. We remember what happened before 1990. Excuse me, but it's difficult for the minister, for example. infrastructure determined which city street in one of the 2,5 thousand municipalities in Poland was to be renovated. How can he make a decision if he's never been to this town? This means that the division of competences is extremely important and important, even when it comes to spending public money, about the efficiency of spending public money, and it should be at heart for us sovereigns. A good example is what the Minister said. Namely, a certain order that we have achieved, starting from 1 May 2004 in terms of redistribution of European funds. The Minister was gracious to share with us examples of many extremely positive achievements of public administration, including local government administration in Poland. The same example was given in the case of funds from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and funds from the Regional Funds for Environmental Protection and Water Management. We have a kind of complementarity here. Important tasks from the state's point of view, those at central level, are carried out by the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and managed by this fund, and as such are funds from voivodship funds for environmental protection and water management. It is also important, I ask you, that the decision-making process be carried out at the right level. It is not only about the fact that representatives, decision-makers of voivodship funds for environmental protection and water management in some part come from the region, it is also important that these representatives are representative, by which I mean that they will represent various important environmental policy-making bodies, so that the decisions taken by the voivodship boards of environmental and water funds are as effective as possible from the point of view of these entities. The law that we are discussing, which raises so much controversy, naturally storms this system, which I have allowed myself to present, destroys a kind of balance. I agree with my esteemed previous speaker, Marshal Borusewicz: this is nothing else, please, as unfortunately a moneyjump. We need to think about what is the ambition of representatives of public life in Poland: efficient creation of state policies or participation in decision-making processes, or having the possibility of sharing funds, often, which I regret in the situation that you shape, at your discretion. During the discussion I also talked about the fact that this attack on voivodship funds for environmental protection and water management is completely unreasonable. If the Minister of the Environment were to cause concern for the environment, he would start the process of improving the current system in a diametrically different way, from shaping the relevant strategic documents, planning, rebuilding the appropriate criteria that would create a specific, quite rigid and tight framework for the functioning of voivodship environmental and water protection funds, such a framework that would ensure the coherence of policies conducted at voivodship level with policies shaped at national level, but in horizontal relations, the Marshals of voivodships as hosts of voivodships would shape and build some complementarity between the resources of the various territorial self-government units, their own means, European means and the means of voivodship's environmental and water protection funds, so as to effectively conduct this policy. Thank you for the moment, because my speaking time is almost up. Let me use my five minutes later. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u286	Thank you, Senator. I'd like the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u287	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are not many of us left at this time later, but I am glad that there are a few Senators from Law and Justice, and especially a colleague of Senator Andrzej Pajak, a man with a lot of experience of self-government. I would simply like to ask the people of Law and Justice, especially those who have experience in local governments, because these dirdimals, I apologize for the non-parliamental term that the Minister said... If I had done so at the meeting of the municipal council or district council, they would have chased me away with such arguments concerning the draft resolution of a given local government unit, which in this case concerns the draft law. If the argument behind this draft law is that environmental funds and their widely understood bodies need to be ventilated, and that the entrepreneurs who create environmental policy in the region must be deleted, because they can use this knowledge, then their hands will fall. And maybe it would be funny if it wasn't so tragic and so bad for Polish local governments. After all, the state is particularly interested in the law and justice colleagues who sign up for this project. In broad daylight, you are assassinating regional governments. I'm not gonna tell you what's happened here again. After all, it was the voivodship environmental funds that financed and co-financed various kinds of projects, thanks to which the quality of life of inhabitants, especially small towns, has improved. Environmental funds finance educational projects and a whole bunch of other projects. What do you want to do? Submit them to the smartest person in the Polish country, the Minister of the Environment. He's the one who's gonna decide what's good in commune X, and he's gonna make sure that sometimes some entrepreneur doesn't find out that they're gonna be doing plumbing there. I would like to say that the Minister of the Environment cut out our trees and starts cutting out local governments, starting by taking this money to the central budget. 'Cause you know this squad's gonna do what the minister tells him to do. That's what he's gonna say, not what he's gonna ask. If you believe in the success of the central authorities as the Law and Justice state and believe that this best reform, which has been carried out in Poland, is a self-government reform, you have to break down to put your people from the ministry level, then we have some examples. I mean, you don't want to tell us any more. We have asked many times about the criteria for those who will sit on the bodies of these funds. Well, there are no criteria. We know what the criteria are. There's a saying. I don't know if it's right that Bear bis will enter Polish local governments, and you're just starting to introduce them there. It is not only that you are taking money to implement environmental policy in every region, you are centralizing the decisions about the money that was supposed to serve the region, it is also to ask if there are any matters that the Minister can point out as examples that things have been bad... Well, you heard the Minister's answer. I simply did not suppose that an initiative limiting the functioning of Polish local governments would ever be considered in the Polish Parliament. Well, you didn't have to wait long. Just like you say, we're not leaving Eurocorp, we're changing our position in it, you're talking about not reducing the role of voivodship self-government. You put your people in there from the voivodeship and take money to the central budget, but by the way, you are behind the strong foundation of Polish self-government, which is the voivodship self-governments. And in the end you will probably be mistaken and you will say that you did not plan to leave the European Union, but on the same principle you will lead Poland to leave the Union. And these are the things I never expected. Because the fact that you're breaking the law, starting with the Constitutional Court, we're used to it. And what Senator Florek said in his speech I think he's gonna back it up. This is what you always need, colleagues, to repeat. Although it is a parliamentary project prepared without any great consultation, all opinions other than the opinion of the Union of Trade and Solidarity and Government are negative. And a government representative comes here and says it's a fantastic solution. It reduces competence, takes money, talks about things that are completely not reflected in current activity, and says that it is for the good of local governments. Therefore, please, as I said, in connection with the beginning of the Lent... Sometimes there are provisions to which I have encouraged you to decide that you will not break the law, that you will not trample on Polish democracy and you will not restrict Polish local governments. That is why I ask you to think deeply tonight about what you want to do with the regional environmental funds, because this act you want to completely reduce the support provided by the regional environmental fund together with the marshals of all voivodships for the activity of local governments in Poland. I'm asking you to. Think about it as a night's rest if it's not worth answering the question... Let us not weaken Polish local governments, let us not liquefy the foundation on which Poland stands. This is reform. We can argue and argue, but local government reform according to all indicators, in the opinion of the sovereign, as you say beautifully, is the reform which most successful in Poland, and you are starting the process of dismantling Polish local governments. And I hope that I will see such a situation that we will be restoring to Polish local governments soon, in two years' time, those competences that you will take away from them. I hope this happens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u288	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Piotr Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u289	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Regional Environmental and Water Management Fund as a local legal person will only remain by name. Tomorrow Law and Justice will take over the regional environmental funds. There's no doubt about that. Besides, the minister's gone because the decisions have already been made. In the soccer language, as I said, it can be said that when it comes to supervisory boards, it is a 4:1 government in relation to the local government. We can also say that now it's 8:4 and this is where we lead because at the moment there are 8 of us, and the 4 of us are no longer interested. [[Let's call a vote.]] The environmental fund is practically taken over. 96 persons 'Cause I'm subtracting 16, which is the vice-presidents that the marshal will appoint. In fact, 96 people, as I said in my speech, 64+32, will soon be appointed for one and a half months... It does not matter that the Marshal carries out environmental tasks, that he charges environmental fees, that fees are paid to the Fund in respect of penalties, that it should redistribute that this should remain in a given region, where we smoke... And like I said, we should... We have more money, which is why we should use it. But as far as the new supervisory boards and the board are concerned, they have specific tasks and they are listed in the Act. These are: adoption of action strategies, action plans, approval of lists of projects, annual plans. The Management Board is responsible for e.g.: Development of draft strategies for action... Not to mention subsidies, loans, guarantees, redemptions, etc., because at the moment it is just a government institution, there is nothing left to say about local government, because it is the government that will decide what the regional environmental funds will look like. This is definitely the acquisition by the government of voivodship environmental funds at the moment. And we can talk here, we can talk for a long time, but that's the facts. Those are the facts. You know who appoints the members of the supervisory board, why they are now 5 and not 7. This is related to the fact that you can shape the advice in such a way that it is 4:1 as we said. So this is actually the end of the operation of the voivodship environmental funds as they were. No doubt they have... We were celebrating, I remember, the 20th anniversary of the regional environmental funds. What are the environmental benefits in each region? Of course, you can always find that somebody didn't really use this money for the right purposes, etc., that the National Environmental Fund... We could probably talk about that in a minute, too, but we're not gonna point that out. Someone's always... Well, it could happen that somebody gets that money, and they shouldn't get it. But basically, the objective of the voivodship fund has been met. And the country... At this point, you can see that we're still going in the same direction, which is to centralize everything. And this is a feature of the socialist system, of course; I will no longer speak further, because I do not want to talk about totalitarianism, etc., because you could immediately say that I am going too far. But that's the thing about centralizing everything. Since 1990, since the changes that took place in Poland, we have tried to decentralise everything that goes And so it was with environmental funds. And you're still trying to centralize. Mr. Marshal has already mentioned what will be next. And I agree with what Mr. Marshal said you're about to come in with the next shift. And we already know what they're gonna be about. It's just a matter of time. So this process is still going on. Ladies and gentlemen, I can't add any more. You've just made a decision and you're gonna account for it. There's gonna be a moment when it's not just us. here we will settle, but there will also be an account of the direction that you are proposing and in which you are going. Because it's a little... It is not only a matter of the regional environmental fund, but it is also a political matter here, in this arrangement. Therefore, I am only sympathetic at the moment to the voivodship authorities who have so far actually tried to ensure that these funds are, so to speak, directed where assistance is needed. As far as EU funds are concerned, EU funds have been raised, distributed... Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, They were distributed. I am aware that it is probably not possible to centralize these voivodships now... What I said at the beginning today, that the national fund could make these branches in individual voivodships, and that would be fair if you did, because that would be clear. And right now it's the same thing, except it's under the name of a self-government legal person, which is not true. You should've made a national fund branch... I understand there must be obstacles to this. I think that this is about EU measures, which is why it cannot be done. You are therefore taking such action. Of course, nothing can be done here, nothing can be corrected in this bill, because this bill is fundamentally wrong. We have to vote against her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u290	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Waldemar Sługocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u291	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have to start polemically with my club friend, Mr. Leszek Czarnobaj, who is unfortunately no longer here, but I hope that he will at least relive my speech. Well, Mr. Nice Senator, I can't agree with you that once again Law and Justice is assassinating the local government in broad daylight. No, it's not. Tradition is being met: on a dark night, Law and Justice is once again attacking the democratic institutions of the rule of law. And I'd like to make that clear. It's 9:48 p.m., and even though we don't have windows here, I'm pretty sure it's a dark night outside. I'll continue my... [[On your behalf.]] Thank you very much, Senator. I didn't realize I was that good, but if that's what you think, then I'm not going to protest. I will continue my reflections on the assassination, on the centralization of the Law and Justice with the stubbornness of the maniac, which has not yet been encountered by any political forces operating in Poland since 1990. For the first time there is such a phrase in the policies that we conduct in Poland. I have a kind of déjà vu, although I am rather a middle-generation man and I was a relatively young man when there was real socialism in Poland. I don't know why there's such a longing and such a reckless return to what we've been through. Your leader, Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, was hailed a man of freedom, but I do not think that freedom existed in Poland until 1980. So how come you're back to what's already been done? Most of you know exactly what's been done. Some of you, like Marshal Borusewicz or Senator Bogdan Klich, fought to make things different. And since 1990 we have shaped Poland differently, drawing on the best standards from Western European countries. And today, all of a sudden, people of freedom are changing our reality, restricting civil liberties, restricting the functioning of the local government. Why? The sovereign at regional level has chosen the authorities. Authorities which are obliged In accordance with the Act that I have already invoked today, the Act of 5 June 1998. To develop specific policies, including environmental policies. How are they supposed to do this, if, of course, they are equipped with competences, they shape voivodship development strategies, appropriate plans, including environmental plans, water management plans, and, on the other hand, they will not have access to finance? The governors of the voivodships will not be interested at all to implement these strategies, because in 15 cases they are different from the marshals of the voivodships. And let me remind you that these strategies and plans are in line with government documents because they were consulted with the government. It was the government that issued approval for these documents, in many cases it made many important amendments. So I repeat my question: why this mistrust of central government towards local government, a government that is closer to human everyday affairs? [[And the answer to that question?]] The answer to this question is simple, Senator. [[Mr. Senator, don't argue, just...]] Jumping into cash and jumping into positions. We're sorry... I think my friends will forgive me... We regret the fact that this freedom is perceived in a radically different way from how we perceive it. And the desire to take over the public sphere, the positions, the money led to the fact that you were losing the state the most important thing in the public mission, namely the shaping of reality in such a way that it would serve all of us citizens, the sovereign. And at the level of the smallest local government units, municipalities, powiats as well as at the level of voivodships At each of these levels The Sovereign made his choice. Please remember the sovereign, because the sovereign in just over 2 years will once again make a choice and perhaps I hope so deeply This choice will verify your behaviour, your assassination, your greed in the public sphere. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u292	Thank you, Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would like to inform you that requests of character... Is there anyone else who wants to speak? I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Voices from the room: He's gone.]] [[He wanted to, but he couldn't wait.]] There's no representative in the courtroom, so I understand he doesn't want to. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. And now I'm gonna need some messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u293	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Messages. Meeting of the Health Commission on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act amending the Act on Public-funded healthcare provision, Senate printing No 455, will take place tomorrow, Thursday, at 8:00 in room No. 179. The meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance on the examination of applications submitted at the Thirty-eightth Senate meeting to the Act amending the excise duty Act, Senate printing No 441, will take place tomorrow, 30 March 2017, at 8.15 p.m. in room 182. Joint meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Legislative Commission on the examination of proposals for amending certain laws to facilitate the recovery of claims, Senate printing No 442, will take place tomorrow, 30 March 2017 at 8.30 a.m. in room 217. The meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media of the Communication on the examination of requests submitted to the Act on the National Celebration of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland will be held on 30 March 2017, i.e. Tomorrow, Thursday, 8:30 in room 176. The joint meeting of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act amending the Act. Environmental Law will be held tomorrow at 8.30 a.m. in room 182. A joint meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration and the Legislative Commission on the examination of the proposals for the amendment of the Act on the Code of Administrative Procedure and some other laws will take place tomorrow, 30 March, at 8.45 p.m. in room 217. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-29-senat-38-1.u294	Thank you, Senator Secretary. I declare a recess until tomorrow, which is Thursday, March 30th, until 9:00 p.m. [[Adjournment at the sitting at 21 minutes 57]]
