ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u1	Quiet and take your seats, please. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Gentlemen of the Senators, please take your seats. Quiet, please. I open the forty-second sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[Applause]] I appoint Senator Waldemar Sługocki and Senator Marek Pęk as the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Marek Pęk. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, Professor Zbigniew Brzeziński died on 27 May, former head of the National Security Council in the crew of President Jimmy Carter of the United States, one of the most influential political scientists and foreign policy strategists of the United States. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of Professor Brzezinski. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord.]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon him."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the Sejm at its forty-second meeting on 25 May 2017 adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Law on the Restitution of National Cultural Goods. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the thirty-eighth meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 39th and 40th Senate meetings, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to them, they will be adopted at the next meeting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. The draft agenda, which was sent electronically to the State, contained a law amending the Local Staff Act. This law has not been passed by the Sejm and will not be discussed by the Senate. I propose that points two, three, four and five of the draft agenda be considered, even though the Commission's reports on these laws have been submitted at a later date than specified in the Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. I can't see. Thank you. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Dear Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by the following items: the Law amending the Law on the legal protection of plant varieties and consider it as point five, after the amendment of the law on the financing of the common agricultural policy; the law on the amendment of the Law on marine fisheries and the review of it as point seven, after the amendment of the Act on agricultural tax, the Act on local taxes and charges and the Law on forestry tax. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. I don't see why not. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. Ladies and gentlemen, I inform you that the group of Senators of the Parliamentary Civic Platform Club on 16 May 2017 in accordance with Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, requested that the agenda be supplemented by a point: information from the Council of Ministers on the state of implementation of the National Roads Construction Programme for the years 2014 to 2023 (with a view to 2025). The Senate Marshal decided to include this item on the agenda of the sitting, which is scheduled after the holiday break. Do applicants still maintain their application? No. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? No. So I'm saying that the Senate... [[Voice from the Chamber: The question is whether anyone wants to speak on the order presented.]] Yeah, well, I asked... [[Voice from the room: But Senator Rulewski...]] Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? Mr. Senator Rulewski. You're welcome. I didn't see the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u2	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask the High House, and especially the Marshal, to complete the agenda, this sitting, for the eighth point, the second reading of the resolution of the Senators' Group requesting recognition of the election of Mr Donald Tusk as President of the European Commission. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Quiet, please.]] And serious, Mrs. Marshal. I explain that this need is due to the fact that it has not yet taken place in the work of the Senate, and I am participating in it for a third term, so that the resolution, which was introduced in February, has not yet been examined. No immediate or urgent mode was used that would correspond to the timing of the event that took place. I add that the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Legislative Committee have adopted the report and there are no formal obstacles for the High House to consider this at today's meeting. So, since there are no other circumstances, they have not been shown, please include them in point eight of this resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. Is the motion against it? You're welcome, Senator Dobrzyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Of course he's against it. But I also have two questions for the senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u5	But it's not a matter of... Mr. Senator, this is no time to ask questions... [[Okay, Mrs. Marshal, of course, if you can't...]] You're filing a motion against... [[Yeah, I'm definitely against it.]] I understand, okay. Ladies and gentlemen, we therefore proceed to the vote. There is a request from Senator Rulewski for this draft resolution to be put into session and there is a request against it. I'm calling a vote. Who among you is in favour of Senator Rulewski's request to extend the agenda? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 27 votes against, 53 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 1]] The senator's motion was therefore rejected. Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Marshal, on a formal matter.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u6	I would therefore like to say that this proposal is rejected once again, and I would like to ask how this case will be concluded, i.e. how the draft resolution tabled by the group of senators will be considered. [[This is not a formal conclusion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u7	Mr. Senator, this will be decided by the Marshal, so it is a matter of concern for you to discuss with the Marshal at the Senior Convention. [[Thank you very much.]] Ladies and gentlemen, today's proceedings will begin with the review of the point: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Public Road Act. The votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I would like to inform you that after a report on the draft resolution on the recognition of the merits of Professor Zbigniew Brzeziński for the Polish State is prepared by the Senate committee, the agenda will be supplemented by a second reading of this draft resolution. I would also like to inform you that tomorrow at 12.00 a half-hour break will be arranged for the opening of the exhibition "June "76." The life and activities of priest Roman Kotlarz. We're coming... [[Voice from the Chamber: Further information that the agenda has been approved.]] I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 40th second Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the Public Roads Act. I would like to remind you that this project has been submitted by the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and is included in print No 401 and the report of the committee is contained in print No 401 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Aleksander Pociej, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and be quiet. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am announcing a two-minute break so that you can take your seats and keep the room quiet. I'm sorry, Mr. Senator, but... [[Sure, sure, of course. I'm waiting.]] [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 11 to 11 minutes 13]] I'm reopening the session. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo! Today we will be dealing with an individual petition to amend one of the provisions of the Public Roads Act. The current provision in this law, which states that fees are charged on certain working days, has led to such a situation that some local authorities interpreted it in a way that allows charging on Saturdays, and some thought it was impossible on Saturdays. Against this background and in view of the controversy related to the different interpretations of the provisions of the Act, there have been several decisions by the administrative courts, which also That's what happened. They were divergent. The situation was explained in some way by the Supreme Administrative Court, which stated in its judgment in that case and interpreted the provisions of that law so that on Saturdays or Sundays parking fees cannot be imposed by the municipalities in the area to which they manage. In view of this situation, a petition was sent to the Senate, which the author had requested that the record of certain working days be converted into According to the author of this petition, this would solve the problem in such a way that local authorities could impose parking fees on Saturdays. Against the background of this petition, a rather complex discussion ensued in the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. I can say that this was a discussion over political divisions, a discussion about which direction we should actually go and whether there is even a need to bring this matter forward. After all, some argued, at the moment, after the ruling of the Supreme Administrative Court, we are already dealing with a situation in which, in fact, these charges cannot be imposed on Saturdays. Therefore, this would be merely a confirmation of the situation. The second part of the senators argued that there were still some discrepancies and that the matter should be clarified to the end. They proposed a provision which would undisputedly determine that these charges could not be imposed on Saturdays in any way. There was also a third trend in this discussion. Some claimed that it would be appropriate to go in a completely opposite direction, i.e. allow local governments to impose charges on Saturdays and Sundays as well. Well, of course, such a record is also possible. The case was referred to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration for consultation. This committee also stated that action should be taken on this petition. Consequently, this solution is proposed. This provision of the Public Road Act will read as follows: "The fee referred to in Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (1) shall be charged for stopping motor vehicles in a paid parking zone, at a designated location, on specified days except Saturdays and days recognised as being legally free of work, at specified hours or 24 hours. This is, of course, about Sundays and holidays. After an equally turbulent... Well, maybe not turbulent, because the deliberations were quiet. Following a complex discussion in the Legislative Committee, it was decided that this committee also recommended the High House to accept this provision. That's all I can tell you on behalf of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Alexander Pociej to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Borowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, you've read the new version of this rule and there's the wording of the rule at or around the clock. Of course, I don't see that line. Is that phrase at the end of the sentence? [[Half a sentence.]] Would you mind reading this one more time, Senator? [[Yeah, I can read it.]] I'll have that.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u11	The fee referred to in Article 1 shall be deemed to have been paid in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (1) shall be charged for the stopping of motor vehicles in a paid parking zone, at a designated place, on specified days, except Saturdays and days recognised as being legally free of work, at specified hours or 24 hours.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u12	Sure. Would it not now be such a doubt that the wording "on a certain time' or "on a 24-hour basis' applies to all the days of the week, including Saturdays and Sundays? I wonder if you should move this and put those words in the middle, i.e. all of them... I don't remember that phrase anymore, but it's about days... [[We'd just have to rewrite it.]] Rewrite it. [[In a designated place on certain days except Saturdays or holidays...]] [[Does the Senator rapporteur share this doubt?]] If there were certain days in certain hours or round-the-clock, and then apart from Saturdays and holidays, then we would have been judged.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u13	Mr. Senator, this entry was proposed by the Legislative Bureau. I would like to stress that the Ministry also forgot to say this, and it did not object or even approve of this solution. I can't... I'm reading it, and I don't see the problem, but it's very possible that the senator has been more insightful in the lyrics. I think it'd be worth it... Of course, the senator can make such an amendment. Maybe we could talk to the legislators right now. [[Sure.]] They're probably the most predisposed to answer that question right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u14	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u15	Thank you. Senator rapporteur, this regulation is based on a resolution of the Supreme Court, but the Supreme Court... [[The Supreme Administrative Court.]] The Supreme Administrative Court. But the Supreme Court has not determined the obligation to abolish or impose charges. Is it true, or is it just a derivative? Could there be other solutions here? That's the first question. And second question. Did the committee discuss the fact that this fee is not purely fiscal but also regulatory? The principle is that on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, citizens would have equal access to paid and in this case free parking. What happens if some people block the parking lot for 3 days, it can happen in extreme cases. For their private purposes, eliminating thousands of other users, e.g. In front of the train station?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u16	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u17	Mr. Senator, the answer to your first question is very simple. You can imagine a completely different solution to this problem. I spoke about it in my report. Which would exactly the opposite regulate... The committees went de facto in the opposite direction than the petitioner suggested. Because the petitioner wanted to solve this problem by changing the record, which would just allow the possibility of charging on Saturdays. That was the offer. Since most of the members of the committee were more inclined to do so, in which we extend the inability to charge these fees by Saturdays, we are de facto going in the direction in which the Supreme Administrative Court decided. But the Supreme Administrative Court did not in any way say that on Saturdays or Sundays at all, the legislator could not give the municipalities such an opportunity, but spoke against rules that were unclear. Therefore, most senators have decided to clarify these provisions so that it is clear that these charges cannot be charged on Saturdays. But there is absolutely no problem to solve this completely differently. The biggest reason that most senators didn't agree to such a solution was because it was And you were talking about it, and I think you were proposing it would completely change the situation that we have in the municipalities today. Because today, if the municipality, despite the interpretation of the Supreme Administrative Court, wishes to charge charges on Saturday and adopt such a resolution, the prosecutors are obliged to challenge this resolution as not in accordance with the rules. I think so. If I have understood the intentions of most senators That they went in that direction to at least explain the legal situation. Because a much more serious debate would be to answer the question whether the central legislature can limit What was de facto for many, many years The freedom of local government to impose these charges on Saturday and Sunday, or such a right, does not exist. And this, it seems If I understood correctly from this discussion, for most senators it was the argument that overwhelmed and simply caused the status quo to be called, that is, what is apparent from the judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court. But it is absolutely acceptable for the legislator to go in a completely different direction. Sorry, I forgot the second question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u18	Or in some cities Where there is the largest parking deficit and movement of the population, tourist traffic, e.g. in Warsaw and in big cities This provision will not block for up to 3 weeks the possibility of using parking only by those... [[For three days. Before that, the senator said three days.]] For three days, I'm sorry. In the extreme case when it is free Saturday, Sunday and the holiday day following it. [[Mr. Senator...]] Doesn't it block by, say, normal, natural behavior of other access... [[Mr. Senator...]] E.g. In front of the train stations.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u19	Wait a minute. Has the question been answered yet? [[Yeah, yeah.]] Yes? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u20	I can't tell you whether there's a blockage or not. But the argument... Because there were arguments from a few senators that we have the places you mentioned, which are from tourism and which, in connection with what you were talking about. That over the weekend, when there's an increased tide of tourists and yet there's no incentive to save... that it's going to be negative. But there was something to say, and such voices that maybe it will be the other way around, because sometimes the decision not to come is made because you have to pay. A horse with a row of those who decide it. And one last thing... I've already remembered that doubt of yours. Yeah, there's an argument that that's not a problem. just fiscal, but also organizational, and that gives the local government the opportunity not only to collect money, but also some regulation. As in all such solutions we are dealing with a collision of two interests, two values. The citizens will probably say to a large extent that we want to pay as little as possible, and the local government will say that I do not want this mess, and I also need money to be clean.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u21	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u22	Senator rapporteur, you are right to say that this problem is mainly in cities, in tourist cities. I don't think there's that problem on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday, but mostly on Saturday and Sunday. It should be considered whether the legislator should give more freedom to local governments so that they decide whether Saturday... [[The microphone's stopped working.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]] [[I'm sorry, I'm sorry...]] I'm sorry, maybe I'll move closer, 'cause I think I've been sitting too far... [[No, I turned it off by accident. Excuse me.]] Thank you very much. This initiative, which was in the Senate, is aimed at regulating what I think is actually already regulated. My question is this... As we were informed at the committee meeting, I think Sopot stopped charging in November, and Poznań, as I recall, stopped charging in February. My question is whether this law in the form proposed here makes any sense at all. Is there another city in Poland or a municipality that collects this charge on Saturday after the judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court? If you don't know, if it wasn't discussed, I don't think it was. I'm going to want to redirect this question to the Minister. The point is that perhaps there is no problem at the moment and a broader initiative should be taken on these Saturdays, especially as regards tourist cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u23	Mr. Senator, the arguments you mentioned actually appeared. I repeat, most of the committee And all three of them, because the legislative and local authorities, and human rights, went in that direction to sort out this legal uncertainty. And now, whether we do it or not... I always stand in the position that it is better to be clear in the bill than to wait for a complicated interpretation of the courts later. And there were various arguments of the courts. Two appellate courts, one in Opole, and the other I can't remember where they said different things about it. Only the Supreme Administrative Court has decided this. I have no doubt that the debate I was talking about earlier about the problem, whether to decide the head office, whether to decide the local government, is... He is actually the most important in the context of this initiative. Most of them went in that direction to tap it, and to be without Saturdays and Sundays... I mean, mostly without Saturdays, because on Sundays it was already no doubt.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u24	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, senator. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Kazimierz Smolinski: Yes.]] The Government represents the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, Mr Kazimierz Smolinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u25	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator rapporteur, Senator Pociej explained these legal aspects very precisely. Maybe I can present the actual situation as it is right now. At present, no municipality or city has introduced payments on Saturdays. Before the administrative court ruling, one of the last decisions, 5 cities had such charges, but it eliminated those fees after the court ruling, which dealt with it in connection with what the senator said was that there were doubts as to how to understand the existing rules, whether Saturday is a day off from work or not. At the moment, this provision is moving towards a clear definition of what days we can and cannot charge these fees. Of course, some of the local governments... At least three local governments have raised objections here. Well, if we consider that there are almost 400 district governments, county cities and more than 2 000 municipalities, the scope of charging, so far 5 cities and these 3 objections represent a small number against the entire territorial self-government. At the same time, in the Ministry of Development, as I would like to inform the High House, work is underway on the Public-Private Partnership Act. Among other things, it is considered there. Whether to introduce an urban parking zone, where there would be much higher charges, so that private car parks that operate could compete on the market with paid zones, especially in the urban area, but the work is also being carried out in a different direction, we are wondering whether we are really going to make some changes here, whether Saturday disable or introduce some zones, especially those tourist zones, or give the local authorities more power in this regard. This work is ongoing, and the Ministry of Development is taking care of it, and I think that there all the doubts that the High Senate has will be explained. From our point of view, the project is going in the right direction, so that the doubts that have been so far are clearly explained, so we support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u26	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u27	Minister, I agree with the fact that the legal problems are solved by this law, but it does not solve the problem of parking not only in tourist destinations, also as regards the access of motorized people, including patients, to public places, namely stations, hospitals, even offices, which are sometimes active on Saturdays, by the fact that it allows universal access and therefore the possibility of using it for purposes, uglylylylyly speaking, selfish. As a senator myself, I will benefit from this privilege in such a way that I will not use the private parking lot, but if I go to Parliament, I will leave my car in front of the train station in the free parking lot on these specified days for 3 days. Thus, hundreds of people will be prevented from parking, even for a few minutes, in order to purchase tickets, to accompany the person travelling by train, disabled, etc. Why does the government support such a solution? Second question. There's a hunger for parking. It would be best if there were as many parking lots as possible, very much and they had low prices. However, does the government not see the need to expand parking lots, which is to support municipalities in carrying out their duties towards their residents? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Kazimierz Smolinski: Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u28	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u29	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, as you said yourself, this is your individual decision to leave the vehicle for two or three days. If you don't need it, it'll be blocking. [[But this is a public place.]] I think no one will leave without the need of a vehicle, so it meets the needs of a particular person. Let me add that there are no significant signals, at least they do not reach the ministry, so that the problem is that there are no jobs on days off. These are individual or very accidental problems. But, as I said, the Ministry of Development is working to solve this problem, and I think that all the doubts that the senator is talking about will be taken into account in this revision of the Public-Private Partnership Act. We, too, will work with the Ministry of Development to solve this problem. This proposal, which is here, in the current legal state... Here may I say to Senator Borowski that to this legal condition which is, we add two words: "Saturdays and "and." It's the only change. In addition, the formation of sentences and the whole structure are preserved, they are the same as before. And so far, in practice, they have not raised any doubts, either in the application or in the legal judgement of the courts. There was no doubt about how to apply this provision. So I don't think you should change anything here, because you can ruin this recipe. He's good. Only doubts What was the point here? It's a question of whether Saturdays are work-free days or not. And what we are talking about here is, in my opinion, the correct explanation for not having these doubts. And any other change requires a really thorough debate and a thorough knowledge of the problem. And you can't change it like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u30	Thank you very much. Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u31	Thank you very much. Minister, my question concerns, a little in connection with this law, the issue of parking people with disabilities. Well, I have been told that we are often faced with a situation in which a given municipality grants some relief in terms of parking by people with disabilities, so that they do not have to pay fees when they park in designated places. But this only applies to those who are residents of a given municipality. And if a disabled person comes and wants to park in designated places, he's already got to pay that fee. And there are some doubts. I can't really settle this myself. If we are not dealing with a certain unconstitutionality of this provision, since one person who has powers may not pay, and the other person who also has powers must pay, because he is not from a given city. The question is, have you met with such cases? Do you record them? And if so, do you think it would be appropriate to react here or not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u32	Senator, there are no such signals, because the State, as a possible regulator of this market, does not regulate the level of these charges. We merely require that there be designated places for people with disabilities. But because someone is disabled, it does not seem that they should be relieved. After all, a disabled person can be a wealthy person, and a full - time person can be an impossible person. So I find this division inappropriate. But it is a duty to designate places for people with disabilities that must have appropriate parameters. And these requirements are met.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u33	Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u34	Minister, I have a question about a question which I believe requires regulation, namely the payment of an additional fee where the amount that has been paid is less than that which should be paid, e.g. When someone, let's say, puts a car somewhere, predicting that it would be there for an hour, and the car had to be there for three hours. There is a difference of practice in different cities. In Kraków, of course, municipal services rob people and make them pay 50 PLN if someone parked the car for a longer time than the one that was bought. On the other hand, Katowice is fairer because only a supplemental fee is required. So someone stood there for three hours and paid for an hour, that's just gonna pay for two hours. I believe that this should be regulated by the law. Because otherwise, there is evident injustice. Especially when it comes to people who come, for example. to the offices or courts, to fulfil its civic duty and e.g. I'd like to make a statement. Someone expects him to be there for an hour or two, just like this. In fact, it is appointed on the stand, and unfortunately the court is late and the person is there for 4 or 5 hours. Well, in return for that, it's not enough that he's wasting his time in court, he still has to pay 50 zlotys of punishment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u35	Thank you, Senator, for signaling the problem. He goes beyond what is being decided today. But, as I said, the Ministry of Development is working on a possible change. I'll also pass on this suggestion or the doubts that the senator has raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u36	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klein. Later, Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u37	Mr. Marshal, Minister, I have a question for you. We are trying to solve the problem that the Supreme Administrative Court has brought to the attention of this law. Doesn't it seem to the Minister that we are going a bit in the wrong direction? Wouldn't it be better if we gave the local authorities full freedom on how to organize parking? Because now we say that this change, this proposal will specify that on the weekend, Saturday and Sunday, there will be free parking spaces. However, there are problems in different municipalities, and these are different problems. And often thanks to such regulation, the introduction of parking fees on Sunday or Saturday, many problems could be solved and free parking could be introduced on the remaining days of the week. A classic example are tourist destinations, where most cars arrive on weekends and such a number of cars will disorganize the entire local market. So I think... My question is, shouldn't we give local governments full freedom in this matter? The idea is to make local governments say: we pay parking during the weekend, and on the remaining days of the week it is free to park, because then there is no problem with crowded cars. Does it not seem to you that we here, responding directly to the suggestions of the judgment, are going more and more to regulate something that should be a domain of the free operation of local governments?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u38	Senator, I repeat once again that this decision was intended only to clarify the provisions in connection with the decisions of the Supreme Administrative Court, and this was also the aim of the petition. And that's the only purpose... But that doesn't mean that you can't start work or analyze what you were talking about, because it requires a complete remodeling of the rule in the article. 13b. We can't solve the problems that the senator is talking about. As I said, the Ministry of Development is carrying out work aimed at establishing a special urban zone or exempting a certain area from Saturday-Sunday fees on the basis of a decision of the relevant local council. That's what the Ministry's working on. But this solution cannot be done. [[Mr. Marshal, I'll be more specific, because perhaps...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u39	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u40	My question was whether such a solution, which we are talking about, that local governments will have the freedom to organise the whole system of parking in the city, would not have consumed this decision by the administrative tribunal? Because we sometimes get into a situation where, as the Court points out to us the gap in one provision, we clarify this provision. Or maybe it would be a good idea at all to throw out all these laws and say that parking decisions are the domain of local governments and that local governments organise it at their own discretion. I am able to imagine that in one municipality there will be parking lots free of charge, and in the other they will be paid on one day or another, etc., which will be due to local specificities. E.g. In one municipality there are market days in some days and it is necessary to organize this parking somehow, in another municipality there are other important cyclical events, annual, when parking needs to be organized in some way, etc. And from the perspective of Warsaw we say that you can introduce fees for the whole week except Saturdays and Sundays. Actually, it's our decision, our proposal is de facto deepening the problem that arises, because we're limiting the freedom of government, and we're not solving problems that, for example. weekends may be in other municipalities. But as I say, the question was: if we had completely rejected, if we had not specifically regulated this provision, which the Minister mentioned here, would we not have carried out the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal? [[NSA.]] I'm sorry, NSA.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u41	Perhaps the senator is right, but, as I said, it is impossible, as part of a proposal that responds to a petition, to clarify these doubts, because the petition was based on practice and doubts... [[I do.]] The Senate is right to clarify this provision, and this is not a restriction, because this clarification is aimed at strengthening the practice that is currently taking place. The point is that there is no doubt that when parking is free in municipalities on Saturdays, it is consistent with the existing legal situation and it does not need to be settled through courts. So this issue is settled. [[I agree with that.]] Of course, like I said, we're working on it, and we're wondering if we can bring it in. Here's the change. Should we give total freedom to local governments, or should we introduce certain regulations? I think there should be some regulations. It is possible to transfer certain competences to local governments, but total freedom... We have signals that the decisions of local governments would be different. And yet we know such examples: we give our people seats, we don't give others seats. So there must be some statutory restrictions here, or there would be certain decisions that would be detrimental to the inhabitants and which could be unconstitutional. The legislator must define a framework, and if we go in this direction, details could be adopted by individual councils. As I said, this is the only solution that can be adopted today in this form. Either the Senate will accept it, or we will leave a state of uncertainty that exists in the current legal system.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u42	Thank you. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u43	Minister, in the light of your three-fold commitment or declaration that the government is working on some concept, you don't think... The first question is: when should a decision be expected, i.e. a draft law? And two: don't you think that, in this state of affairs, due to various doubts, the work on this petition, which has already been dressed as a t-shirt of the bill, should continue in the Senate?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u44	If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal... I can't answer when. Probably not so fast, because the revision of the Public-Private Partnership Act will be quite a big change, and this law will only be a fragment of wider decisions. We are not the authors of these changes. We're just going to consult with the Ministry of Development, so rather... well, I think we should settle this questionable legal situation as soon as possible. When will the Ministry of Development be able to prepare the project? I can't answer that because we're not the Ministry of Infrastructure authors of this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u45	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u46	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I know you as a local government lover, so I'm going to leave the bill for now. I would like to ask you about the future that Senator Rulewski also asked about here. Because it would be important for us to know... If you don't mind, I'm asking the Minister for information. If not now, after consulting the Ministry of Infrastructure When we can expect a draft law that will give freedom to create parking policy in individual municipalities. Because I agree that a certain framework needs to be defined, but as for the details, it should go in this That's the direction. And the second question is whether you, personally, as a minister who is not the author of this project, but who participates in the work on it, will be in favour of strengthening the role of local governments, or do you think In recent years, we have often seen such a view here. But the role of local governments is to implement the Sejm, the Senate and the Government, and not to create our own policies in the municipalities? It's about how you and your ministry feel about this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u47	Well, I can't present my private position here. I can present the position of the Ministry. I don't know what the state of work is. I can only find out in the Ministry of Development what is the envisaged period for amending the Public-Private Partnership Act, in which this issue is also to be resolved. As to whether we are limiting or increasing the powers of local governments, in this case this is the continuation of this long-standing policy. We neither reduce nor increase. This is what's been established in recent years, so nothing changes here. This is just a clarification that absolutely does not affect whether we increase or decrease the powers of local governments. [[I'm sorry. Can I ask you one more question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u48	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u49	Minister, this information I'm asking for would be very important to us, because if it's a very distant term For a variety of reasons I don't get into. We'll think about it, and we'll probably be preparing the Senate's initiative. Personally, however, I think that taking the senate initiative, when the prospect of a comprehensive law is drawn up, is a little pointless, and that is why this information would be valuable to us. If I may, I ask the Minister for such information in writing. That would be valuable to us.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u50	Well, I'll try to get that information from the Ministry of Development and pass it on to the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u51	Thank you very much. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u52	Mr Marshal, Minister, the petition was a consequence of the legal uncertainty that took place. The Supreme Administrative Court has spoken in this respect. The Lord has informed us that no municipality is currently charging charges on Saturday. So the question remains whether this regulation is actually unnecessary at the moment. If it does not concern any municipality, because there is no municipality in Poland that is currently charging these fees, the change in this provision will not cause anything. It seems to me that it was up to date at a certain time, but I do not think it makes sense to adopt such a resolution at the moment. It would make sense what you were just talking about to look at these changes more widely, especially in the context of the tourist communities, which would like to make the movement easier on Saturday. And perhaps we could then take the initiative of the Senate, but, as the Minister said, we will wait in that case whether it is worth taking this initiative or whether the Ministry will not fully regulate this case as well. So it seems to me that... Minister, all I meant was to determine what the point of this initiative is, since no community is charging these charges at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u53	If you don't mind... Mr. Senator, the municipalities have withdrawn, but they are waiting for a resolution; some are even ready to enter into a dispute with the court, adopt these resolutions and wait for a possible repeal. So we have signals that the municipalities are ready to start this kind of work. We want to clearly cut the uncertainty about whether it's worth getting into any disputes or not. The point is that the courts don't have to or the voivode doesn't have to repeal these resolutions. The municipalities will go to court to settle this, especially the coastal municipalities. I therefore believe that such a law should be adopted in order to remove this state of uncertainty. As I said, I will try to present the position of the Ministry of Development as soon as possible, tell you at what stage the work is at and when they may possibly have their finals in the form of a bill, so that the High House will have knowledge of this and may decide whether to start any work, take an initiative in this area or not.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u54	Thank you very much. I think it's exhausting the list of questions you've been asked. Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that a government representative has committed himself to answering in writing the questions asked by Senator Czarnobaj. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Rulewski. [[Oh, I was in third place. I understand you're using your preferences...]] Yeah, preference for the senator. To know each other.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Minister presented the situation in a rather factual manner, except for the fact that... He said that we were applying this law because it was already the case, and that the law was supposed to resolve legal doubts. Well, the situation has changed, Minister. It's been a few years since this law came into force. I'm not gonna tell you exactly how many cars have arrived, and the need for parking has increased not only for those people or institutions who, in a permanent way, would say repeatable use of them. I am particularly interested in the issue of parking places, parking spaces, which are designated by public authorities and which serve to meet the needs of public residents. I have already mentioned the stations here, and we must also mention hospitals as public places, offices to which the citizen is called. At least in large agglomerations, it is impossible to move or reach other means of transport based on other means than cars or other vehicles. And I think there is an obligation of authority to solve this problem. It is true that the deficit of parking spaces causes tension. It also causes damage. Namely, it's a fight. In particular in Warsaw I noticed this It is possible to park a vehicle or a single-track vehicle, but there are, for that reason, problems related to the destruction of pavements, urban greenery. I'm thinking about the cities that are close to me, where because of the lack of these parking lots, cars park in other places. In addition, of course, there are periodic, seasonal phenomena. Here we are talking about tourism, which in some places is permanent, as in mountain towns, and in some, like by the sea, is seasonal. But there are also needs for universal rights and obligations, e.g. On the feast of the dead. And it is good that the Minister announced work on solving the problem of parking in Poland. It is wrong that it is unable to specify the date of entry into force of the amendments. And that would cause that these works, which took place, among others. in the committee where I am, they would not be focused, they would not be limited only to securing the legal formula, but would solve practical problems. These practical problems are best solved by means of a surplus parking space rather than a deficit. I'm familiar with solutions, although these problems are nowhere in the world... It is common knowledge that the problem of parking in virtually any developed country is not solved to the end. But it can be partially resolved. E.g. in Sweden, parking in front of public authorities, especially those to whom a citizen is called, citizens, residents actually do not pay any day at all and do not pay at any time, but there is one condition: this stop, because that is what it is rather called, can not last more than an hour. This is a good solution, because if the office calls in matters concerning the office, not so much the citizen, but the office, it is good if the citizen does not bear the consequences. But in order not to create the phenomenon that this privilege is abused, it is of course a certain time, there are criminal sanctions, it is the control of this process, because that is just the need. In this situation, since there is no clear conviction of the High House, as the rapporteur said, by faithfully reciting the discussion in three joint committees, and as the Minister also said, who declares his willingness to work with the government on this problem, I propose that the draft law adopted by the 3 committees be supplemented by the report of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. I count on this to be a mitigant, disciplined government in expressing a clear position on the comprehensive solution to the issue of charging, granting above all rights to local government. There is no equal measure of self-government, as the law says. There are local governments where this problem doesn't exist at all, small towns where even the station doesn't have power or power, and if it does, it's just the governor. Or the Chief. But there are places, the capitals of voivodships, where this phenomenon is multiplied. So there's also a financial problem, both in terms of fees, where, where... The problem is whether the hospital to which the citizen is directed for research, the state hospital can charge any fee, even to reduce the crowd of the sick, or whether it can be regulated in some way or not. Or should these people be exempt at all? And there are also local governments for which my colleagues from the coast are fighting, where this phenomenon has a completely different dimension. Therefore, I believe that your suggestions for speeding up should meet with the work of the Senators in the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, so that this process can be calculated as to how this is to be done, both in time for nominal terms and for the expenditure of municipalities and budgets. Thank you. And that is the formal conclusion. Yes, Mr. Marshal? You heard me. This is a request to refer the project to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u56	I understand. Thank you very much. Senator Florek... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me, to the finance committee? Yes, Senator? [[Yeah, for the financials.]] To the finance committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u57	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The amendment of the Act concerns only one issue, which is unclear about parking on Saturday. This is what we have focused on in committee, and this is what we have here on the subject of the presentation. By the way, we are discussing wider, i.e. whether it is possible to regulate these matters top-down or not to give local authorities more competence in this matter, because, as my previous speaker said, there are municipalities which do not exercise this right at all, but there are also tourist communities which place great importance on it, so that it looks different in the various municipalities. However, this petition, which had been addressed to the Senate a few months ago, was intended to clarify whether Saturday was, like Sunday and the holiday, a day off and whether a parking fee should be charged or not. The point is that there were different judgments of the provincial administrative courts in this respect and there were some doubts. But the Supreme Administrative Court clearly stated this in its judgment, and for some time there was no longer a problem with it. I even know that there are municipalities that have appealed to the provincial administrative court, and after that sentence they have given up on it, because it wouldn't make any sense if there was already such a judgment and there is such an interpretation. Therefore, as the Minister said, today there is no municipality in Poland that would charge charges on Saturday. The Minister said it might be that some community... I don't think there'd be a few municipalities after those judgments that came to pass, and after the case became clear, there'd be a couple of municipalities that would stick to these toll collections. This is mostly about tourist communities, but, as I said, in Sopot in November it seems that in November it was finished to charge such fees, in Poznan. And this was probably the last place In February, parking fees were no longer charged on Saturday, so that at the moment there is no municipality that would charge such charges. So I think it's either worth going back to the committee, like a colleague here. he offered to take care of this change in the bill. The more the Senate initiative resulted from the petition And we can still take into account some of the things that were mentioned in the discussion, and for which it is certainly worth... Because I'm sure it's worth giving local governments more power. Self-governments in Poland are different, so we are not able to regulate on the scale of the country whether all local governments are to charge on Saturdays or not to charge them, especially since perhaps some people would give up the fees, for example. A week, and they'd like to download them on Saturday. After all, local governments are communes and residents, and here we have a problem which concerns the inhabitants themselves, so let them decide in the resolutions of the commune whether they should have these fees or not. Therefore, in my opinion, it is not worth regulating this in the manner proposed here. I think the bill we have here... If we do not make some adjustments, changes, it will actually turn out that we want to adopt a bill which, as I said, would not apply to anyone today. So why adopt a bill that wouldn't have any reschedule? If there were such a situation that... but I understand that this petition was filed a few months ago, so when there was not yet a judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court, in the meantime all that I said happened, so it makes no sense to adopt a bill that does not concern anyone. However, I am in favour of the matter being sent to the budget committee and so that we can propose other amendments to the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u58	Thank you very much, Senator. I don't have any more calls. For the record, the Szymański and Łuczak senators have made their speeches in the debate for the minutes. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Voice from the room: No, because I don't think there are any conclusions.]] Oh, no. As they were, Senator Rulewski filed a motion to refer the project to the finance and budget committee. Yes? [[Yes.]] Is there a voice of objection? [[I'm filing... a motion...]] The senator is making a motion... objection, and we will therefore have to pass this motion. I don't think there's a quorum right now. As a result, I am declaring a recess until 12.20. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 11 to 12 minutes 20]] I'm reopening the session. Please take your seats. Let me remind you that before the break, Senator Rulewski applied for a draft law to amend the Public Roads Act to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. There is also an objection, and we are voting on Senator Rulewski's motion. Who's in favour of Senator Rulewski's motion? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 55 senators voted, 16 were in favour of Senator Rulewski's request, 37 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 2]] I conclude that the claim was rejected. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the review of the item on the first agenda: the Act amending the Act on Pension Supply to Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, Government Security Office, State Fire and Prison Service and their families and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 506, and the Commission's reports In the forms Nos 506 A and 506 B. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I would like to welcome the representatives of the legislative initiative committee present at the meeting with Mr Sławomir Greywa at the head. Welcome. [[Applause]] I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 11 May 2017 amending the Act on Pension Provision of Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, Government Security Office, State Fire and Prison Service and some other laws. The Commission debated the Act on 23 May and asks for the support of the attached draft resolution. The amendment adopted by the Sejm on 11 May 2017 of the Act of 18 February 1994, hereinafter referred to as the Act on Pension Provision of Officers of Uniform Services, extends its scope. It shall also include existing Customs officers and Customs and Carbug officials. The amendment of 11 May 2017 was made in connection with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 3 March 2015 in the signature of Act K 39/13. The constitutional problem in question was the compatibility of the provisions of the Act on pension provision of uniformed officers to the extent that among pension holders they ignore customs officers, with the principle of equality in law and non-discrimination. The judgment was based on the provisions in force before 1 March 2017 of the Customs Service Act of 27 August 2009. The Constitutional Tribunal found non-compliance with the Constitution of the Act on Pension Supply to Uniform Service Officers to the extent that among persons entitled to pension benefits it omits Customs Officers who carry out the tasks set out in Article. 2 (2) Point 1 of the Customs Service Act of 27 August 2009. The tasks performed by Customs officers were to identify, detect, prevent and combat certain offences and offences, as well as the tasks of the police officers referred to in Article. 1 paragraph 1 points 3 and 4 of the Police Act, which, among others, initiate and organise actions to prevent and prosecute criminal offences and criminal offences and to cooperate with public authorities, local authorities and social organisations in this respect, as well as to detect and prosecute crimes and offences. The Court found that customs officers directly identifying, detecting, preventing and combating certain types of offences and offences carried out tasks similar to the statutory tasks of police officers. The similarity of the tasks performed translates into the extent of the activities actually undertaken and the degree of exposure to life and health. The Act takes into account changes in the legal status introduced on 1 March 2017, i.e. entry in force of the Act of 16 November 2016 on National Tax Administration and the establishment of the Customs and Treasury Service, whose officers, like Customs officers, were not covered by pension provision but remained in the system of universal social security. The Act grants entitlement to a police pension and other powers provided for in the Act on pension provision of uniformed servants also to officers covered by the Act of 24 July 1999 on the Customs Service and the Act of 27 August 2009 on the Customs Service. In the case of Customs or Customs officials, an additional condition of 55 years of service and at least 5 years of service in the performance of police duties was adopted, i.e. indicated in the operative part of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal or in the Customs and Customs Service. Customs officers or Customs and Treasury officers who, on the day of their release from the service, conversion or termination of the service relationship, have completed 15 years of service, including at least 5 years of service in the performance of police duties but have not reached 55 years of age, acquire the right to a pension at the date of that age regardless of the reason for their release from the service. The Act also contains provisions on the calculation of the amount of the police pension and the rules on its growth, adapting it to the rules laid down in the regulations for uniformed services. This is to take account of the temporary cesarea provided for in the service for the first time before or after 31 December 2012 and the consequences for pension rights. In addition, the Act provides for 40% cash benefit for customs officers exempt from the service the average salary paid, for a period of up to 12 months, from the month in which the application for a police pension was lodged until the month preceding the month in which the pension was paid. The draft law contained in Sejm No. 30 entered the Sejm on 28 August 2015. It was a citizens' legislative initiative. The first reading of the project took place at the third meeting of the Sejm on 2 December 2015 and was then addressed to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social and Family Policy. This proposal has become a starting point for legislative work related to the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 3 March 2015. The Council of Ministers welcomed the efforts of citizens' applicants in the draft law to develop legislative solutions for the implementation of the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment. In the view of the Government, the scope of pension rights for Customs officers proposed in the citizens' project was too far-reaching and went beyond the scope of the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment, since the project assumed that all Customs officers would be covered by the law on pension provision of uniformed service officers. The abovementioned Sejm committees submitted a report in print No 1521. The committees have proposed the adoption of a draft law which extends the subject-matter circle covered by the Act on Pension Provision of Uniform Service Officers to Customs Officers, empowering them to a police pension, as well as certain officers subject to the Customs Service Act of 24 July 1999 and the Customs Service Act of 27 August 2009. In addition to 15 years of service, customs or customs officers have been required to complete 55 years of service and to serve for at least 5 years in the performance of police duties, i.e. indicated in the operative part of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, or the customs and customs service. Amendments were tabled during the second reading, which took place at the 40th first session of the Sejm. They concerned an extension of the scope of the pension rights of uniformed services, and they also assumed a departure from the need for a customs officer to fulfil a total of 2 conditions: age and internship of service, and the acquisition of entitlement to a police pension after 15 years of service regardless of age. The committees recommended that the Sejm reject all amendments. The Sejm rejected all the amendments and adopted the law at its forty-first meeting: 425 Members voted in favour, 1 against, no one abstained. Customs representatives took the floor during the committee's deliberations, inter alia. members of the Celnica.pl union. After this discussion, the committee recommends to the High Senate that the attached draft resolution be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u60	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u61	Thank you, Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Minister! I was honored to report on the meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance on the Act adopted by the Sejm amending the Act on Pension Supply of Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guards, Government Protection Office, State Fire and Prison Service and their families and some other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance was held on 26 May 2017. During the meeting, a motion for adoption of the law was made without amendment. He received 100 percent support from the members of the committee, four members of the committee were in favour. And such a draft resolution shall be submitted by the committee to the proceedings of the High Senate. Ladies and gentlemen, in principle, as regards the matter contained in the Act, my previous speaker, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, as rapporteur of the Social Policy Committee, discussed this law in a comprehensive and exhaustive manner. Regarding the very course of the meeting of the budget committee, Minister Paweł Cybulski was present at the meeting, and the ministry was represented by the director of the Barbara Smolinska department. The meeting was attended by representatives of customs and customs officers. There was, of course, a representative of the citizens' initiative group, Mr Andrzej Siwa. With regard to the proceedings of the committee, it must be pointed out that there are interpretational differences in the content of the project, may not be as much content as to the statement in the judgment, in the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal... as to the need to implement the principle of non-discrimination of customs officers. The judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which was indicated during the committee's meeting, is a matter of scope and is essentially based on a single role. The Court did not identify the extent of the necessary changes, so the representatives of the Ministry during the parliamentary work, as well as the parliamentary majority, the overwhelming parliamentary majority, did not support the citizens' initiative project. This project has become a starting point for work, as Senator Elephant pointed out, and the regulations proposed in the citizens' project have been too broad and out of scope as a result of the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment. With regard to the observations made by the Senate Legislative Office on the bill, I would say that 3 comments were submitted, which were only of a technical nature. Other comments from the Legislative Bureau did not indicate. About the committee meeting... One novelty in the Senate is the impact assessment of regulation. I would like to point out here that, according to the estimates presented in this analysis, the bill will cover around 1671 people in the form submitted to the Senate, i.e. without taking into account the amendments. Amendments that have been tabled... Very broad correspondence was received before the meeting of the budget committee. These were requests for amendments by trade unions, as well as individual departments, customs officials. This was partly discussed because some amendments simply repeated in this correspondence which was addressed to the chairman of the budget committee. As I pointed out earlier, 1671 people will be eligible according to the Ministry's estimates. The introduction of amendments would increase the number of eligible up to 10 000 according to estimates provided by the Ministry. As regards the costs of implementing this law, costs are at 404 million per year in the first year of implementation of the law; in the following years this amount will increase and in the tenth year of application will be a maximum of 546 million. In total, over a period of 10 years, it will amount to 4 billion 745 million. These calculations or analyses were in some way denied and challenged by incoming Customs officers, they were said to be overestimated, so to speak. On the other hand, the Legislative Office and the Ministry argued that such a way of estimating this is necessary, because it is a very prudent approach and a pessimistic option must be taken into account. You can't say that, you can't underestimate something, and you can't provide the sources of funding necessary to implement the provisions of the law. As I mentioned at the outset, with regard to the judgment itself, there was a broad discussion on the content of the judgment and on what the Court imposed on the legislator, which obligation. This law is unique because it is the first law in the Polish Parliament, which is a citizens' initiative, which has passed the full seym path and has gone to the Senate. So that's, you could say, kind of a historic moment. For the first time, we are leaning towards a citizens' initiative that has been accepted by the House of Parliament. The amendment to the bill was actually several dozens, but they did not receive approval from the Ministry of Finance due to the lack of sources of funding... Maybe there's not a lack of funding, but... The point is that, as I say, the cost of implementing this law is increased in a stepwise manner. As far as the content of the bill is concerned, it has the most positive dimension. Customs officers were indeed discriminated against at the level of the officers' pension supply. This service was not included in this provision, and now it is the twelfth service that will receive adequate supplies under the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u62	Thank you very much. Right now... [[Mr. Marshal...]] You have a question, right? [[No. I'd like to be the chairman of the committee...]] Senator Bierecki. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u63	As chairman of the Committee on Budget and Finance, I am the High Senate responsible for the correction of the impact assessment of the regulation which I received yesterday at 11.39 p.m., i.e. after the end of the committee meeting. The Senator submitted the information fairly using the OSR data that was available at the meeting. I would like to inform the senators that there is a new OSR document available, which appeared yesterday at 11.39 a.m. He substantially changes the figures the committee had at its meeting. I'll give you some new data. The expected increase in the number of customs officers who will be able to obtain a police pension is an increase of up to 8,000 217 people. An additional increase in the expenditure of the public finance sector will amount to a maximum of PLN 226 million 800 000 per year, resulting in a projected total increase in expenditure of PLN 2 billion 659 million over a period of 10 years. At the committee meeting we had an OSR, which talked about an increase in spending of over 4 billion. There is a significant difference here, so I allowed myself in this procedure to inform the High Senate of the correction of the calculations used by the committee during the sitting.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u64	Thank you, Mr President. [[Thank you very much.]] At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u65	Senator rapporteur, you mentioned that this is the implementation of the proposals contained in the legislative initiative. In addition to financial considerations, what is justified by the introduction of new conditions in terms of traineeships and age, which will decide on granting a service of a character, let's call it police? I ask, because this difference exactly contradicts the very essence of the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment, which was about equalizing powers. Why was this done?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u66	Thank you. Mr. Senator, about the justification... The draft submitted to the Senate has been voted out, which is very important, above the party divisions by basically everyone present in the Chamber of Members. The only Member who was against the law, after the sitting, admitted that he was simply wrong. The bill that went to the Senate is a result of the work of the Sejm Committee. In fact, the work was started by a specially established sub-committee of the Sejm, which was proceeding on this bill. And that's the effect of this committee's work. At the meeting of the Committee on the Budget, during the discussions which were called up by the representatives of customs officers in connection with the amendments tabled, which actually increased the number of authorised officers, the Ministry justified the impossibility of introducing these amendments with the necessary financial resources to provide for sources of funding in connection with the extension of the group of entitled persons. Because such sources of funding are necessary. As regards the introduction of the age criterion, the requirement to be 55 years old and the requirement to have at least five years of police experience, this was not specifically justified at the committee meeting. There wasn't really a question about this matter, about this subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u67	Thank you very much. If there isn't... Oh, Senator Komarnicki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u68	I'd like to ask you a question that you just asked the senator to extend a little. Because I'm concerned about a fact. We, as the Senate Chamber, should always think about what hurts individual people in particular competitions. I personally met with Customs, talked to them, huge... Customs... I'm talking about the Western border here. Why did he need a citizen's project to make this case final? In the case of other services, an unknown indication of retirement age has been introduced into the civil project, i.e. 55 years for officials adopted before 1 January 2013. And in any other uniform formation there is no indication of the age of the officers at all, there is only reason to reach 15 years of service. This is inappropriate because the Constitutional Tribunal in the operative part stated that such officers are discriminated against, precisely because they are not in the provisioning pension system, what I am saying now is very important. It is therefore not possible to refer to the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, while adding an additional condition for the attainment of the age of 55. The condition I remind you of is not in any other uniform service. There is also a requirement unknown in other uniform services to perform certain tasks as a condition for the acquisition of pension rights, while, according to the Customs Service Act, I recall, it is a uniform service, i.e. an indivisible uniformed formation. Officers shall not be divided by type of tasks performed. I would like to remind you that the specifics of the service do not allow them to do so, because they are professionally available and their tasks and the place where they perform their duties change during the service many times, even several times in the career of an officer. Isn't it worth it, Senator rapporteur, to get back to the issue of these disadvantages? I say this from an autopsy, after talking to people who are waiting for the Senate to act on this group. Thank you so much for your attention. [[He'll behave properly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u69	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u70	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, when it comes to the dispute or the problem that occurred during the committee's proceedings over this bill, I have already invoked it here. This is a question of interpretation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. The representatives of Customs and Customs officials are of the opinion that the law adopted by the Sejm does not implement the operative part of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. On the other hand, government officials, as I say, indicate that this is a range judgment. I can read the ruling if you want, Senator, but I think you know the ruling. [[I know them, Mr. Senator.]] This is, as I say, the question of interpretation of judgment. The legislator, who was, as it were, leading this bill in the Senate, pointed out precisely that we would not settle this case in this way. The government's position is that the government had the right... In fact, parliamentarians had the right to adopt this type of regulation as regards the fulfilment of the criteria for safeguarding the pension of officials. As for the Customs officers themselves... As I recall, there were about 15,000, over 15,000 officers here. In extreme cases, if all the proposed amendments were adopted, the officers who could retire would be around 8 or 9,000. I can't remember now. I am not convinced that all Customs and Customs officials carry out the tasks referred to by the Constitutional Tribunal. The Court has made it clear that this refers to officers performing police tasks. It's just that. These officers, in the judgment of the Constitutional Court, are somehow discriminated against. I'm talking about clarity. It's not like you, Senator, that all Customs and Customs officials are involved. It's about those who do police work. I don't know if that's enough for you. [[Thank you very much. However, I have the impression that we will certainly go back to this bill once in a while.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u71	Thank you very much. The bill was filed by... [[Mr Marshal, I have another question for the rapporteur's colleague.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u72	If you don't mind, I'm gonna ask the rapporteur of the finance committee. During the deliberations of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, representatives of the party requesting the adoption of the project, representatives of the citizens' initiative and representatives of the customs union stressed that, despite the comments they have and the fact that they do not agree on certain issues, they are very satisfied with the results of the Parliament's work, the work in extraordinary committees, and the fact that the law will finally see daylight. Were such positive comments also made during your committee's deliberations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u73	Thank you. Senator rapporteur, as at the meeting of the Social Policy Committee, representatives of Customs and Customs officials have claimed from us that they express their satisfaction with the bill, because after so many years of discrimination, as the Constitutional Tribunal has clearly demonstrated in its ruling, they are finally covered by a specific pension supply system. Of course, as I pointed out here earlier, the amendments trying to restore the original version of the project that had been introduced into the Sejm as a citizen's initiative... The officers' representatives tried to gain acceptance in this matter, but the argument... I think that the Ministry representative will repeat what was said at the committee meetings. The argument of the Ministry of Finance was that, mainly for reasons relating to the protection of funds for the implementation of the law, these amendments are unacceptable by the government party. Thank you. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u74	Thank you very much. The bill was introduced by the citizens. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Marian Banaś: Yes.]] You're welcome. The government represents the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Marian Banaś.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law and Justice Government immediately leaned on this civic project and from the very beginning we were in favour of fulfilling the demands that were put forward in the project. However, we could not fully agree with the provisions that were in this civil project, because in this case the judgment of the Constitutional Court was delivered and the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal was binding on us here, and we wanted to implement this decision first of all. The judgment clearly indicated Article. 2 (2) Point 1 of the Customs Service Act and that pension rights should be covered by those officers who carried out police duties. So we just can't talk about all the officers here, as it was claimed by some trade union activists. And that was a fundamental argument. Because if this dispute had not been reached, my lords, High Izbo, this law would have already been passed. The dispute went so far that it was actually also the reason for the protests that took place in June 2016, when 4.5 thousand officers protested, went to medical dismissals, threatening the security of the state, because we had 2 great world events, World Youth Days and NATO Summit And we were also at risk of terrorism. After all, we know that a few months earlier there was a terrorist attack in France and not only, so it was a real threat. And yet they went so far as to put pressure on the government to compromise... Not that he compromises, but that he properly completes all his demands and covers all the officers. Unfortunately, we are simply a responsible government, a responsible ministry, and we are acting in accordance with the rules of law. We didn't bend. The border has been secured as well as the duties have been properly carried out. And we have indeed taken further steps to ensure that these demands are met. Tonight we're actually on the finish line. We simply follow these demands. In fact, the other officers are pretty happy about it, too. The compromise has been concluded. There was a discussion in the Sejm, in committee meetings and in plenary, everyone accepted it and today there is a kind of compromise. And this law can also be passed without amendments by the Senate, as we call for as a government of law and justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u76	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine. [[I've been here before.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u77	Minister, you were talking about compromise. We didn't see it at the committee meeting. The representatives of the customs officers have expressed doubts, and I would like to ask the Minister about them. First, however, I would like to ask whether the law and justice in 2015 supported the citizens' initiative project without reservation, or whether it seemed to me. That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to ask, Minister, if you believe that the realization departments and tax intelligence, as well as the preparatory services, are the people who carried out police activities. Because we've even been given evidence of how these officers work, how they're equipped, how they're taking action. I admit that to me, as a layman, it looked like a strict police action, which is very similar to the ones that take up uniformed services. I would ask you to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u78	Mr. Senator, I would like to say that the citizens' project is about officers, as is the Constitutional Tribunal. And in the case of that part of the staff you're talking about... They weren't officers. They were employees of the IRS. And here we have a legal obstacle to embrace them... [[Obstacle?]] We've been talking about officers from the very beginning, and the Constitutional Tribunal has, too. As I have already said, we stick closely to the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u79	Are there any more questions? [[I volunteered.]] Of course, yes. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u80	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'm continuing with Senator Augustine's question. It is important, however, that these officials, so to speak, were acting as officers. What group of people are we talking about? What financial means, however, would be involved if they were considered officers? Because it's important whether it's a large group of people, whether it's big money, etc.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u81	It's a big group because it's about almost 400 intelligence personnel. If they had been turned on, they would have received these powers, the costs would have increased considerably. We absolutely didn't anticipate... Such options were not considered at all because they are not officers. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u82	Are there any more questions from the senators? If not, thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn will be the first in the discussion. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u83	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I represent the group that has undertaken... to support the continuation of the reform initiated by the AWS government on the pension system. And I do not believe that the issue of pension privileges has always aroused great emotions, including in this Chamber, whenever we have touched this system. For years we have been in a dispute with customs officers who have demanded powers similar to those of the uniformed service, while many of my group's parliamentarians wanted to return to the sources of this pension reform, which equalized all citizens and incorporated, incorporated the entire supply system of uniformed services into the general Zusovsky system. I'm talking about being from A to being honest. For some of you, it's not the first time I've looked into the eyes of this speaker. Not only this time, as the Minister says, but also before, they have actually protested, they have also been on strike. Because since, as I say, police officers have been returned to uniformed services, there has been a question, a constitutional question as to the equal treatment of other services of a similar nature. Finally, the matter ended at the Constitutional Court in favour of your judgment. In 2015, you could say that the Court granted you the right. And it must be said that the determination of this environment is a matter of respect, because the state was instantly able to prepare a citizens' project and give the matter a run, putting it in Parliament. All those who are attached to living in a state of law have the right to say now: it works. The multi-annual dispute has managed to bring democratic procedures closer to the outcome and the possibilities for citizens to act have been fully exploited by those who have defended their rights. Indeed, we would be fully satisfied if we could say today that this draft initiative, this citizens' project, was adopted in the way that you proposed it. Unfortunately, it has happened differently, which has already sounded in the questions. Satisfaction is not complete, because some workers who do not have the status of officers but serve in the implementation departments and in the tax intelligence, unfortunately, have not been covered by this law. And, of course, it is not so, Minister, that the ruling of the Constitutional Court would prevent workers from getting out of this situation for the benefit of the workers. For this there are many rulings of the Court, there are many examples that people can do better. This question was so formulated that it actually covered this article, which referred to officers, but when you read this sentence when you read its justification, it shows that the Court was, however, about equalizing in the powers of officers or persons from the Customs Service who perform police activities. This, of course, applies not only to officers, as the Minister probably knows well, but also to employees in these special cells that I have already mentioned. This case came out during the debate. There was a protest. Nevertheless, the Parliament's amendments, also tabled by the Civic Platform, were not accepted. I don't think that's right. Because it is possible to argue whether the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal was executed, and as far as the letter is concerned, Minister, it can be defended, but as far as the substance is concerned, I dare say that it has not been executed. I am even convinced that if we had a Constitutional Tribunal in Poland, which inspires confidence as regards impartiality, and if this law were challenged, the Constitutional Tribunal would once again acknowledge the merits of the case. It may be necessary to try this way, but I fear that only to find out that it is already another Court and another situation. Although it's probably worth checking out. Do we have to do this? No. Both in the Sejm and here in a moment will be an opportunity to make amendments which would clearly resolve these issues. It seems that a group of 400 officers is not big enough and the difference in calculations Which, as you can see, are very shaky, because in terms of numbers it turned out to be bigger, and as for the sum, even though the number is larger, they are smaller, if memory doesn't confuse me... I'm just comparing what the Senator rapporteur said with what the Senator President said. In any case, it seems that these financial considerations are not sufficient reason to refuse to accept arguments which, I think, are undisputed. That is why we are revisiting amendments. And I'm counting on you, Minister, to reflect. We, having not been able to push through the harmonisation of the pension system, did not bend long before the demands of customs officers. But since their rights have been constitutionally established, there seems to be no way out, nor does it make sense to leave the door to another complaint, leave the field for another initiative. Especially since, as the Minister emphasized, you represent the Government of Law and Justice, and that is the Law and Justice in the previous term or rather in previous terms, because the dispute is very long, supported customs officers. It was the law and justice that supported the citizens' legislative initiative in its entirety, without exception. It was the Law and Justice that contributed to the appeal against this provision. So it seems to me that ultimately, at the end, there were no consequences so that you and the customs officers, with your head raised, could talk about full satisfaction. It's partial. That's why we at our club have a dilemma after today's discussion about how to behave. On the one hand, despite differences of opinion, we congratulate the tax collectors on their stubbornness and attitude; on the other hand, we do not know whether to support a project that does not fully implement the intentions of the Constitutional Court's judgment and your expectations, which is right in my view. I therefore hope that you will resolve these dilemmas positively, in favour, in addition, of the amendments tabled. I'm looking at the president here today, who knows it well. It's not about that kind of money, and it's not about that kind of number in the pension system. The government is doing and should do everything it can to ensure that the least possible people benefit from the right to early retirement. It's not about hundreds of people, it's about tens of thousands of people. Give God and hundreds of thousands! And in order to improve the situation of the FUS, we are crushing here copies of money by a very small amount, compared to those annual billions, and the amounts on which the budget does not depend. We've heard so many times lately from this speaker that the state of the budget And it's about the supply system, the budget system, it's excellent, it's good, it's even better. Minister, I think you'll agree with these statements. So, what's going on?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u84	Mr. Senator, thank you. Aren't you proposing legislative amendments? [[Report, report.]] You're making adjustments, aren't you? Okay, thank you very much. Senator Grzegorz Bierecki has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u85	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens' Initiative Committee! You should have waited 17 years for us to talk about this change. Much had to be changed in Poland so that there could be a proper location of the pension supply of Customs officials. 17 years of resistance from groups that were different names, but they always wanted to throw everyone in one bag of retirement in the name of some crazy ideology that doesn't distinguish between work and service. And we are convinced that there is a fundamental difference in work and in service to the Lightest Republic for which we thank you and for which the Polish state should reward you and should give you the privileges that you deserve. It took 17 years, but Poles chose a government that finally puts things in the right way and listens to citizens. This is the first citizens' initiative that hasn't gone to the trash that ends its legislative course. We'll be voting in a minute. This morning I even asked Marshal Karczewski to take a photo with the representatives of the citizens' initiative committee, because this is a historic moment in the Polish Parliament when the citizens' initiative went all the way. Congratulations, compliments. Mr. Chairman, very good work. So congratulations on your stubbornness. But we are dealing with an environment that proudly wears uniforms, Polish uniforms, which is well organized and which can consistently demand its own, just as it works honestly, and consistently and reliably demands its rights. Our happiness is that on the other side is the government, there is the minister who listened to this voice. I'm having a little trouble hearing about the amendments being tabled. Because the senator told me about the partial satisfaction. I always see this partial satisfaction as a prediction of a good, lasting relationship. Because if the satisfaction is complete and final, what more do we have to do? I think that this job, which has been done, is a discussion on pension pay for uniformed services, more generally, or people who do police work... I'm talking about those people whose discussion actually started in the Senate, because we had a lot of writings from officials... sorry, employees, not to introduce wrong terminology. In their letters, they argued that they had also performed police functions. This judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal does not cover them, nor were they included in the civic project. But there are works, there is work done in Parliament, there are these impact assessments of regulation, there are amendments, there are projects. So maybe you need to, knowing that there is no full satisfaction, think about another path, about another proposal for a law, and now not slow down this success. 17 years is a long enough expectation. If we now have something else to do, to add something to this bill to delay or hinder the adoption of this good law, good, because the whole Sejm voted for it unanimously, then let us not do it. Let's not do this. Better is the enemy of good. We want it to be a good bill, and we want it to be as soon as possible. So I'm going to appeal to you to adopt this law without any amendments. And the issues raised during parliamentary work will probably be the subject of the work of the Sejm and the Senate in the future. We have time and we can do it in the next move. Now the tax service is at a historic moment for itself. The Minister is persistent, hardworking, tirelessly building the National Tax Administration, and we are very fond of him. We see the success of this reform, because figures are published. I'm talking about budget success, from the point of view of the amount of money that comes to him. Well, treasure criminals are effectively combated. It's not a week since we haven't heard about the liquidation of any more groups who have been extorting VAT and organizing criminal carousels. We are talking about good budget protection and the influx of taxes that will make us able to afford everything we talked about and what is needed to fix Poland. So I propose that we adopt this law as soon as possible, so that it enters into force immediately. And after assessing the functioning of this law, which must also be linked to the assessment of the implementation of the National Tax Administration, probably there will be time for corrections, there will be time for changes. And we're gonna be willing to take these changes. It would be good to look at the results, it would be good to assess the situation in which we are in. Most importantly, after 2017, we want to make sure that the budget is stable and that the fiscal services responsible for collecting taxes are solid and stable. And then we will accept the next expenses, and we can tell you responsibly that we, Poland, can afford it. And now once again, I congratulate the Committee on the legislative initiative. Thank you for this project, but first of all thank you for your service to our brightest Republic. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u86	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. For the record, Senator Andrzej Kaminski made his speech in the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. Would a government representative like to comment on these proposals? Please, Minister Banas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address Senator Augustine's statement. Mr Senator, I would just like to stress that there have been 8 years of PO-PSL governments, so you have also had the opportunity to adopt this law without any amendments, taking into account all the demands in the form proposed in the citizens' initiative, but unfortunately you have not passed this law. Law and Justice do it. That's one thing. The second point concerns substantive issues. Why has a circle of officers been narrowed down who acquire these powers on the basis of a ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal? High Izbo, that is, if we were to accept such assumptions as were presented in this civic project, then every employee, every officer, 15 thousand people, would be covered by these powers. And the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal makes it clear that police tasks are being carried out. So if we were now, in the new structure in which we operate, in the National Tax Administration, when we have almost 50,000 tax employees who work eight hours each. As I say, such an element of human justice, social justice, have accepted these demands, which the senator also proposes here, and have expanded this circle... After all, the principle of justice also proves that if even someone had the status of an officer, but worked in these auxiliary cells for eight hours, like any other tax employee, and went home after eight hours... Well, even from a purely human point of view, I'm asking you, on what basis would he be entitled to this privilege of obtaining pension rights. So this is also one of the important elements that we've considered in our approach. We have limited it, as is the case with other uniformed services, where someone is actually available for 24 hours, but actually, not theoretically. This is a theory we're talking about. Yes, the Customs Service Act talked about the availability of all officers, but in fact only a few of them, just those whom we now include, have carried out these tasks. So let me stress once again that this is the optimal way out. From the very beginning we were in favour, but we wanted to consider not only this legal element, but also purely human. Today, it would be really unfair if some of the workers who worked eight hours and carried out auxiliary tasks, in accounting, in logistics, were covered by these powers. I move that these amendments be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u88	Thank you, Minister. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Yes? [[In corrigendum mode.]] Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u89	Let me get this straight. Mr. Minister, the amendments we're making aren't going as far as you say they are. They are precise and apply only to those specified cells, several hundred people, not thousands, those who we believe should be covered by this supply system, as are other officers performing police tasks.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u90	Thank you. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the review of item two of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 517 and the report of the committee In print No 517 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Dorota Czudowska, to submit a report to the committee. [[Voice from the hall: Wait till the minister gets here? It's already...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please move the calls to the cocksuckers. The proceedings are taking place. The senator has a voice. Please. [[Aren't we waiting for the minister? He's in the hallway. Oh, here he comes, the minister's coming in.]] Hello, Minister. Please take your seat. Please, the senator has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to report on the work of the Senate Health Committee of the Republic of Poland, which yesterday discussed a law amending the Act on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The text of the Act, which was adopted in the Seym on 25 May 2017, is contained in print No 517. It is a very important and expected law by patients, doctors and many environments concerned about the health of Poles and Poles. This law is also awaited by many administrative staff in broad health care, from the staff of the Ministry of Health to the NFZ, workers related to pharmacy, and by all those involved in the implementation of new technologies in medicine. The contested law, as I said, is a law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws, such as the 2001 pharmaceutical law, the 2011 Health Information System Act, the 2011 Refund Act on medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices, and the 2006 Food Safety and Nutrition Act. Changes in records or deletions of some, adding others, in general, result in the Minister of Health getting more opportunities and more opportunities to make decisions that save lives and health and in such important matters as emergency access to drug technologies. We know a lot and we hear about situations when you need some medicine that is not in Poland, or you need a medicine that is in Poland, but is not allowed, it is not included in the list when it comes to guaranteed benefits, and there are accounts, sub-accounts of different foundations, so that for treatment or child or adult from so-called. orphan diseases get the resources. This law introduces solutions by which the Minister will have the opportunity to grant, of course, after appropriate treatment, applications, opinions, within, up to, and 1.5 months in clinically justified cases, after the exhaustion of other treatments under guaranteed benefits, to the patient, which may, as we know, save his life. The Act also regulates the principles of cooperation between the Minister of Health and the President and the Authority, the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification and the Council for Tarification. This is very important because the agency, this institution, has existed, but so far it has not had the freedom to act and be confident in the action that we give it under this amended law. There are also some provisions to improve the functioning of the agency, such as the resignation of two vice presidents for one president. The main objective of the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technology and Tarification is to evaluate This objective will continue to be pursued. and to issue recommendations for medical technologies in the framework of guaranteed benefits. Those tasks that the bill imposes on... The provisions of the Act provide for specific financial resources for the years 2017 to 2026 for the implementation of the planned actions, for the performance of statutory tasks and, no less important, for the costs of the remuneration of the Board. Why is it so important? It was done late, it should have been done much earlier. That wasn't the kind of tool the last minister had. These changes will affect the fact that new recommendations for new medical technologies or even existing ones will eliminate... Medicine goes forward and with some technologies, some procedures we can give up for other, better, innovative, more effective. The efficient functioning of the Agency will ensure We hope that this will be the case. More effective treatment, reduced costs of treatment as well as increased transparency of expenditure of the National Health Fund. There is also a change in this law that arouses great emotions among the public. It's about changing the article. 23a of the Law of 6 September 2001 on pharmaceutical law, where we add paragraph. 1a changing the category of availability of the medicinal product for use in contraception to a doctor's prescription. It's about the preparation of ulipristal acetate, the so-called. ellaOne, which was not by law, but by order since April 2015, was available in Poland without a prescription. All you had to do was be 15 years old... I don't know if anyone's been checking to see if the buyers of this pill were those 15 years old, but that's probably what the debate's gonna be about. I'll talk about it myself. You're gonna have to go to the front desk... There is also a change in the Health Information System Act. It's not enough to enter the patient's age... If there is no PESEL, the date of birth must be entered on the reception desk. This is also for the safety of the patient, the person who is taking this medicine. These are the major changes in this bill. It is therefore about the Minister's new ability to act, better access to technology, to rescue treatment, better operation of the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification. The committee meeting was very calm, the discussion was factual and brief. The senators asked the Minister of Health about this emergency access to medical technology, whether the bill would meet the expectations of greater transparency of NFZ spending. We also asked the minister... We asked you to respond to the Senate Legislative Office's opinion. There were also questions about the appropriateness of changing the rules of access to ellaOne pills. The senators have not tabled any amendments. With a vote, with one vote against, the Commission adopted this law without amendment by a large majority. We therefore recommend to the High House that the Law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare and certain other laws be adopted by the Senate without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u92	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may raise a question to the Senator rapporteur from a place lasting no more than a minute. Senator Blackbay, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u93	Mr. Marshal, Mrs. Senator, thank you for your thorough report on the committee meeting. In connection with the senator's statement, if you don't mind, I'd like to ask you to elaborate on the issues that the senator was kind enough to stress here. The question of availability of medicines and individual treatment. It is about preparations, medicines that are not on the list, but you need an individual procedure for a particular type of disease. You told the senator that now that the minister's supervision is in place, it's gonna be easier, faster and better. My question is: so far, today, in the current legal system, is there no possibility that this is an individual possibility... [[There's no...]] Wait a minute, I'm just gonna finish. That's the first question. And the other. You said that new technologies would have, in short, a better way, because a shorter way of implementing them. Would you mind telling us what kind of technology we're talking about? The technologies that are waiting, which, due to barriers, I understand, official, are not being implemented. And the third question. You said that this recipe for a tablet a day after that will protect minors when it comes to using this tablet. Could you tell us how this bill will protect minors from using these pills?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u94	Well, maybe I'll answer the first question. Mr. Senator, unfortunately, the Minister has not been able to do so in recent years. medicine, access to life-saving medicines outside those benefits that are guaranteed benefits. And guaranteed benefits are those for which healthcare providers conclude contracts with the National Health Fund. It was in 2014 that the Civic Platform government withdrew from this rescue route and to this day we have not had such an opportunity in the last three years. Does the Minister implement these procedures? Yes. They are described in detail in the act. We did not discuss this at the committee meeting yesterday, so if my answer is unsatisfactory, ask the Minister again. But this procedure won't last very long. There are conclusions, opinions, recommendations and the patient should receive such treatment within one and a half months. That's the answer to the first question. Second question: what new technologies? This was also not the subject of yesterday's discussions and deliberations of the committee. I am not involved in new technologies, so I cannot tell you what the agency is currently working on, but from my medical experience I know that as a result of these works and evaluations of new technologies in Poland some operations carried out on Da Vinci equipment will soon be reimbursed. In Poland we have 3 such cameras, 2 of which work a little bit. Let me remind you, little Czechs have 23 da Vinci cameras. They allow very precise operation in difficult places, e.g. for intestinal cancer or prostate cancer in men. But I'm just pointing out this as an example. Alternatively, please address this question to the Minister. And now about the pills, which means... How did you formulate that question? [[If I may, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u95	Yes. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u96	And immediately a commentary: Mrs. Senator, I asked these questions because the senator in her speech raised these threads. [[Yeah, yeah.]] That's why I'm asking about technology. But I'll ask the Minister. As for the pill, the senator said that this bill would protect minors from taking the pill. I'd like you to develop your thoughts, because that wasn't the subject of a committee meeting either. And by agreeing or disagreeing with the senator's statement, I'd like the senator to tell you how, according to the senator, the bill will protect minors from taking this pill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u97	He'll protect you, because to have that pill... However, access to it will be much more difficult This does not mean that it is impossible for minors. We're selling this pill to girls today, children. Fifteen-year-old or sixteen-year-old is still a child. He doesn't have the right, he doesn't even have the right to vote. We don't have... I would like to say more in the debate, but if that's what you're asking, I will. There are no studies on this group of persons, from 15 to 18 years of age, concerning side effects, because no one will carry out such studies without the consent of the study itself, and such consent can only be signed as being 18 years of age, as you are an adult. So there's a drop of drugs in the juveniles completely out of control. As soon as it's a prescription drug that we have to write a PESEL or at least date of birth, we'll know that those 260,000 pills sold in the last two years... And before writing about freedom, about buying this tablet without a prescription, in Poland there were few more than 10 thousand of them sold. And we don't know who took that pill or how many times he took it. How can you conduct scientific research or evaluate its possible... Well, I won't even use the word "possibly," because the harmful effects will certainly occur, but I will say a little more about it in the debate. The purchase of a prescription medicine will also be preceded by I hope so. Talking to a doctor. Your doctor will ask you about your health, tell you about your contraindications, the potential for early and late complications. First of all, we protect the health of young girls from the effects of this pill on their later procreational life, but also sexual life.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u98	Thank you. The question is asked by Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u99	Thank you very much. Dear Senator, in view of the various controversy surrounding this bill, I would like to ask whether the ellaOne tablet has been discussed at the committee meeting in the context of... In short, the question is whether questions were asked about this tablet and whether the Ministry answered the question whether it was an early-poron tablet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u100	They've been asked questions like this. Senator Czarnobaj asked such a question. I will now answer as a doctor, not as a senator, because there was no discussion about it. We didn't discuss it again when the Minister answered. From what I, as a doctor, know about the action of hormone blockers called progesterone, it appears that such a tablet must not have an early-opportunity effect. [[Thank you very much. Would you kindly quote the Minister's reply as well?]] Maybe I'll say this: I'm not quoting the Minister. With all due respect, I can... Well, I'm not gonna quote inaccurately, and if that's a question... [[The Minister is present and will speak on his own.]] The Minister is present, so ask the Minister this question... [[You'll be able to ask that question.]] ...because I don't want to quote it inaccurately.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u101	Thank you, Senator. You're going to ask Senator Komarnicki another question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u102	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senator, my question concerns the Transparency Council. It is a council that acts in front of the President of the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technology and Tarification. As the name suggests, it is a transparency board. Therefore, it has so far been the case that, although the Minister has appointed this Council, it was the statutory provisions which said under which conditions its member may be revoked. In turn, the new records give the Minister a great weapon in the form of the possibility of selecting and releasing members of the Transparency Council. Therefore, I have a question for the honourable senator: how will the Minister now assess the transparency of these greatest authorities in terms of health services? And is it to be transparent what will be considered transparent by the Minister or what has been applied so far in accordance with the law?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u103	Mr. Senator, I'd have to find those records, and it'd probably take a while. The Transparency Council does not change in its essence. We even simplify certain provisions, because before we had to make statements that there was no conflict of interest or relationship with pharmaceutical companies, it was checked whether this statement had been made on time or not. Today, failing to make such a statement, in short, eliminates the council. We, too, have to make statements about our wealth. We don't do it, we're having consequences. And it will also allow us not to drag the cases of those to whom we have reservations forever. Not about their knowledge, but about their links. Today, it could even be some kind of family connection. If even in non-governmental organizations... If I'm the president of my organization, then I can't have my employees on the board, so let's just say in cases where there's so much money involved. So that we're not changing anything here, we're improving it. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u104	You're asking Senator Libicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, Mrs. Senator, this is a law that applies to a wide range of medical technologies, but there is nothing to hide that in public discourse it was brought to the issue of pills a day after. [[I'm afraid so.]] I've been analyzing this discussion extensively, wondering whether it's an early-restraint or not. In my opinion... I didn't find any arguments that this wasn't an early resistance measure. I think he is. That's why you can count. That is to say, the initiators of this law in support of me in this matter. I believe that this is simply a matter of worldview. I'd like to ask... This is my justification, but I would like to ask what was the justification of the initiators, that is, the government, for writing a prescription for the tablet
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u106	Mr. Senator, the main goal was to control the number of pills sold, especially who and how many pills we sell. We know that this tablet has its side effects, as I said, faster and those that may appear in a few years. Today, although we sell almost 250 or 260 000 of these tablets in Poland, we do not know who took them and how many times. Therefore, how can any scientific research be conducted? How can I register side effects? Even though it says on the flyers... But maybe I'll talk more about it in the debate. There's very, very wrong information. It can't be over a drug that's hormonal... Besides, all hormonal drugs in Poland are prescription. All of them. Only one tablet with an exceptionally large amount of substance that inhibits the effects of progesterone, i.e. ulipristal acetate, with a very large amount, which is not seen in other tablets of this type, because 30 mg, is sold without a prescription. It just can't happen. All the birth control pills... And this is also a birth control. Conceptual and, according to me and all the medical world Early resistance, therefore, cannot be excluded from other hormonal drugs, not only contraceptives, which are sold in our country on prescription.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u107	Senator Anders is asking you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u108	I have one question, then I'll have two comments. I don't know... Is this tablet paid for here in Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u109	Yeah, yeah. It costs different, depending on the pharmacy it is paid from 120 PLN to 130 PLN, 150 PLN.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u110	In the United States, this tablet was taken for sale without a prescription a few years ago. [[Two years ago.]] The fact is, she costs $25 a pill. [[It's cheaper than in Poland.]] [[Voices from the hall: It's cheaper.]] But the thing is, in my... I think there are two important points. The first is that it is relatively new and we do not know what the impact will be on these young people. And the other thing. I think that's why people don't just take responsibility for sex; someone thinks that if I get pregnant, I'm gonna take a pill. I think it's very dangerous, too, because if someone really wants to prevent pregnancy, they should take pills regularly and not something... In my opinion, the introduction of a prescription is a little dangerous, in the sense that sometimes it may be too late to take this tablet. Because if you don't have access to the doctor right away and you have to wait two or three days, then it's too late. Well, I'm not a doctor. That's the last question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u111	Senator, the package leaflet of ellaOne states that it is effective 1 and 5 days after. So there is no one in Poland... if someone doesn't think ahead and treats their own... Well, I wouldn't want to go into worldly and moral things here. About that, I agree with you 100%. However, there is no such danger, because it does not have to be written only by a gynecologist, it can write out any... this prescription can be written by any doctor, also a doctor in a private office. She can be discharged by any doctor who has a stamp, if she is a doctor and has the right to discharge medications, she can discharge such medication. So there's no such thing as a situation. If someone bought this pill before and it's in his pocket because I never know what's gonna happen, you can still approach life. It's got her before. But within 5 days you can always get to a doctor somewhere in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u112	You're asking Senator Ryszka a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u113	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I'd like to... Will you confirm my thinking? Because here the question was whether ellaOne's tablet was an early resistance agent. If, therefore, it were confirmed that this was an early anti-religious measure, it would argue with the Constitution, with the Life Defense Act, with the Constitutional Tribunal's judgments, etc. So, basically, we couldn't even get this drug in the pharmacies at all. [[Exactly.]] [[Yes.]] So we've actually been lying to each other here from the very beginning, which is why... [[Yes, we agree.]] ...it should first be medically stated that it is an early resistance measure.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u114	Yeah, it's just... [[And that's the next case.]] Yeah, that, too, I think, will answer... Because in this spirit there was also an answer from the Minister at the committee meeting and he will probably answer the question asked by Senator Zdrojewska. Note, too, what delicate matter it is to be examined. I already told you. The fact that I believe that it is an early-resistant tablet is due to what I know about the female hormone known as progesterone. I know what this hormone causes in the ovaries and in the uterus. However, such tests cannot be carried out, even for ethical reasons. I mean, how do you test a 5-day pregnancy? All we can do is guess her. But you can't do any tests here, because when you're five days pregnant, it would be associated with the removal of the implanted embryo. So that responsibility I am already going beyond the discussion, beyond the discussion at the committee's meeting. No, for doctors and people responsible for health... In this case, I'm still defending this... Because an adult has the will and can do what he wants. But those young men from 15 to 18 years old... We have no way of investigating, and then, in the future, either a woman confesses to taking a pill like this when there are any complications, infertility and cancers, or not. And now that it's prescription, there's gonna be some kind of control.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u115	The question is Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u116	Two questions. First. Tell me: what does it look like in other countries? We heard from the senator about what it's like in the United States. And what is it like in the countries of the European Union? This is the first case. Mr. Senator Ryszka delivered me here, calling this doubt. Well, if it's an early-restraint, then why do we agree to its use, even with a prescription? But I would like to ask you about the effects of this possible regulation. Have any estimates been made of how much the grey zone will increase in this regard? And did they realize that it might have an early-poron effect? If we issue it on prescription later, are we going to propose to women instead of preventing nesting or allowing it to be fertilized... that we will only use it as early-term measures? Because as it turns out from my conversation with my gynecologist, the effect of this tablet is: if it is taken in time, immediately, at the right time of ovulation, then it does not become fertilized, and if later, it becomes fertilized and it acts prematurely. And you're going to do it. To act early, to act later. In my opinion, this is completely absurd.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u117	First things first, Mr. Senator. Thank you for asking. Other countries. What is it like in other countries? In the EU countries, most of these countries, except Hungary, the drug is sold without a prescription, but there are mandatory consultations with the pharmacist. The pharmacist needs to talk to the person who buys the medicine, ask her about certain things, tell her about contraindications, ask her if she is taking other medicines, e.g. against asthma, because then the effect can be that the sick can just suffocate. There's also liver disease... In most countries where the drug is sold... In the European Union, I will say it again. Besides Hungary and Poland... If we enter this record, only two countries will sell this prescription drug. In other countries it is mandatory to talk to a pharmacist. In Poland, I assure you, there are no such conversations, only sells You want, you pay, you buy, you leave. Gray zone. A brief discussion was also held on this subject. Of course, there will be a gray area, because in the EU countries these tablets are free. We're going there, we're going to the pharmacy, and we can buy a pill like this. In countries outside the European Union, these tablets can also be purchased, but only 5 packs, or 5 tablets, can be transported across the border. Of course, we know how it works. The gray zone will exist, but it also existed prior to the introduction of a non-prescription tablet. At that time, the pills sold were much less. The commercial's doing its job. The tablet is taken without consideration. There's some demand, and it all creates an illusion of security. It'll be a gray zone. I will return to such a cardinal example. Is it because there are thefts and murders in Poland, that we should not create criminal law that would prohibit thefts and murders? That's the same problem. I'd like to say more... The senator says we're funding an early-opportunity pill. I want to tell everyone, including young people, that I, as a doctor, will never write anyone a prescription like this. I'm protected by a clause of conscience and medical ethics. I'm never gonna prescribe a pill like this to anyone just because I know she has one, not another. But that's not the only thing. It is also about the long-term effects of this treatment. I will talk more about this in the debate. Sorry, not treatment, but using this tablet. I would also say of such a law of Moses of the Old Testament: I allow you to give a letter of divorce because of your stubbornness, not because it is good. That's the way I'm gonna put it, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u118	Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, we have been listening to a group of students from Luzin and their guardians for a few minutes. Hello, young people and carers. The question is asked by Senator Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u119	Senator, I would like to ask you to clarify your answer to the question of where such solutions are used in Europe. You said that in most countries of the European Union they are not, and in Hungary they are. [[Only in Hungary.]] So not mostly. Only in Hungary. [[Only in Hungary. God forbid that's true in Poland, too.]] Tell me, Senator, or... It's very possible that female hormone... What's his name? [[Progesterone.]] Proteseron. [[Progesterone.]] It's possible that progesterone is harmful... [[No, he's not harmful.]] [[Voice from the room: It's harmful.]] [[He is harmful when we interfere in stimulating or inhibiting its production. It's even a hormone of happiness.]] I see. But the pill... [[Tablet inhibits...]] [[It's anti--]] I see. This pill is somehow harmful. [[Yes.]] [[For this hormone.]] For this hormone. I'm asking... As I understand it, for the body as well. And are pharmacological contraception also harmful? Do they affect women's bodies?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u120	Of course you do, Mr. Senator. Just read the package leaflet of any contraceptive medicine. I always ask this as a home job for patients who use contraceptive pills, which I ask about their use, because it's one of the factors of breast cancer that I deal with professionally. And as a homework, please read this leaflet carefully. The indications on the leaflet are so much, the contraindications are so much, and the side effects are even more. [[Voice from the room: Each tablet...]] Not like every... [[No, I... my question...]] Yeah, they're harmful. [[You know where my question is headed.]] They're harmful. They're harmful, Mr. Senator. [[That it is harmful and limited, and those contraceptives, even though they are harmful, are simply not limited.]] Yes. That's why we think all hormonal drugs should be... any hormonal medication is harmful, whether it's an adrenal product, like corticosteroids or mineralocorticoids or thyroid hormones. Everything in excess and underdog is bad for the body.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u121	You're asking Senator Klich a question. [[Voice from the room:...On prescription...]] [[Excuse me, what's prescription?]] [[Voice from the room: No, no...]] Senator Klich has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u122	Senator, you're a practicing doctor. I finished my medical education 30 years ago. Something may have changed since then when it comes to ovulation and fertilization and pregnancy, but I don't think so. Let's get the facts straight. Pregnancy is when the sperm-fertilised egg implants into the uterus. [[In the lining of the uterine cavity prepared by progesterone.]] So two conditions must be met to determine that a woman has become pregnant. The first is fertilization, the second is implantation. If you continue And I assume that's the case. The progesterone in a woman's body causes, facilitates the nesting of zygote in the uterine cavity... Then the pregnancy has a chance, first, to rise, second, to survive. [[Development.]] If the measure we're talking about reduces action... [[He's blocking the progesterone receptors...]] ...blocks the effect of progesterone... [[...so it's a huge action...]] ...it doesn't block it, Senator, fertilization, but it blocks nesting, which means pregnancy. Well, if that's the case, it's not an early-poron, because miscarriage, if I remember correctly, is divided into artificial and natural, but in any case miscarriage is when the zygote is nested in the uterine cavity. [[Mr. Senator, now I'm asking you a question.]] That's why I'd like to ask you... Well, if it were otherwise, if this measure had already affected implanted zygote, it would actually have had abortion with its help, banned in Polish law except for certain specific situations. And since it's a means that doesn't allow pregnancy, it's more of a contraceptive. So why would a prescription apply to this measure and not to other contraceptives? Is the senator able to answer that question?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u123	I'll start at the end. All contraceptives in Poland are prescription, Mr. Senator. All contraceptive drugs are sold on prescription, except for this one so-called. day after day. [[Your friend doesn't know that.]] All drugs are sold on prescription. That's one thing. I don't know... I would suggest to the President that he may hold a committee meeting from the reception, with a repetition of his knowledge of the beginnings of his life. Science says that man is born... the embryo of man... no, man is created at the time of the combination of female and male gametes In a language that young people understand: male sperm and female egg. It could happen in the fallopian tubes, it could happen closer, already at the mouth of the fallopian tube into the uterus, but this embryo, already human. 'Cause as soon as you conceive, you connect cells, in one day you already have a few divisions, and we already know what color this man will have hair, eyes, height, etc., etc... [[In Kraków a little later.]] Please? [[In Kraków a little later.]] Ha, no... no. And if it is the right effect of progesterone, if at the right time, without obstacles and without human interference, it will affect the normal growth of the lining of the uterus that prepares the woman's body and uterus to accept the embryo, then the pregnancy, as the senator said, will develop. I have the opinion of a specialist, a professor, a gynecologist who... Because the leaflets are different, but in the debate I will tell you what information is provided to the public and what information is in the scientific materials. There is ulipristal acetate, a progesterone blocker, it has ovulation inhibition, so it acts on the ovary and has an inhibitory effect on the nesting of the embryo in the womb. So it has effects and contraceptives, and it has early resistance. And as I said before, for ethical reasons and because of the microscopic size of... well, at this point, man already 'Cause there's no problem for us here. We are not able to investigate this at this stage.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u124	Senator Zdrojewska has a voice. Question. There you go. [[I'm already giving up my question. I will have questions for the Minister because I would like to get the opinion of the Ministry. I respect the views of the senator very much, but unfortunately, you keep telling us about your opinion...]] [[These aren't opinions. Views are...]] [[I respect the views and opinions of the senator very much...]] Does the senator have a question? [[Like I said, I'm dropping the question because...]] Thank you very much, Mr. Senator. [[Thank you.]] The question is Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u125	Senator, I understand that those who want to take this pill so far and in the future will do so in fear of becoming pregnant, which they do not want. My question is, is this bill or any other law going to do anything for those girls, women who are going to get unwanted pregnancy? And second question. Aren't we provoking a huge underground or abortion? Because one thing's for sure. You've been telling me about this. I mean, it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... That 200,000 girls, women, each They're doing it because they don't want to get pregnant. After the change, they won't have the opportunity. What then?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u126	Senator, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u127	Mr. Senator, this discussion is beginning to go beyond the framework of our committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yeah, but since... We have the right institutions that look after a pregnant woman, there's a whole gynaecology and obstetrician babysitting pregnant women, including young people, and we also have a lot of women's homes in very dramatic situations. If the family denies it or doesn't take care of a girl who's not gonna realize what she's in danger of... Because it's about, well, I wouldn't want to enter into these worldview discussions about eliminating the effects of accidental sex; so to speak. That's what Senator Anders said. Because a man who's planning his sex life, and I think 15, 16, 17 is not age. But that's my opinion. To plan such a life... We can't go out in front of all the expectations of treating a contraceptive as a drug: I want to, I'm gonna buy a cigarette and I'm gonna smoke, I'm gonna have a glass of alcohol, although I'm not allowed, I want to, so I'm not gonna think about the effects, I'm gonna take a pill, and I'm gonna... Or maybe talking to your parents, mostly them, would make these girls not reach for a pill like this. And if your parents don't talk, let the doctor talk and warn you about the harm and consequences for the future.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u128	Thank you, Senator. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, the bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Senator, thank you. [[Thank you very much.]] Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Marek Tombarkiewicz: Mr President, the position of the government was clearly presented yesterday at the meeting of the Health Committee. In an analytical summary, I answered all the questions. So today I don't have a new position.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Zdrojewska volunteered, as I recall, first, but there are further questions, and we'll be taking notes. I ask the Minister to take a stand in the stands because there will be questions addressed to you. The government represents Marek Tombarkiewicz, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u129	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, first of all, I'd like to ask you why. Because this is quite important, I believe, and the social controversy of the absence of Minister Radziwiłł, our colleague, at today's meeting. I know he wasn't in the Seym either. And second question. I would like to ask you to explain whether this ellaOne tablet is of an early nature and what is the basis for your judgment, of course, as a representative of the Minister, the Ministry, and not as a private person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u130	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u131	(PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister Radziwiłł authorised me as the person supervising the department of drug policy, which was working on this law, to present a position. The Minister has his classes today, at 1 p.m., the college began, which usually lasts until 3 p.m., sometimes longer, so he probably could not be present for this debate for this reason. Besides, this debate has been postponed for over two hours. So that I can say so much about the absence of Minister Radziwill. As far as the M.O. is concerned, as the senator said, ulipristal acetate is a blocker that affects the progesterone receptor. The general effect is the delay in ovulation, i.e. the release of the egg cell, which, when combined with the male cell, becomes zygote. The second action is the delay in implantation of fertilized cells, i.e. zygote, in the wall of the uterus. Therefore, according to the Summary of Product Characteristics, it is a contraceptive used for emergency contraception. Given all aspects, including the time of application... According to the information contained in the Summary of Product Characteristics, this blocking action is effective for a period of 120 hours, i.e. 5 days. So you have to remember that. Here I will use information from the blog endocrinologia.net If the main contraceptive mechanism is presented as inhibition of ovulation, the question arises as to why it is so effective in preventing pregnancy, such as this medicine, when ovulation has already taken place, whether its effect is merely to prevent embryo implantation or to prevent embryotoxicity from nested embryos, and this has been observed in animal studies. On this blog there is a link to specific research. The general effect is the delay in ovulation by 5 days maximum, and the second effect is the inhibition of the possibility of implanting the fertilized egg in the uterine wall. [[I'm sorry, didn't I overhear that quote about... did you say "blog"?]] This is a portal run by endocrinologists, by endocrinologists, that is, specialists...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u132	This opinion comes from a blog? Once again, I ask you to refer to what European... I know that in many European countries In fact, in all but Hungary This medicine is a non-prescription medicine. I'd like you to give us some scientific opinions from the relevant authorities, that is, institutions that are involved, first of all, in allowing drugs to be used, secondly, in allowing a given drug to be used without a prescription. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u133	As regards the assessment of medicinal products, the EMA, the European Agency for Medicinal Products, is responsible for this at European level. Medicines that have allowed this medicine to be used in open-label or open-label administration. On the other hand, the European Commission has allowed an individual approach to whether this medicine must be prescription-based or whether it can be in open OTC sales. In Poland, registration takes place at the level of the registration office of medicinal products. After the period during which the medicine was available on prescription, registration was changed, in May 2015, to the registration of the OTC. The company that registered the drug changed that registration. During work at European Commission level, the then Deputy Minister of Health, Mr Sławomir Neumann, voted against the possibility of dispensing this medicine without a prescription.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u134	The question is Senator Florek, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u135	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, are you not concerned that the availability of a prescription tablet will increase the scale of illegal abortion in Poland? Because access to the doctor... This is where time plays. You were talking about those hours. Access to the doctor is different, among others. depending on where you live. This availability is not always so direct, and time plays a great role here. Wouldn't it be better if this availability... This pill costs money, she's expensive. The point is that it can be used in an emergency rather than led, especially when it comes to young people, to an abortion situation, in this case illegal abortion. Is this the kind of research you've been trying to do? Will you carry out such analyses if this change enters into force? Because one can conclude that this will increase the scale of abortion in Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u136	Senator, access to the doctor... As the senator said, writing this prescription preparation is not limited only to the gynecologist of the obstetrician, but to every doctor, and every Polish citizen has 24/7 access to a doctor as part of night and Christmas medical care. In my experience as an on-call doctor and director of the hospital, I know that patients often use the possibility of 24/7 access to a doctor, i.e. doctor's services after hours of work, i.e. between 6 p.m. and 8 p.m. and on holidays, so we do not foresee any difficulties in accessing this tablet. So I don't think such a restriction is a strong incentive for illegal abortion. Besides, in 2014 and mid-2015 no one in the ministry did research on the impact on abortion growth after this first phase... after the introduction of ellaOne when it was prescription... It must be remembered that in the history of medicines with this effect used in emergency contraception there were several. So that there was no such study. No information is available on the threat of an increase in illegal abortion. What's important? The point is that because of the strength of this medicine... the dose of this medicine is 30 mg. This is the same preparation as the one used to treat uterine fibroids, only that a single dose is 5 mg. So there's a six-fold stronger side effect. The side effect of ulipristal acetate in the treatment of fibroids may lead to ovarian cysts or cyst ruptures, increases in cholesterol, triglycerides. Of course, this can be the case with long-term, not ad hoc use. It is important that you have the opportunity to talk to your doctor about possible contraindications to use or about drug interactions that may cause you to take this medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u137	You're asking Senator Klich a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u138	I am very pleased, Minister, that you used the right terminology when talking about a tablet after a day as a contraceptive, because indeed literature describes it as such. Yes, Senator Czudowska is right that hormonal contraceptives are prescribed for prescription, but there are spermicides, let alone mechanical contraceptives, which, on prescription... which are not available only on prescription. The difference between this agent and other hormonal agents used by women is that it is a disposable tablet, that it is intended to prevent the nesting of the embryo in the womb due to possible and unwanted pregnancy. I would like to ask the Minister whether, in view of the fact that this tablet has an emergency disposable use, other spermicides used by women will only be available on prescription.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u139	Mr. Senator, I would like to point out that considering a change in the recipe that requires prescription hormonals to be prescribed, we mean the situation that in our country all hormonal drugs for internal use are prescription medications. The only exception is the ellaOne tablet, which is not prescription. Therefore, there is absolutely no application here of the approach that the senator is presenting to other spermicides or external agents. This is how these measures can be separated. It was supposed to be prescribed on prescription. There is absolutely no such idea, suspicion or action plan.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u140	You're asking Senator Blackbay a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u141	Mr Marshal, Minister, once again I would like to ask about the issue of marketing the tablet in the European Union, including Poland. Could you confirm whether the tablet passed the full test and admission procedure on the European market? That's the first question. Second question. Let us not talk about the blog, but about official documents that are related to the use of this medicine. Are there official documents on the harmfulness of the tablet? That's another question. And one more thing. Minister, this was not at the committee meeting, we did not discuss it, but Senator Czudowska said today in her speech that the record on the tablet in the draft bill is intended to eliminate the effects of thoughtless sex. Is this also the Ministry's argument, or is that the senator's statement? Is this an argument about why you should enter the sale of this prescription tablet?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u142	As regards the registration of medicines, the European Medicines Agency, the EMA, is responsible for this at European level. At the Polish level it is the registration office of medicinal products. All measures that are admitted to the market must be registered either at European level, i.e. within the framework of the so-called "market." Central registration, or at national level. This procedure has certainly been carried out and therefore there are no suspicions of the wrong way of registration. As for the effects of the medicine, we can refer to them on the basis of the registration documents, i.e. the characteristics of the medicinal product. These include possible side effects or limited use due to some other medicines. This is clearly described in the summary of product characteristics and repeated in the package leaflet, which is available for everyone. I would like to say once again that the Ministry of Health does not believe that there can be a situation where one hormonal drug for internal use is excluded from prescription in the form of a medical prescription.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u143	You're asking the senator... [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal...]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u144	It's the answer to the second question. It may be difficult, but I'd like to ask... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Marek Tombarkiewicz: Mr. Senator, I think this is a question for the senator.]] No, Minister. You're welcome. I know what the senator said, and I'm asking you an official question. Minister, was the elimination of the effects of ill-considered sex one of the reasons for putting a ban on the sale of this non-prescription pill in the bill? [[I didn't say that.]] The question is simple, the answer is simple too, Minister. Yes or no.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u145	Senator, I repeat that the idea of the Ministry of Health was that any hormonal drug taken orally, for internal use, should be prescribed with a prescription. To correct the effects of thoughtless sex is more, say, philosophical than substantive in terms of the pharmacovigilance context. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u146	The question is Senator Stanisławek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u147	Thank you very much. Minister, do you have any record of how many packs of contraceptive pills have been prescribed to women during this period, which you have been administering when talking about using ellaOne pills? I think it was the years 2015 and 2016. Do we have any data on this period? What's the ratio, what's the difference? The Minister gave us a figure of 240 thousand at the committee meeting. How many prescription packs were there at that time? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Marek Tombarkiewicz: All contraceptives?]] All the birth control pills.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u148	Unfortunately, we have not prepared such data. [[What was the scale? Can you say something or nothing?]] No. I can give you the exact data on, I'll say ugly, the consumption of ellaOne tablets during this period. [[It's not about ellaOne, but it's about contraception in general.]] We don't have comparable data, we haven't prepared such data. This is obviously to be done. I can't answer that right now. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u149	Your question is Senator Boris-Damięcka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u150	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Speaking of all kinds of preparations, I would like to ask the Minister about preparations or measures for men intended to increase potency. In the growing number of commercials on TV and on the radio we hear that they have the power to act for up to 5 hours and more. [[We want to be healthy. We don't use anything.]] First of all, are there hormones in these drugs or not? Secondly, have studies been carried out, what is the degree of harmfulness of these measures? However, species and types are already in increasing numbers, and these are non-prescription drugs. Thank you. [[Let women poison themselves.]] I'm not asking Senator Ryszka's opinion, I'm asking the expert and the minister. [[But the Minister may consult with Mr Ryszka.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, allow the Minister to answer the question. [[Don't be so nervous.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, if I may... [[Ask Senator Ryszka again.]] These measures to improve erectile function in men are not hormonal agents. These are vascular agents that act by increasing the release of nitric oxide at vascular endothelial level. In fact, we're only talking about one thing about a chemical molecule, a preparation that actually has two or three registrations. This registration was made by the Agency for the Registration of Medicinal Products at the request of the manufacturer. So that we don't have any current studies on the harmfulness of this type of drugs here, but the mechanism of their action is a vascular mechanism, not a hormonal mechanism.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u153	I would like to ask you: were these tests done before these preparations were placed on the market, and who was doing these tests?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u154	The entire registration process shall be carried out through the registration office of medicinal products. If there is a request from the manufacturer to allow the sale of OTC, the URPL shall be responsible for this.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u155	The question is asked by Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u156	Minister, I am going back to the question of whether this is an early resistance measure, because you did not answer this question, but gave me a few opinions. But it's not my opinion, it's whether it's a legal drug, authorised in Poland, tested, etc., etc. If it were to be... Suppose it's an early-poron drug. Please note the consequences. Firstly, it should not be introduced, because, as Senator Ryszka rightly pointed out, it is contrary to the constitution. I mean, this measure de facto leads to abortion if it were what Senator Czudowska says. Secondly, in such a situation, please note that this prescription medicine will be legal in Poland. What about the conscience clause? The bill has not yet entered into force, and already some doctors refer to a clause of conscience. After all, you have to have reason to rely on a conscience clause. Explain to me how this clause of conscience... It's about that kind of thing when there's doubt. You're gonna tell me you don't have them because it's not an early-fashioned drug. Can a doctor then apply a conscience clause, and is the conscience clause sued somewhere? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u157	Senator, I think I've answered the senator's question quite precisely. Once again I can quote information from the summary of product characteristics: ulipristal acetate is a measure that inhibits ovulation for about 5 days, i.e. 120 hours, with efficacy, according to tests, seems to be about 80% , and which simultaneously blocks nesting the fertilized egg in the wall of the uterus. So that's the mechanism that's written down when you register this medicine. As far as the clause of conscience is concerned, it is a clause which is contained in the doctor's profession law. Everyone has the right to their own approach to matters I'm going to say a lot about life and death. Therefore, each of the doctors, using this clause, may individually approach whether or not he prescribes such a drug. It seems to me that if you consider the possibilities or access to doctors, there will be no problem to get a prescription for this measure.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u158	I'm sorry, I'm gonna have to tell you, 'cause I don't think we understand each other. First of all, you still haven't answered my question directly: it's an early resistance measure. Or not? And that other part of your speech would prove that... Tell me... These two circumstances cannot exist at the same time, i.e. If such a measure does not allow the egg to nest, then there can be no cell that is connected to the sperm, because something like this cannot happen. I understand you're saying... Do we understand each other well? You're talking about a situation where a patient is already pregnant and doesn't know it, right? Did...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u159	It could also happen that the patient doesn't know... [[Good.]] ...and she took it after a few days.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u160	Yeah, I get it. Or as a result of taking this medicine too late, because time here is very important... Well, there's been a nesting moment at the time, and this could happen... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Health Marek Tombarkiewicz: No, the connection was made and there was no nesting.]] Yes. I've read the contraindications, but I haven't found any evidence of it in these different descriptions of this product or this medicine. Tell me, if we have this kind of situation... Please tell us how many drugs are available in Poland also without a prescription, which can cause something like this and is written in leaflets not to be taken during pregnancy. We know a woman has a period when she's pregnant, and she doesn't know it, right? And that's when it happens involuntaryly. However, there are medicines that are non-prescription and leaflets do not want to be used during pregnancy because they can affect abortion or the bad course of pregnancy.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u161	Yeah, they could be. teratogens during the first trimester of pregnancy. That's right, there are measures. Well, it's hard for me to quote the number of such preparations at the moment, but I'm sure in many leaflets there's a warning that's kind of a safety valve for a manufacturer who can describe this kind of situation. Of course, these side effects are described according to the frequency of their occurrence, from frequent to moderate to rare. So that's...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u162	Yeah, I get it. Thank you very much. So I understand that in the case of those drugs, the effect is the same, i.e. In some cases, abortion or risk of pregnancy may occur. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Marek Tombarkiewicz: Yes.]] And yet these drugs are available without a prescription and... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Health Marek Tombarkiewicz: Because they are not hormonal substances taken internally.]] But the state has not quoted why hormones are so special, so extremely suspicious that they should be treated so exceptionally, and other measures that are also dangerous to health are not treated that way. Don't you see there's a complete inconsistency here?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u163	No, I don't see any inconsistencies, because we think that all hormonal measures taken internally should be available in our country on prescription because of their power of action. As I said, this tablet is six times the equivalent of a medicine used in other indications, it acts six times as much as it can cause serious side effects.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u164	You're asking Senator Rulewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u165	Minister, since this is considered a medical measure, the question is whether there will be a price-empty prescription with at least three categories: free, flat-rate or 30% ? [[For seniors.]] [[I'm in my 70s.]] And the second question, Minister, is whether the restriction of this acquisition should not be introduced Because it's about the duration of this, so a maximum of 24 hours • getting a prescription without a queue. Because if it's going to work, then... well, people from different towns aren't able to get this prescription in the PiS health care department within a week. That's the second question. And third, well, I'm smiling at Mrs. Chudowska here. Is it true that the introduction of this restriction is a declaration of failure of the 500+ programme, i.e. the absence of new births?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u166	But the third question is for the Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u167	Mr. Senator, if you'll excuse me, I can't answer the third question. I'm a doctor and I'm not in the 500+ program, which, I think, has good results and has nothing to do with... on the contrary: it can have and probably has a very positive effect on the birth increase. As for payment... An application for adequate remuneration, the level of payment is an application from a company that may seek to determine the level of payment. Here we are talking about a drug that should be used on an ad hoc basis, which is not in a systemic way, so we cannot talk about the cost of monthly therapy or taking, so absolutely in this case there can be no such thing. As far as PiS health care is concerned, I would like to point out that night and Christmas medical care were introduced a few years ago, and I think anyone can get to the doctor within probably a few hours. So I don't see any problems with access to a doctor who could prescribe this prescription... sorry, that prescription. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u168	Now you're asking Senator Comfort. Senator Comfort. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u169	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would just like to point out that this is the first time I've had the pleasure of proceding under the auspices of your marshal and... [[It's a total pleasure.]] I'm very happy for you. Minister, I'd like to ask with a little bit of another barrel. And please don't let my introduction fool you. I'd like to ask you about homeopathy. As far as I know, homeopathic medications are going through a normal registration procedure. Homeopathy is taught at medical schools, pharmaceutical as an object. There are countries where homeopathy is refunded. You also spoke in your statements about this registration procedure. Minister Radziwiłł, as President of the Medical Chamber, had the idea that he wanted to punish and expel doctors who treat homeopathy. And I'd like to ask you if this bump... Aren't you afraid that people who will prescribe these drugs will be under the same kind of pressure as homeopath doctors? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Marek Tombarkiewicz: I mean in the context of the fact that he will prescribe... because I didn't really catch the context of the senator's question.]] Because if you can treat doctors... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Health Marek Tombarkiewicz: A, in this context.]] ...recorded medications that go through the same procedure as alleleopathy, make such accusations, and then try to get rid of them by profession, I'm asking you if you're afraid that in such a controversial and inflammatory case 'Cause that's why we're here discussing that it's just, unfortunately, a matter of the world view, there's not going to be doctors who make that decision... Will they not fear that there will be consequences for them?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u170	If the senator wants my opinion, I would say that I absolutely do not see here a similarity, correlation or such a threat that these doctors will be branded in any way. If they think they won't want to prescribe this medicine, they won't prescribe it. However, I see absolutely no danger that someone would in any way draw the consequences or stigmatize such a doctor because he prescribed such a drug. I really don't see any danger.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u171	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Czesław Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u172	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I speak in medical matters as a layman, I speak immediately, but in the case of ellaOne medicine is deeply involved in moral matters, and these of course cannot be foreign to me. Moreover, one of my grandchildren is approaching the age of 15, and I can't imagine giving her a pill a day after that. What are we even discussing? A 15-year-old girl is to continue to have unfettered access to a strong hormonal agent without doctor control, as well as beyond her parents' knowledge. He's indirectly granted permission to, to put it simply, accidental sexual intercourse. Let's think about the age of the child we're talking about. Who invented those 15 years anyway? I remember, in my term of office, when I was a Member, we passed a ban on pornography, which notabene later President Kwasniewski vetoed. But it was the SLD that allowed 15-year-old girls to be present in porn films. Well, I guess our children's depravors don't fall asleep in ashes now that they've invented ellaOne. When, in January 2015, the European Commission authorised ellaOne to be sold without a prescription, which was classified as ellaOne. the emergency contraception applied after the relationship, then the then Minister of Health of the Civic Platform argued that the EU decision is mandatory. In short, Minister Arłukowicz lied to the public because the individual Member States decided whether the preparation would be available at all. Thus, in April 2015, Minister Arłukowicz issued a regulation that put the tablet on the market, and, moreover, without a prescription, it could be sold to all those who were only fifteen years old. And the former Minister of Health Ewa Kopacz, then the Prime Minister, equally lyingly argued that we are in the European Union, we have laws that say that this tablet is to be non-prescription. Those are her words. She said this, knowing that the European Commission did not pressure Poland on the universal availability of these tablets. In order to mislead the public, the Ministry of Health also informed that the pill could be sold in a country without a prescription, because the recipient of the decision of the European Commission is the company introducing the drug to the market, and the Polish government or health resort are not a party to the matter. My God, the government is not a party when a pharmaceutical company corrupts our children and ruins the health of Polish women. Such a twisted translation could only arise in irresponsible minds. It is no wonder that various associations, not only Catholic ones, protested against this solution. Polish Women's Forum, bringing together 53 women's organizations, strongly opposed the release of this pill for sale without a prescription, without medical inspection. In its petitions, the Forum indicated, among others. that the tablet threatens the life and health of women because it increases the risk of many diseases. It was also argued that easy access to the pills encouraged unordered sex life. The petitions also recalled the fact that the EU Directive does not oblige national legislation to adopt it. Of course, there were also appeals against, among others. I have the right to emergency contraception, and I have petitioned the Minister of Health to limit women's rights and leave the possibility to use emergency contraception. The coalition argued that broad availability of contraception combined with reliable education would contribute to reducing the number of abortions. It also pointed out that a ban on the sale of such medicines or a significant restriction on their availability could pose a risk to the health of those seeking emergency contraception outside the official circuit. Here you can also add that the whole thing about selling non-prescription pills was the operation of large pharmaceutical companies, which are driven only by the desire for profit. Suffice to mention that according to IMS Pharmascope in 2014, when the ellaOne tablet was prescribed, the annual consumption was over 10,000. Since April 2015, when it was available without a prescription, it was sold over 165 thousand in 2015 and in 2016 over 227,000 tablets. Twenty-three times the height. This shows that this tablet has no longer been an emergency contraception, and has become a systemic contraception for most women. Ladies and gentlemen, we can lie further, as we do. in the case of the claim that after the Smolensk disaster the State passed the exam, the Polish State. We can hide the truth that the main mechanism of the tablet after the day is just slowing down or delaying ovulation, and besides nothing happens. It's happening, ladies and gentlemen, because nobody really knows when this ovulation is. Some say the tablet is effective up to 24 hours after intercourse, others say it works up to 5 days. If so, it means that at that time ovulation may already have occurred, and therefore also fertilization of the egg cell. If so, the fertilized cell, and therefore the new human life can be destroyed by this pill. In this case, there may already be serious health consequences for a woman, as is the case after taking an abortion. The tablet also causes other side effects because it is a serious interference in the female hormonal system. It can result in a cycle deregulation and often serious fertility problems in the future. There are no studies yet on this subject, but all indications are that it will be. In addition, this medicinal product may cause serious drug interactions, which is why many contraindications have been included in the package leaflet accompanying this product. So there is not enough talk about very negative effects, including social consequences. The availability of pills on the market may encourage teenage girls to take risky and irresponsible sexual behaviour. Young girls who do not necessarily read the leaflets attached to the medicine have no idea about contraindications and side effects. However, fear of pregnancy can cause them to reach for ellaOne tablets without control, but repeatedly during the cycle. Unfortunately, also most women taking ellaOne tablets do not realize that it contains many times higher hormonal doses than other hormonal agents, that it can very adversely affect especially the young body, more than commonly used contraceptives. To use it without medical supervision The Ministry of Health couldn't agree with me. A wise state cares for the health of the nation even if individuals do not care whether they neglect it. And it is good that the Ministry of Health did not underestimate these reservations and, after an in-depth analysis of the situation, introduced a restriction on the availability of this product. Follow-up and follow-up That's what I think. The law on family planning, protection of the human fetus and conditions for abortion, because the effect of the pill, if fertilized, will lead to the death of a new life. In other words, in accordance with the provisions of the Polish Constitution, the well-established case law of the Constitutional Tribunal and the said law are then the killing of the conceived child, which, of course, remains under the protection of the law. I'm not gonna quote the Constitutional Court judgments here. Generally, in my opinion, the admission to sale of ellaOne pills in general, and especially without a prescription, clearly violates the laws in force in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u173	The next speaker is Senator Andrzej Stanisławek. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'm looking around the room and I see that the right age people are dealing with this bill. [[Thank you.]] [[Exactly.]] Discussion about this tablet, about hormonal action, about its specificity is appropriate for scientific conferences, not for the Senate. And at one point, I was offended by this discussion. The harm to hormonal drugs is known and knowledge should be disseminated. That is why I asked the Minister how many packs of birth control pills were released in Poland. Because these are millions of packages, ladies and gentlemen. In the first place, you are responsible for taking your medicines. Every drug has a side effect. I'm sure you'll be bored, but I'll read to everyone the side effects of aspirin or polopyrin, depending on the company, from two Polpharma and Bayer flyers. What are the contraindications? What can aspirin do to us? It should be clearly avoided during the first and second trimesters of pregnancy as it may cause foetal harm and lead to malformations in the child. The contraindication is gastric and duodenal ulcer, severe hepatic, renal and cardiac failure, bleeding disorder, thrombocytopenia, hypersensitivity to acetylsalicylic acid, history of bronchial asthma attacks. Do not use in children up to 12 years of age. This is Bayer. And Polpharma? Do not use in children up to 16 years of age. Contraindications: chronic respiratory disease, hay fever, nasal oedema, periodic breast-feeding, third trimester of pregnancy. Minister, I think this is another appeal made from this speaker to the Ministry of Health. Whenever a TV is turned on, hundreds of medicines are advertised without a prescription for such harmful effects. Not just one drug, there's hundreds of them. Last time I talked about it, I saw a painkiller in syrup for children up to 3 years old. Ladies and gentlemen, dear Senators, let's talk about something serious because politics is a fight for the common good of all women, of all children, of the whole nation. If we start arguing about one pill, we'll forget what politics is. As for the tablet we are still talking about here, it is on prescription in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Russia, Ukraine and Hungary. The side effects of this type of medicine should not be underestimated, but we are only talking about the ellaOne tablet, and the preparations about the same effect in the Polish pharmacopoeia are much more. We should keep them informed of the consequences of their actions, but I have confidence in our women. They are responsible and certainly make the right decisions, in harmony with their conscience and faith. And here's my opinion: you can't pass on the doctor's sense of responsibility for prescribing or not writing this tablet. You want the doctor to be co-responsible? What is the responsibility of a doctor who will not prescribe this tablet? What will this doctor say if a woman comes to him after a year and says, "You didn't want to save this pill for me, do you want to take part in raising this child and pay alimony?" [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, because of my sense of responsibility and understanding of the problem women have. It's not men, it's women. I make an amendment so that this record of a prescription tablet applies to young women, of whom both Senator Ryszka and Senator Czudowska spoke here. Let it be prescription until you're eighteen, because we all understand that parents should have control of their children, but over the age of eighteen, I would have held the whole society responsible. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u175	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Lech, Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u176	I wish my name was Lech, but I'm not. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm going to say this, Professor, Senator: I'm sorry, but I'm not going to say a single positive word about you, or you'll be thrown out tomorrow. And I'm going to end by referring to your speech. I think that the applause indicated that the policy is that we should ask ourselves these questions: why do we do this, who does this? etc. And if we answer such questions positively, then let us vote with knowledge, conscience, experience, etc. And we need political views to channel certain issues. This is Senator Ryszka, of course, involved the Smolensk disaster, combined with a pill day after... Well, Mr. Senator, great. [[A similar lie.]] I would like to say, in your own philosophy: it is because the Law and Justice love neither law nor justice. And now, going to the point... [[But he respects you.]] Me. Ladies and gentlemen, three levels of this bill... There wasn't much time devoted... Although Senator Czudowska may have given up even more than we said in the committee on what is the subject of this law, namely a law which in general in its parts, apart from the tablet, refers to issues relating to the functioning of various areas of health care... And it is important, as the senator said in her speech, to improve... it is important from the point of view of various types of events and needs of Poles in the field of health protection. I, of course, have some doubts as to whether an even greater allocation of the ministry's decisions improves the system or not. But these are doubts, this is not something that discredits a large part of this bill. If you are convinced, and after a while it will turn out that you were right, that centralizing decisions in the hands of the Minister in all respects, which Senator Czudowska mentioned, improves the system of accessibility, saving lives, helping people in need of help, well, that's all right. And this controversial medical point... As the Minister said at the committee meeting, a major revision of the pharmaceutical legislation is being prepared. And this is not about whether today is good or bad or whether tomorrow or in a few months discussing the entire pharmaceutical law would remove the odium from this discussion. No, I'm sure she'd be a lot alike. But it's different. The entire law on important issues and one provision on the amendment of pharmaceutical law pressed. It's such an old one-and-a-half year old method. We are talking about solutions that we are implementing, and we are going to press something by the way that the Constitutional Tribunal is not necessary in Poland at all, etc. And that's how you put in this bill a record of the tablet after day after day. And now just a little bit about the three spheres of logic of entering a record related to the purchase of the tablet only on prescription. As you have said fantastically Prof. Stanisławek and as Senator Ryszka also pointed out, we should go towards conscious decisions of parents, families and people who want to benefit from what we are talking about. Well, when we open the package leaflet of a given drug today, we'll see that there are a lot of side effects, harmful effects, it says what shouldn't be done, etc., etc. So if I'm gonna take anything and read the flyer, I'm thinking right away: I don't think it's worth taking it, because it has more side effects than... Thus, throwing away arguments about the harmfulness of the tablet is exactly such a mechanism. And I would like us, as wise men of the political world in Poland today, to sit in the Polish parliament, in the Seym and in the Senate, not to make conscious decisions for the Polish woman, for the Polish citizens. Because they will know what needs to be done, how to use this specialty, which has been authorised, as the Minister said, with all standards in the European Union. And what else is important? When we ask what it's like in other countries... Ukraine, Belarus, Russia and Hungary are mentioned. Well, you care very much about the second Budapest in Poland. And that's what you do in every field. I thought that although in the area of health care you would not enter the back door of this Budapest into Poland, but not, in Budapest it is prescription, it must also be prescription in Poland. This has nothing to do with what you said earlier. In many countries, a person who wants to buy a pill like this needs to talk to his pharmacist first. This person goes to the pharmacy, talks to the pharmacist, and this pharmacist makes a decision: sell or not. And that would be some sort of relaxation of that restrictive law that you want to introduce, and that would be a logical whole. After all, not long ago you said that you had to implement the concept of a pharmacy for a pharmacist so that this pharmacist could talk to the patient, advise him. The patient could come to the pharmacy and ask if he can take a tablet like this or not. And you say no, no, no, Mr. Farmaceuto, as far as this pill is concerned, we will not give you that kind of authority. We as senators, we're smarter and we know that a woman can only take it if she consults with a doctor, and it's with a doctor who doesn't apply a conscience clause... I think the argument that Senator Czudowska said was to prevent unthinkable sex... Well, congratulations on that argument. It's a good thing the Minister didn't share it. Now let's look at it from the point of view, I would say, everyday functioning. If in neighbouring countries it is allowed to buy after a conversation at the pharmacy or simply on the free market... Can you imagine that this law will have any effect beyond the start-up of the black market in this regard? I can read you the ads on the Internet: think faster than the Polish parliament will do, we will provide you with every number of these pills, etc. Well, we live in such a world that the state is not as capable as those workers during the industrial revolution to put this sand in the ground to spoil the machine. You will not spoil this mechanism because the Polish people were aware, they are and will be, and they will know how and when to use it. This is the direction we should consider. Polish citizens, Polish citizens will be aware of when and how to use this medicine. Now the medical issue, the third aspect. The Minister at the committee meeting yesterday confirmed the most important thing, perhaps the answer to the question of whether it is an early-restraint drug. As a non-doctor, I listen to those who are logically and unambiguously It is not haunted and right only to argue why this medicine is not an early-resistant medicine. The argument and the minister, and those who write about this tablet in this way, is coming to me. In public space, one of the representatives of the Polish right hand recently said in the discussion: it is an early resistive drug, because that is knowledge in public space. I would like you to avoid the argument relating to public space. I would like to say again: let us move towards conscious decisions made by Polish women. I'm not talking about the kids, Senator. I'm talking about Polish women. Whether we've been counting this since 16, 18 or 21 years is a matter of discussion. I'm not saying we encourage children to use... Another thing. Let's not create fiction. You said in your speech that if you acted against the law Homicide, theft, etc. We're branding... Yeah, but nobody in the European Union gives consent to this kind of action. Everyone around, except Bosnia and Herzegovina and the post-Soviet countries, together with Hungary and us... we're going to be at the top, which is going to have a fantastic black market and we... actually not us, because we're going to vote against it. We want to say that once again you want to tell Polish women: we will decide for you. And I would like to tell you that one day you will move to the decision of Polish women. Mr. Marshal, I would like to make a motion on behalf of the Senators of the Civic Platform, a motion to delete the article. Point 2 and Article 2. 14. It is about maintaining the existing legal situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u177	Thank you, Senator. I've accepted the motion. Please take the floor... [[Mr. Marshal, the senator would like...]] Senator, in what mode? [[In corrigendum mode, because Senator Czarnobaj repeatedly in his speech...]] Senator, I'm sure you'll have to give a few more speeches. Wouldn't it be better to include all this in your speech? [[No. I'd like to answer right away.]] There you go. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u178	Senator, I would ask you to read immediately the entire transcript of the discussion that has been held here and my report on the bill. Bringing my argument against free access to this drug to moral matters insults me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u179	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u180	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this discussion has been going on for some time. She was led in the Seym, and before that... This has been announced and such a long-term discussion has started. What exactly happened? I took note of the statement by Marshal of the Senate, Mr. Marshal of Karczewski, who in an interview with the Sunday Guest, said, as did Senator Czudowska, that he would apply a conscience clause and not prescribe this tablet. Note that a few doctors we have in the Senate have already said so. Perhaps there will be another person here who will apply a conscience clause in this case. Please note the problem a girl will have with getting to a doctor who will write such a prescription. Before this case... I think this tablet is not of an early nature, but it can have the effect that many other measures available on the market without a prescription can have. We didn't find out until now. Previously, we had an ideological action led by the Ministry and some places by the Church, as well as the wide web streams of Law and Justice, where people were told that this tablet was early-resistant. And here we haven't heard that sentence from anyone before. Nobody said that. We have realized today in this discussion, and I hope that most of us have realized that. That such action cannot be proved at the moment. No one called for any research to prove it. And you'd think that PiS was wrong, and once he started digging into the case, it turned out that the Internet machine, where they said that this measure was de facto like abortion or worse... This web-based machine triggered an avalanche that, as it were, forced you to put the project on the table as soon as possible. However, pay attention to the fact that you are no longer speaking as before. Previously, there were raised arguments about the early resistant nature of the tablet, and now everyone is talking only about hormones, about the fact that hormones are harmful, that there are too many hormones in one tablet, etc., etc., etc. Sort of a senator, Doctor. I'm addressing Senator Chudowska. It's kind of... You know very well that the market is full of drugs and no prescription, and prescription, which are very dangerous for pregnant women. Now I address Senator Ryszka, who has made us aware that young women do not read leaflets. What, old men read flyers? I don't know what's going on. I think it's an argument below the belt because you treat women, whether they're young or old, like some retarded species that the flyer can't read. In other cases, can a man read a flyer? Let's think about the absurdity we're coming to. I'm asking you not to treat women that way. I think any woman who buys something like this is capable of realizing the threat on her own. No one here says, Senator, that a high dose of hormones is indifferent to health. She's not indifferent to her health, but there's one side and... I think that in the case of a 15-year-old girl, because we're talking about 15-year-olds, the same huge problem as a high dose of hormones could be pregnancy. You know exactly how much hormone she's gonna get during pregnancy... If the hormones are the guilty ones, not the other things, the ideological ones. [[The tablet is not a hormone.]] I know it's not a hormone, I read it to myself, and I know it very well, but it's the country that used it, you're using the name "Hormony," you're saying that drugs that contain hormones should be prescription. That's what I've heard here many times today. [[You weren't listening.]] And please don't interrupt me, Senator. I will listen to you very carefully when you speak. And now, one more remark, because about those girls who don't read the flyers, I already said. Professor Stanisławek, aside from the fact that all of us here have been reminded of the age... I would like to say that this is the way it is, there are elections, there are elected senators and for example. Young people need to decide about old people's homes and older people It's about newborns. That's just the way it is. So that I think that Senator Stanisławek's attention was inappropriate, but very much there was what he said later, and I completely agree with him. I believe that he made all these arguments that should convince you, and he also pointed out some of what I was trying to do in my questions... proved that there was no logic in what you were proposing to us. In conclusion, I would also like to say something about a matter that is important. In his statements, Senator Stanisławek and Senator Czarnobaj spoke about citizens, i.e. they looked at the issue of this law from the point of view of the citizen, not their own ideology, their own views or their own knowledge. Sometimes I find it painful because people really refer to things read on the Internet, they can't even tell where they're read. I would like to say that the Internet is not a source of knowledge when making such decisions, because to check what side effects the drug has, many years of research are needed. So let's not use Wikipedia or the Internet in such respectable matters. It is also important to see this view from women, from citizens. Why am I talking about this? The point is to look at the women who have to make these very difficult decisions, and this whole situation can prevent them from doing so. 'Cause I think even the minister here said the sooner this pill gets taken, the less it's gonna hurt a woman when it comes to other things, just won't let an egg nest. Why am I talking not only about women but also about citizens? Well, that's what I always talk about. The woman is, of course, a victim as usual, but this problem also applies to men, because they should pay child support later or bear various kinds of benefits. So that I note here that this is a problem... that there are two people here, there are always two people here: on the one hand there is a woman who is left alone with all this, Mr. Senator, and on the other hand there is a man, because a woman is unable to conceive herself. I'm asking for reason. I am very pleased that Professor Stanisławek, Senator, has tabled an amendment, although I believe that it is insufficient. I will vote against this law, of course, but I will also say that the level of ideology and deception I have to use that word because this is what the narration has pointed out, and it tells us that you are less and less listening to what society thinks and says, or science, and that you are more and more guided by the opinion of some of the people on top or by ideology. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u181	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Andrzej Wojtyla.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u182	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I believe that this law deals with much broader aspects resulting from the amendment of the Public Health Benefits Act, but we focus on... this discussion actually affects one fragment, the one that deals with the changes in the Pharmaceutical Law. Senator Zdrojewska said that most of the participants are based on research, reports from the Internet. I will only resist research which results from reports and publications listed on the Philadelphia list. I have reviewed Medline especially since I do scientific perinatology myself and I would like to say that ulipristal acetate, which we are talking about, was registered by the FDA in the United States recently, in 2010 and by the EMA in Europe in 2009, and its operation is... It's a steroid hormone, a selective progesterone receptor modulator, SPRM, that's what it's called scientifically. Its effect is that LH, a hormone secreted by the pituitary gland, cannot reach the progesterone receptors, and progesterone is essential for oocytes, i.e. the egg cells, to mature and to be able to be fertilized by the sperm. All these other reports that tells me that the peristalsis of the tubules is increasing, that there is no... that the mucous membrane of the uterus is changing, resulting from the fact that there is no progesterone effect here because it is blocked. Of course, there are reports. It can be read in the Cochrane Library, which says that this is also the case... that it also applies to the fallopian tube and lining of the uterus, but I, who know about it, believe that this is due only to the fact that there is no progesterone. Senator Zdrojewska talked about the fact that in television programs, the media operates with the words of the miscarriage centre. Such reports are also in the publications on the Philadelphia list, but there are a minority of them. But they're there, too. This is a measure that has recently been registered, so there are still controversy and it takes some time to choose... to see what the dominant opinion is. That's the way it is in science, and it's nothing new. And I'm based on the data published on the Philadelphia list of 19 in the British Medical Journal, up to fifty in the case of The Lancet. But I would like to talk about another matter here, because I do not want to go into ideology, but based on data on the negative effects, the health impact on the use of these drugs and all contraceptives. Recently, the discussion on contraceptives has intensified. We in Poland believe that contraceptives are not harmful to health. As Senator Stanisławek said, there is no tablet that does not adversely affect health. Even the polypirin... It's best to be healthy and not take any pills. Then a man will be happy and will not be exposed to medication side effects. There are reports that using this tablet, which we are talking about, and all contraceptives, causes 3.02 times the incidence of ectopic pregnancies. These are the data that are published. And that is what we need to know that taking such measures is not indifferent to health. In the 2015 Scientific Reports, the impact factor of which is almost 6 is also referred to as twice the incidence of ectopic pregnancies when taking contraceptives. These modern drugs have low doses of hormones, but this Emergency tablet we're talking about here contains much higher doses of hormones. It should also be said that a medicine that has a similar effect and contains levonorgestrel is a prescription. Why is this medicine without a prescription, and the one that has almost identical effects, a prescription? Is this where... I'm thinking about what happened. Wasn't there some sort of lobbyist activity here? I tend to think that if you register a drug with some kind of mechanism of action... Why weren't two such drugs registered in Poland, only one? That's the question. Senator Ryszka spoke of infertility that occurs after taking contraceptives, including the one we are talking about. Senator Klich said that this is a single measure, which is why these side-effects will not be as wide as they are after contraceptives. Ladies and gentlemen, I am the author of this research. I made them in the Polish population, on a randomized group of 16,000 pregnant women. It turns out that such disposables do not take all women, just one chosen group of women and several times in their lives. These are the ones that... These are girls who are in a certain risk group. They take it a few times in their lives, and others don't do it at all. As far as efficacy is concerned, someone here said that the effectiveness of this tablet is 80%. It's not true, it doesn't confirm in any research. Just because a woman suspects she's pregnant doesn't mean she's pregnant. It's about... In order to get pregnant by the age of twenty-five, I ask you to wait five months for the statistics. After thirty-five years of age, if we want to get pregnant in marriage, we have to wait three years. It's not like every sexual intercourse ends in fertilization. It's not like if we're planning... Because it wouldn't be infertility, it would be pregnancy. Young people get married and often want to have a baby right away. Oh, nature isn't like that. You have to wait and try. And they're going on vacations, different... Ladies and gentlemen, the effectiveness of this tablet is approximately 40-50%. , not 80%. Otherwise, most situations where a woman suspects that she has to take this pill would not end in pregnancy. And that's what we have to think about, not say 80% effectiveness... There's no scientific research that's experimentally confirmed that says it is. Ladies and gentlemen, I am a doctor and I believe that this tablet, like other contraceptive pills, should be prescribed by a doctor, and most of the scientific studies conducted by scientists, serious scientists, indicate this. Of course, all the agencies you've been asking about... And they're a little political, too. However, if there are more such tests, it is likely that the use of these pills sold without a prescription will be restricted, so over-the-counter. There's more and more of this data, mostly from North America, because they have money to do it and they're doing a lot of research. And it's not true that in all the states in the United States this tablet is sold without a prescription because it isn't. About half the state seems to be non-prescription pills, but half the state doesn't. But we also have to say that... because we're saying that if we don't allow this pill, there's gonna be a lot of abortions. But, ladies and gentlemen, 80%. pregnancy in Poland is planned. And that's not true... In the United States 50% The pregnancy's unplanned, but we've got an 80% pregnancy planned for us. So why are they having abortions when most women are planning to have a baby? Ladies and gentlemen, there's no data on this. You're based on some popular scientific, pseudoscienceal data. Well, somebody's talking to themselves because they've heard that there's 50% in America. pregnant unplanned, and assumed that in Poland it was certainly worse. Well, that's our thinking. And that's not true! We're 80% women plan to become pregnant and become pregnant. Only 20% She's not planning on it. Plus, they're not young women, because most of the time a woman who's 40 isn't planning to be pregnant, and that's her third child. I have the scientific data that I published in the impacted letters on the Philadelphia list, and I did it at the U.S. public health conventions where I was invited. I'm coming soon, too, in November. So, ladies and gentlemen, let us rely on evidence-based data, on scientific data, not on data that result from some news reports, rumors, etc. Once again, I would like to explain that this tablet, like other medicines, should be prescribed on prescription, and that it, like all contraceptives, has its side effects. Ladies and gentlemen, I was at a conference in Wrocław the day before yesterday, Mr.Prof. Ponikowski, a well-known cardiologist, presented data from which it appears that in Poland more women than men die from cardiovascular diseases. And when I was in college, it was like one woman with a heart attack in the cardiac ward, then a whole year of medicine came to visit her, because then cardiovascular disease was a very rare phenomenon. At the moment, because of the mass use of contraceptives, this is one of the factors, because it's also that women started smoking and didn't smoke once... Well, there are many reasons. But the reports are also that. because women take long-term contraceptives, the number of cardiovascular events, heart attacks is higher in women than in men. That's what we're saying about breast cancer, which is nipple cancer. So far, we have fewer cases of breast cancer than in Western European countries. Why? Because here women are now 50 years old when they entered the reproductive age, i.e. When they were 23 years old, they gave birth to more children, they breast-fed, and they didn't do it anymore, so there are higher rates of breast cancer, and women were taking birth control. We've had fewer breast cancers for the time being. In any case, there is evidence that breast cancer occurs in a higher proportion, 3 or 4 times more often in women who have taken contraceptive measures than in women who have not taken such measures. And with us 10 years from now, when women who take birth control in mass will enter the age of 50 years old, the situation will be the same because the epidemiological trends are going in this direction. And we, the Senate, the High Chamber, should remember and consider this data. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u183	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u184	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is not easy to speak after a specialist like Senator Wojtyla, whom I once had the opportunity to cooperate with. I know, Senator, what knowledge you have, also because you've been Minister of Health twice. And thank you for not doing what the Ministry is doing at the time. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Ryszka's not here.]] [[EllaOne hasn't been there yet.]] [[Proceed.]] In reference to this statement by the senator, I would like to say that if... because I know that what you said makes deep sense. I'm also opposed to the fact that there's no control, because I understand that it affects other people's health. The problem is that a large part of this room does not have confidence in you due to the clause of conscience. Because if it were clear to us that these doctors weren't gonna say no on a conscience clause, and they weren't gonna block what was supposed to be normal, it would probably look a little different. Unfortunately, Senator, it is not clear to us. And now, first of all, I would like to agree with two statements by Senator Czarnobaj and Senator Zdrojewska. I'm definitely in favour, too, of as delicate a matter as it is... And we're talking about women's health. Of course, what you said must be taken into account, but I think it is a woman who should decide, especially a woman who has grown up. I totally share it. And I can only repeat these arguments. Senator Zdrojewska's opinion. Well, really, let's not treat these women as people who can't even read as much as they can even decide about themselves, because on this basis, as Senator Stanisławek said, we should make sure that even aspirin is prescribed. ♪ 'Cause if you read ♪ Senator Wojtyla knows that best. That every medicine you take while you're pregnant is dangerous... That's why it's important to be a pharmacist. After all, we both know that they have a code and know what to ask the person who comes to the pharmacy and says she has a headache. Well, that's the set of questions that should always be asked. This can be regulated at the level of pharmacists. Even in the current state of law, the pharmacist who is in the window has to ask all these questions. And as for what he said... I liked Senator Stanisławek's statement very much, especially because he once again proved that you can talk to the other side in a normal, unideologized way. I would like to add just one more argument, unfortunately related to Senator Ryszka's statement. I want to remind you of all the literature of the interwar 20th anniversary that Reymont wrote earlier. There goes the terrible problem of young girls who, despite their sincere desire, were pregnant. And I disagree, Mr. Senator, you'll be spoken out. We know that there are couples who are trying to get kids after 5 or 10 years, but there are couples who aren't trying at all, and... [[...20%.]] It happens. We're not talking about the 83%. Wanted, desired pregnancies. We're talking about the misfortune of women who got into unwanted pregnancy. That's why I didn't like what Senator Ryszka said, who referred to the concern about the health of a woman. I listened to Senator Ryszka and I'm convinced Of course, I'm not quite sure about that. That he is among those opponents of abortion who, if we had an abortion discussion here today, would probably say that even if the health of a woman is at risk, abortion is unacceptable. I'd rather it be women... that we leave this opportunity to women who could consult each time. Or a pharmacist or a doctor. They can always do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u185	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Napieralski. [[What about me?]] Senator Czudowska was before you, Senator? [[The senator was supposed to be at the end.]] Good. Senator Napieralski, you're welcome. [[Please, Senator. Ma'am...]] [[To sum up...]] [[Senator wanted to sum up...]] The transfer wasn't consulted with me, so... [[Neither am I. I'm sorry. It's...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u186	As Senator rapporteur, I would like to be able to listen to everyone and possibly comment on the statements of the senators in the debate. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start by commenting on the senators' statements. I hope that after listening to the speech, the specific lecture of Senator Prof. Wojtyla's resistance to the knowledge of the Senators of the Civic Platform has decreased significantly. Mr. Senator said that part of the room doesn't trust the other part of the room because of what we said or said. I would reject the ball and say that perhaps most of this room has no confidence in your arguments in this area. Viciousness for malice. You said it was a woman who should decide, and I'd really like to. I'm following what Senator Zdrojewska said. So that men also take responsibility for procreation and for the fate of women who will become unplanned pregnancies. Because it takes two people to make it a new life. It is a pity that the discussion about the contested law comes down only to the ellaOne tablet, as if there were no knowledge in Poland and there were no other methods in terms of family planning or methods of avoiding unplanned pregnancy. This pill isn't the only way. I'm sorry. I'll say it again. Senator Czarnobaj, of all my statements and answers to your questions, only caught this, in order to ridicule me, as I repeated after Senator Anders, and brought my statement, my concern, my medical knowledge for moral matters. It's okay. I'm very sorry about that, because... I'm not going to repeat all that synthetically about the tablet again, Professor Senator Wojtyla. Unfortunately, I will not support the amendment made by the Senator of Law and Justice, Senator Stanisławek, either, because... [[That's not good. That's not good.]] And I have an argument for that. But that doesn't mean I don't agree with him, that there shouldn't be so many free-handed drugs advertised on TV, though after every commercial faster. The formula is repeated more slowly: you must consult your doctor before taking this medicine. Is that it? There it is. Every commercial ends like this. But I'm also against many of those ads. And why don't I support this amendment? Well, patients, Polish women read leaflets. [[They read too much.]] The thing is, it doesn't all say in these flyers. [[They read too much.]] Here I have two documents... maybe not documents, too serious I call it, I have two information about ellaOne: the information that's in the box when the patient buys the pill, and the pharmacologic information. And here's the information: ellaOne is suitable for all women of childbearing age, including adolescents. A in the precautions in the pharmaceutical information ellaOne is already written like this: the safety and efficacy of ellaOne has not been established in patients under 18 years of age. It's a small difference for the uninformed, but for the pharmaceutical companies that might be thought in the future that the patients didn't get enough information and took a drug that they didn't know about, it's kind of like something that's defending them. I would also like to return to the comparison of the two medicines mentioned by the Minister, and the professor also spoke of it. Namely Esmya and ellaOne. Esmya is also ulipristal acetate, which is used to treat uterine fibroids. The cure never actually occurs, but the uterine fibrosis can be reduced to such an extent, such are at least indications that then the gynaecological surgery to remove the uterus with the fibroids is less risky and less incriminating for a woman. It is a drug, the same preparation... the same ingredient that is in ellaOne. Esmya is a 5 mg tablet, ellaOne 30 mg. And with a 5 mg tablet, yes, given a little longer and over the cycle for 3 months after 5 mg per day. It is stated that it is used in adults over 18 years of age and that a tablet containing 30 mg contains no such information, which is the same preparation, the same ingredient. The information on Esmya's tablet is about contraindications, it says that breast cancer, ovarian cancer, cervical cancer, uterine cancer is contraindicated. With an ellaOne tablet, six times the content of this substance, there is no such information. Therefore, a woman who is 18 years old if she does not receive such information from a doctor during an interview in the first stage of her medical examination before the doctor prescribes a prescription, she will not know it. If she didn't have a mammogram or an ultrasound, she doesn't know she has breast cancer yet undetectable, she doesn't know she has cervical cancer because she wasn't in a gynecologist, she doesn't know she has uterine cancer or ovarian cancer. So see this hypocrisy of the pharmacological companies: much information about harmfulness and contraindications in the case of a tablet that contains 5 times less active substance than ellaOne. Therefore, I will not support the amendment and I hope that the other Senators of the Health Commission will accept this argument if necessary. But, Mr Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I would like to conclude the debate on this bill with something positive. I'm going away from the ellaOne pill issue, because, as I said in the report, it's in all this great bill just to change one record. And I'll read it now. I think I've still got some time. Something I would like to keep in our consciousness so that we can bring hope to doctors and patients who are waiting for emergency access to drug technology. Art. 47d: In the event of a reasonable and resulting from the indication of current medical knowledge, the need for the recipient of a medicine which is not financed by public funds in a given indication, where this is necessary to save the life or health of the recipient in the indication in individual patients and has already been exhausted from the recipient concerned, all publicly funded medical technologies available in that indication may be authorised by an administrative decision to cover the costs of this medicine in the context of emergency access to drug technology. 2. The Minister responsible for Health may issue further authorisation to cover the costs of the medicine as part of emergency access to the drug technology for the purpose of the same provider, I would prefer the word "patient' as a continuation of the treatment, provided that the doctor has confirmed the medical specialist appropriate for the illness or health problem of the recipient of the treatment with the medicine concerned by the first authorisation. And lips. 5 of this article, there are others along the way: an administrative decision on the issue of consent is subject to immediate feasibility. Do you hear a lot of people? I'm gonna say it again. It's about foundations, about the fact that there's $30,000 missing on the drug, there's $10,000 missing on the drug that people collect, there's foundations, there's picnics, there's whole cities, there's a lot of housing that activates to bring relief to the sick. Let's take a look at this and go to public opinion. And before you reject this bill, think about what you're rejecting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u187	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Grzegorz Napieralski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator! I would like to start by saying that I lack one element in your thinking or in this philosophy of approach, the most important: sexual education. Because if you're talking about this knowledge, about unwanted pregnancy, about what's really going on in a woman's body, then you have to teach a young man, a girl and a boyfriend at school, what really happens in their bodies, what happens when they mature. In fact, we need to bring into school information about what might happen when there is closeness between a girl and a boyfriend, because we know exactly that nature has so equipped us that these hormones that we're talking about, at a young age, are just buzzing. And the fact that a young man doesn't have that kind of information, especially in those environments where he doesn't have access to knowledge, then it results in the fact that there's a lot of unwanted pregnancies. And there is a very big problem, not only with the birth of a child, but also with his upbringing. And it is often difficult to demand, Senator, from this young man, from a girl, from a boy, maturity. It is difficult to require such a full commitment to the upbringing of a child when they are not fully mature. But no one told them, didn't guide them. No one even said that when it gets close, and when it gets close to each other... Because they think that love is great. No one said there were methods to protect themselves from unwanted pregnancy. No one teaches them that, and they have no access to knowledge. In fact, from this you should start your change and in general change the system of thinking about what is happening in the Polish society among men and women. That's the first one. Senator, it's not there, and it actually makes us have discussions that are barren. If... Because you like it so much... Senator, I'm sorry I'm just referring to you, but you were just speaking. If you show such data if you read the flyers... If you had read the data on the introduction of sexual education in highly developed countries, which you often rely on, you would have seen exactly where sexual education is well prepared to be clear: she doesn't have to call herself that at school. The sexual initiation of young people is delayed by at least a year and a half. A year and a half minimum. So we can presume, guess that a young man is no longer so young and is more aware of such decisions. Then he knows exactly what method of protection against unwanted pregnancy can help him. And that's what I'm paying attention to. But with you, it's not in your thinking system. And that's too bad, Senator. It's a pity, because nothing really happens if we educate ourselves about our body, about what's around us, about what's happening to us, what's really about our sexuality, about our body. It's a pity, because it actually leads, Senator, to a big lie and to big problems that follow the fact that there is no sexual education. Second thing, and it's very important. There is a lack of sexual education, there is a lack of real information about what is going on when it comes to medicines in Poland. I've had this adventure lately... Adventure is maybe a bad word. I've had an accident like this. Well, I'm at my doctor's first contact. We're talking about different diseases. I turn to my problem as I have, and the doctor shows me one of the ointments that can normally be bought at the pharmacy, and which is for the treatment of nail fungus today, it turns out that the fungus is at all one of the major civilization problems. It shows me the composition of these ointments and various preparations, and they are saturated with very different substances, which used to seem to be very dangerous, important, powerful, important and only prescription substances. Today, when science goes very far forward, when technological advances in medicine are so great And let me remind you that you're referring to technological progress, and you're actually referring to a changing world. When we can examine very carefully the individual substances that are in medications, and know exactly what their consequences are... On the basis of these laboratory tests, carried out also by the state institutions in the countries concerned, decisions are made that different medicines are allowed to be sold without a prescription because they are needed at a given point in time, because they are fighting against civilizational diseases, they are fighting other diseases. I don't know why you want to stop selling this pill. I did not meet with any data that the Polish women started using this tablet somehow on purpose that something bad was happening that there were health problems with these pills. Senator, ladies and gentlemen, many times we make a decision, a conscious decision, treating all kinds of diseases and taking much higher doses of hormones just to treat diseases that really affect us. I have such cases in my family • drugs are taken that help actually in very serious medical conditions, but have their side effects. And the decision that is made by a person is absolutely conscious, because it extends life. If we read... I am now, as you said. It was an interesting speech. I've been going through websites, but not some websites to which we may have reservations, but some very serious web portals. And in these portals I read information just about the pills, the pills after a day is called variously. And in every major web portal we read one thing: that this is really an emergency concept that is, to be honest, used by a woman when she feels that something happened the wrong way she planned. It's not a pill someone takes passionately just so they don't get pregnant. It's used because there's been other events. I don't want to describe them now from the Senate podium. That he and she weren't prepared for. It's also like this, Senator... And I have participated in a number of debates on this subject. It's not always a woman's decision. I mean, the decision to take a pill like this. But often men and women. Very often, partners decide together that, in case something happens that they don't plan... They can't afford another child or they don't want that child because they already have two or three children they love, so just in case of danger or so-called. The breakdowns decide on this tablet. And since in most countries of the European Union state institutions, in fact governments of countries, allow this pill, saying yes, it is possible for us to take this tablet in an emergency situation, then why should it be different in Poland? I remember... That's an interesting story too. My constituency consists mostly of small towns. Apart from Stargard and Świnoujście, big cities, these are small towns. And I remember that time when, for the first time, there was a serious debate about an anti-abortion law that made these laws harder and introduced powerful punishments. It was just a time of various kinds of spring and summer picnics, which were organized in these small towns. Well, I have to tell you, men and women were very concerned there. They told me something interesting that I never noticed. Well, all these very restrictive rules. And the record about the tablet after the day is restrictive. In fact, they will hit them, in small towns, in small towns, because there is a problem with access to a doctor, especially to a specialist doctor. There is also less awareness of the various processes that occur in society. It is actually a little harder than in big cities, such as Warsaw, Szczecin or Gdansk. And when you take the opportunity... And imagine a rape situation in a small town. We often read about it on web portals, see it on TV or hear it on the radio. Something's happened. After the disco, after the party. Well, that's what happens. We know it's coming, so let's not hide it. And then what? We're just gonna convict a woman of unwanted pregnancy because she was raped? I don't know why you're so obsessed with this one drug that serves you today to do this whole political debate, and you're not looking at it as a whole, starting with sexual education. It's not just at school. But also from the full information that should be available. After all, we know that if you want to talk about hormonal contraception, you go to a gynecologist and write it down very carefully. Tests are performed and your doctor prescribes a medicine that is taken very often, cyclically. From that day to that day, you swallow it every day. We know exactly what other methods of contraception are about. This tablet In such a dose, not another dose, it is an emergency tablet. However, I ask you to listen to us, because even in your environment there are, as you can see and hear, doubts about this. And, please, pay attention to these doubts, because there is no point in conducting an ideological debate. We are talking here today about the fact that all Poles and Poles feel safe in this country, and have a feeling that our homeland is modern and open and that it cares for us regardless of which side of the political scene we look at it from. And I feel like you guys are just trying to lock us in the cocoons. It's such an ideological approach, not necessary at all, because contraception really doesn't do anything wrong, it doesn't break any laws, it doesn't destroy any values. I don't know why suddenly such an attack, why such dislike, why these arguments that this pill poses a threat to a woman. Well, you pulled out those flyers yourself. If we read all the flyers that are in the medication today... Each drug has its own contraindications, and each leaflet shows the risks. So, do we have all the medications pulled out of the sale today? I'm talking non-prescription drugs, not prescription drugs. Buy yourself vitamin C today, aspirin, the various medications we're taking, magnesium... [[Painkillers.]] That's right, painkillers. Well, let's read these flyers. Because I don't want to quote it or quote it anymore. And that's why I'm so surprised that this is how you approach it. We've been discussing the pharmacy bill in this room lately. You pointed out that the pharmacy for the pharmacist is the best solution for everyone. Why? Because only the apothecary knows what's best for us, for the patients. Perhaps so, perhaps not. But I can tell you one thing: when I go to my pharmacy and go to the window... And it's not just because I'm a recognizable person and a politician, it's the same thing with every other person who comes up to that window. When someone buys a drug or asks for a drug, someone on the other side gives him accurate information. I've heard it many times, and I'm sure you've heard it in this room too. We can do such an experience today that each of us will go to a different pharmacy today and ask for a cure. Prescription, no prescription, stronger, stronger... And if we ask around the pharmacy, every pharmacist will answer. And the same is true for the tablet after day. The pharmacist will also inform us of all its consequences. [[Mr. Senator...]] Yes, Mr. Marshal? [[...you've used your time.]] Yeah, that's what I thought. I would like to thank you very warmly, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, thank you so much for listening. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u189	Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u190	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Of course, I am directing these words to Senator Chudowska and to all senators. I would like to say, Senator, ladies and gentlemen, after Senator Wojtyla's speech, that I assure you that our resistance to knowledge has not moved. We just don't have the ability to know. We simply absorb this knowledge always and willingly of all speeches, and professors, and senators. I would like to call on you to increase your ability to listen to what the Polish people say as part of this increase or decrease of different kinds of immunity. Just listen not only to one of the radio stations, but also to 5 radio stations in Poland. And listen to what the Polish people say about this tablet and all about this road. [[Which radio station?]] I forgot. That was first of all. Secondly, I would like to say that the speeches by the senator, Professor Stanisławek, and the senator, and Senator Napieralski confirm my thesis that, on such a level, we should have time to talk in the framework of a comprehensive pharmaceutical law law, etc. I mean, we have time. And it happened that the state in the important bill, which was mentioned by the senator, in addition to the very important elements of this law, you type in one element concerning the pill day after day. And this is disturbing, not only to us, but also to a large part of Poles, who read, listen to the discussion we are having here. And lastly, I would like to say this: Mrs. Senator, I would like to address you personally. I am absolutely not going to quote that sentence because it may be the least important here. The impression is more important. Because the impression is more important than the facts. [[It shouldn't be like this.]] It shouldn't be like this, but unfortunately, Mr. Senator, it is in life. And if you have the impression that I wanted some elements of quoting you or not quoting you, more or less precisely, ridicule you, then I would like to say that this was absolutely not my goal. That's one thing. And second of all, even if it did, I'm sorry. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u191	Thank you, Senator. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u192	The floor will be taken by Marshal Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u193	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Senator, rapporteur! I listened to you with great attention and respect. Whether I like your views or not, I was happy to listen to your very thorough answers to the questions that were asked. I also listened to specialists, especially doctors, and I would like to say that... I want to thank the PiS for this bill, especially for this part about ellaOne, which is the pills after the day, because this is a proposal Only restrictions, and yet you could propose a ban on this pill. When you hear these voices, in fact, in addition to 2 speeches, you can consider that basically you should ban the use of this pill, and here you are proposing only a restriction. Well, it's a restriction in a way that doesn't make any sense using this pill. If this pill isn't taken day after day or two after... After the prescription is written by the doctor, it will basically be a pill a week after. [[Applause]] [[Why?]] Because you have to stand in line and sign up for a doctor. This is not a life-threatening or health-threatening situation, so not immediately... This is a week after or maybe even 2 weeks after. Therefore, the use of this pill no longer makes any sense. Well, it could be that someone's precautionaryally stocked up early... But it's a pill to prevent pregnancy in unwanted situations and therefore surprising and unforeseen. A procedure has been applied here, with which we are dealing from time to time on the occasion of general laws, very broad and necessary, non-controversial. This controversial issue is so written that if someone hadn't pointed out what it was about, it would have been impossible to see it at all. The new provision of the article. Article 23a (2) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1a is replaced by the following: "The authorised medicinal products indicated in the Summary of Product Characteristics for use in contraception shall be subject to the availability category referred to in paragraph. Point 1 of the second paragraph. We in the Senate know what's going on, but the layman won't know... It's hidden, it's just hidden in this bill, the bill, as I say, needed. The argument I've been listening to is clear to me. The argument and the whole discussion were focused on whether it was an early-poron pill or not, or a contraceptive. After listening to the speeches, especially the doctors, it's clear to me that this is not an early resistance measure. This is a contraceptive. These unfair arguments that other hormonal contraceptives, which women have been using in Poland for probably 20 years... They used to be very fashionable. I think they're less fashionable now. It's about the common ones. This hormonal contraception is harmful, too, so where's the logic here? If both the pill after the day, and contraception, and hormonal pills are harmful, then you need to think about reducing this and that, and the Minister wants to limit only the new measure that entered the Polish market. For me, too. I also think about the future, every politician has to design the future, think about what happens next. What was that? Well, it was that the PiS government withdrew from in vitro funding, what the Platform government had previously introduced after long discussions, including here and inside the Platform. He's withdrawn from in vitro funding. Now he's pulling back. That's what you gotta call it. The use of pills after a day, because this is how it should be assessed. The day after the pill, which is used a few days after, no longer makes any sense. I'm afraid... Because there are voices, and I agree with that, it is also my voice that hormonal contraception is harmful too. But I'm afraid to talk about it, so as not to suggest that this birth control must also be prohibited. Or limit it. So, what direction are we going? Is this an analysis from a medical point of view, or are we pursuing some kind of ideological vision? There's gonna be a new center in a minute, because science doesn't stand still. Do we want to block it out... And yet a situation that, I think, is extreme, fortunately, is not so common. In a rape situation, if this pill isn't used, if a woman, a girl doesn't have the opportunity, she won't make it, then what remains? Abortion remains, which is acceptable in these three cases. In three cases She hasn't yet been banned from the Anti-Abortion Act, because it's an anti-Abortion Act. Pregnancy in a situation of crime, namely rape, incest and incurable fetal defects, may be discontinued. So all that's left is an abortion. I'm just paying attention to those who, of course, want to block the entire abortion, that they're going in that direction. And in this case, it will only be possible. Regardless of how I feel about this law, in this situation, if there is no restrictive amendment that I can agree with. I think it would be difficult to accept prescriptions for women up to 18 years old. We didn't create such a situation that, having a bill, a big and important bill, we're just discussing it. We didn't create this situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]] Please take the floor of Senator Waldemar Kraska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u194	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! I wasn't supposed to speak, I'm a doctor, but I'm a surgeon, so my knowledge of gynecology and obstetrics is certainly limited. But I was provoked by the speech of the marshal. Mr. Marshal, you are misleading Poles in your speech, because it is not true that access to a doctor in Poland at the present time is between 3 and 5 days, as you said. If anyone wants to go to a doctor, to his family doctor, he can do it every day. And when it comes to afternoon hours, when the family doctor no longer accepts, it's called. Night and Christmas medical care, available anywhere in the country, and within a few hours you can go to a doctor and get any advice. So I think that by saying what you're talking about, you're misleading the Poles and you're just saying, Mr. Marshal, you're not really. About the next vote that... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[There you go, there you go.]] ...the subject that was also raised by your senator in the previous speech, about the fact that it is the partners that sometimes want to go to the pharmacist and ask him if they can take a pill like this or not to take it... Just, ladies and gentlemen, you're denying yourselves a little bit. Two weeks ago, when we had a pharmacy bill for pharmacists, there were voices in this room that actually why a pharmacist at the pharmacy, it's enough that there's a seller, he's gonna sell everything, just like medical knowledge tells him to, so the pharmacist shouldn't actually be in the pharmacy. At the moment, you're saying that it's the pharmacist who's going to be the person who's going to give advice and encourage you to take a tablet or keep it from it. The next thing we're not talking about here is that this tablet contains a powerful hormone dose. Let's assume that a young person within a week had 7 sexual intercourses, every day, and takes one of these pills every day. Do you know what a devastation it is for this young woman's body? What effects can she have in her later adult life when she wants to start a family, have children, and have problems? We don't ban this pill. We want access to the tablet only on prescription after talking to the doctor first. I can't imagine a young person talking in the pharmacy about their experiences to a pharmacist when there are 20 people in line. I can't imagine, Mr. Senator, standing at the pharmacy at the window talking about things like that. And you say the young couple will get information from the pharmacy. So far, all birth control pills have been prescription, and this drug has been excluded. I think it's a good idea to go back to making it a prescription, too, and I think after many years, after a while, You will also admit that we were right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u195	Thank you, Senator. [[He'll pay and find out.]] Please take the floor of Senator Napieralski. Five minutes, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u196	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, Mr. Senator, please do not mislead Poles and Poles and do not lie, because no one has spoken during the pharmacies debate about the fact that we do not want the pharmacists to be in the window. That's not true. [[That's what happened.]] Oh, no, no, no. We were talking about something else. We wanted a competent person, a well-educated pharmacist, to work in the window, in the place where we give the prescriptions and take the medicine. We were just talking about how managing a pharmacy as a building, a place, as a company could be in the hands of another person. That's one thing. Secondly, I like to rely on different stories and call again . à speaking of access to specialists. I'll tell you my story. [[Another specialist.]] And the gynecologist is who? A doctor of first contact? [[Voice from the room: But any doctor can...]] [[Any doctor can write that prescription.]] [[Voice from the room: Every doctor.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen... [[Even a surgeon can write that prescription.]] But let's be professional. After all, when we come to the doctor's first contact, he'll send us back for a prescription for the gynecologist. I'll tell you a story quickly, like... The senator says we're gonna call the doctor, sign up, and in a minute, I'm gonna say the service is done, which means there's gonna be a meeting with a specialist. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[There doesn't have to be a specialist.]] But I'm gonna tell you about the specialist, just to be clear. [[You're the reformers.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] Well, the story I'm going to tell happened... [[Voice from the room: Excellent.]] ...has happened recently. [[I see Senator Rooster is here. Well, I hear, I hear...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I'm sorry, I've been here since the beginning, Mr. Marshal.]] [[I hear you. I hear you.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[You're welcome. Please don't disturb me. The senator has five minutes, and that's soon.]] The story I'm going to tell was already in the rule of law and justice, recently concerning a specialized examination of the knee, but first the ultrasound. An orthopedician who only accepts me after a month, because that was a free date, which I thought was a success, directs me to an ultrasound, upstairs. I'm glad I'm getting a referral, and he says, "I'm not writing you another appointment yet, 'cause I need to know when the test is going to be done, please come back when you set the deadline." I'm going to see a specialist. It's May. The one who takes these pictures in the same building. The lady from behind the desk says: Okay, July 22nd. Well, that's an interesting date for me, to be honest. I say, okay, July 22nd, I'll come. But I hear no, no, you'll call me on July 22nd because we're just getting started. This is such an anecdotal parable, but it really shows where we are when it comes to specialist doctors and research. Once again, Mr. Senator, I repeat because I think Marshal Borusewicz has touched a very serious issue. And as I said before, in many countries it is available without a prescription and is treated as an emergency, in fact it is an emergency because we need it suddenly. She actually works under certain conditions. And let's keep that in mind. And I'll tell you at the end, Mr. Senator... It is today and, as I said before, we can do this experience. Well, let's go to the pharmacy. I haven't met at the pharmacy yet with the situation, so that when someone asks something, the pharmacist doesn't answer, advises, tells, doesn't tell, tells us about the particular case we're asking about. There's no pharmacy like that. Even if there's a line... [[I guess we're not asking.]] Okay, but it's up to us to ask. But if we ask, in every case, the pharmacist answers. And let me tell you, I thought it might be that when a politician comes in, he's treated differently. No, the pharmacists treat everyone equally, no matter who asks, this answer is simply given. If anyone wants to ask, they're gonna ask and they're gonna get that information. Today, and these are actually the most important words of Marshal Borusewicz If you enter a prescription, this tablet will make no sense, especially in small towns and towns where access to a doctor is very difficult. And don't tell me here in this room that if someone suddenly needs a pill like this, they're gonna call, they're gonna have a fixed time, and they're gonna have a prescription right away. Mr. Senator, there's one more thing at the end. Because the duration of action of this tablet is very short, and we know exactly what we are talking about in this room, it is true that the gynecologist who would like to write us this prescription will not perform any tests either. He can only have a short conversation with us, get a brief information on the state of our health, a conversation that a pharmacist at the pharmacy can also have. Well, because he can't afford to spend any more time doing that big analysis. So the prescription is really going to make this pill unnecessary at the pharmacy because no one's going to use it anymore. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u197	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Raphael the locksmith.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u198	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet.]] [[There you go, Mr. Senator.]] I am speaking because of two things which I believe did not sound strong enough during today's debate, or at least have not been confronted with another position. But to begin with, I would like to address Senator Grzegorz Napieralski's voice. Very interesting, by the way. And it's like he's connected this issue that we're talking about today with the issue of sexual education. I expected that, but I'm sure you'll be surprised at the article in The Times today. In the UK, the number of pregnancies among minors has fallen because there is no money available for sexual education. This is today's article, I recommend. Sometimes it is worth looking at these matters in this way, whether by chance we are not driving some unfavorable processes. Now these two things I've been talking about. Several times, without developing an argument, there has been a charge against this change, that it is an ideological change. I have, I would say, the same observation, only the other way, so to speak. Because of ideological reasons, this tablet was introduced as a medicine available without a prescription. Since the State did not develop this issue, only a theme of the Church appeared in the statements of Senator Zdrojewska, I will not develop it either. But we can really talk about this for a long time about why there is also an ideological basis for this type of action. The second issue that you also tried to solve: abortion or contraceptive. I reached out to the material that Princeton University published to promote emergency abortion among students and to expand their knowledge. This material was developed by scientists who declared it is very important because we still have a problem with it. That there is no financial interest in defending the position for or against these medicines. These scientists... I will only mention one sentence here: that the woman using this preparation should be duly informed We know that the category of patient's informed consent is very important in medicine at the moment, but it must be known that the tablet prevents pregnancy primarily by delaying or inhibiting ovulation or inhibiting fertilisation, but it is not scientifically possible to exclude the fact that it can inhibit the implantation of the fertilized egg in the endometrium, i.e. that it may have an abortion effect. So let's just say that every woman or girl taking this drug should be aware that the potential abortion effect is not excluded here. For many women, it may matter. Ladies and gentlemen, this issue, in my opinion, is cardinal. We have repeatedly compared this medicine with contraceptives and other medicines that are not prescribed. We also talked about the side effects of this drug. Now let's say This is a key element of what is the proper effect of taking this medicine, not by side. What's this drug fixing? What is the health effect of taking this medicine? We have such knowledge of painkillers or oncology medications. What's the health effect here? Well, there is no health effect on taking this medicine. In a healthy woman, it causes interference. This is the primary effect of the drug. If we're dealing with a healthy woman and this healthy woman is supposed to be taking preparations... As Senator Napieralski mentioned, the responsible state should take responsibility for its citizens, in this case women, the act of withdrawing this pill from the counter, from the sale in the OTC formula is an expression of the responsibility of the state. Because a healthy woman reaches for this remedy to disrupt the body's function and pays for it with side effects. At this point... [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: What about the psychological, mental, life side?]] ...our country should protect this woman from the rashness of such decisions and, through a doctor, provide her with arguments as to whether she should reach for this measure or not. It's not ideology, it's a step towards rationalism. And I thank the Ministry for taking this step. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u199	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators Kaminski and Komarnicki made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that Senator Stanisławek and Senator Czarnobaj have submitted legislative proposals in writing. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Marek Tombarkiewicz: Thank you very much.]] No. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Health Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Geological and Mining Law and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 516 and the report of the Commission In print No 516 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u200	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The combined Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation leaned over yesterday's... [[I can't hear you.]] [[Mr. Senator, you can pick up the podium. The whole platform can be picked up.]] Now. The Commission discussed the amendment of the Geological and Mining Law and some other laws consisting of the implementation of the Polish directive of the European Union, which aims to reduce the risk of a major accident during exploration, exploration and mining activities for hydrocarbon deposits within the limits of marine areas, so-called. offshore directives. The mechanisms put in place ensure environmental protection and improved safety. Mariusz Orion Jędrysek, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Environment present at the meeting of the Joint Committee, discussed the bill in a complementary manner, with no result on the part of the participants of the meeting, including the senators, questions or willingness to discuss. The chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation Andrzej Stanisławek asked for the bill to be adopted without amendments, and the senators unanimously supported this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u201	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for the Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Orion Jędrysek: Maybe briefly...]] Yes? [[Voice from the room: No...]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Orion Jędrysek: No.]] Not necessarily. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There you go. [[There's someone willing, Professor...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Excuse me, but I have a question.]] Do what? Please. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u202	As a geologist, I am very pleased that this bill has come to our deliberations. I only have one question for the Minister: why now, why so late? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u203	You're welcome, Minister. Just a quick question, so you can answer from the spot.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, the answer is simple. The deadline for implementing this directive in Poland, in general in the countries of the European Union, was 19 July 2015. It wasn't done. After the change of government, summing up some, let's say, arrears, we started preparing this project. And as much as you can do in, say, a year, from the government came out. I think it's pretty soon anyway. That's all.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u205	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the financing of the common agricultural policy. The text of the Act is contained in print No 514 and the report of the committee In print No 514 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Józef Łyczak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u206	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Senate Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I have the honour to present a report on the work of the committee on amending the Act on the financing of the common agricultural policy, Senate printing No 514, Parliamentary printing No 1481 and 1503. The draft law amending the Act on the financing of the common agricultural policy is due to the need to allow the planning of expenditure from the state budget for pre-financing for local government units and government administrations which run agricultural schools for the implementation of operations under the "Knowledge Transfer" action and information activities covered by the 2014-2020 RDP. The Sejm passed a law at its forty-second meeting on 25 May. It's a government project. The Senate committee met yesterday, 30 May, and adopted a law without amendment. In line with the proposed rules on financial support under the 2014-2020 Knowledge and Information Exchange action, support for vocational training activities and skills acquisition is foreseen to be provided for training operations aimed at the development of the professional knowledge and skills of farmers or forest owners in the field of agricultural and forestry activities. Training activities will in particular cover issues related to the management, technology and organisation of production on the farm, including organic production, labour safety, marketing, accounting, farm insurance, the use of information and communication technologies, cooperatives, the creation and functioning of producer groups, shortening the food chain. Training operations under this sub-measure will be carried out in the form of courses, trainings or workshops. The draft law in question does not change the beneficiaries of the RDPs 2014.2020, but merely grants the public and local budgetary units the power to pre-financing operations carried out. The law amends the article. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act of 27 May 2015 on the financing of the common agricultural policy and provides that the State budget for pre-financing of eligible costs is to receive not only those units of the public finance sector which carry out technical assistance operations, but also the state and local budgetary units carrying out the operations under the "Transfer of knowledge and information activities' action. The reimbursement received from the State budget in accordance with the amended Article. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Act on the financing of the common agricultural policy, the funds received from the paying agency for reimbursement of eligible costs from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development should be made within 10 days of receipt of those funds into the current account of the revenue of the relevant national budgetary unit. I ask the High House to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u207	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There you go. Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u208	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, I have such a question, Mr Senator: did you at the committee's meeting discuss the impact of the system which is responsible for the transfer of direct payments to farmers, in this context, in the context of the amendment of this law? Is this a problem, or does this amendment affect... Is there any correlation between the direct grant payment and the system? Will this system have a negative impact on the implementation of the provisions of this law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u209	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, during the committee's work there was no talk about this, but I do not think it will have any influence.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u210	Thank you very much. I don't see any more questions. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Jacek Bogucki: No. Thank you.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I can't see. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the legal protection of plant varieties. The text of the Act is contained in print No 512, and the report of the Commission In print No 512 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Tadeusz Romanczuk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u211	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Law amending the Law on the legal protection of plant varieties adopted by the Sejm on 25 May 2017. The Sejm passed this law on that day and directed it to the deliberations of our committee. The Commission leaned over it yesterday. Two amendments were tabled, which were proposed by the Legislative Office. They were adopted unanimously. And after the re-vote, the bill... After the vote, the draft resolution was adopted by the committee and addressed to the High House. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I request the High Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u212	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I can't see. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. [[No one signed up.]] I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act on amendment of the agricultural tax law, the Act on local taxes and charges and the Law on forestry tax. The text of the Act is contained in print No 515 and the report of the committee In print No 515 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Tadeusz Romanczuk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Report from the two joint committees, i.e. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration concerning the Act on the amendment of the Agricultural Tax Act, the Act on Local Taxation and Charges and the Forest Tax Act adopted by the Sejm on 25 May 2017. Both committees leaned over the content of this law today and bring to the High House that the High Senate should approve the attached draft resolution. I would just like to point out that there has been a very short discussion and actually not on the merits of the bill, but on whether to bring it in or not. In relation to the votes of 8:6 both committees decided to recommend the High Senate to adopt a resolution on this content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u214	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators can report no more than a minute of questioning to the Senator of the rapporteur. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u215	I'm short. Senator rapporteur, does the amendment of the law change the agricultural tax or not? Is that what's left of the constans?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u216	No, it doesn't. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u217	Thank you very much, Senator. I don't see any more questions to ask. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Maritime Fisheries Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 511, and the report of the Commission In print No 511 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Waldemar BMS, to submit a report to the committee. [[We have to wait.]] [[He's coming, he's coming.]] [[But neither does the minister.]] Mr. Senator... [[Let's go to the podium.]] [[Waldek's ready.]] ...you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u218	Mr. Marshal, yesterday, a committee meeting was held on amendments to the Maritime Fisheries Act. None of the members of the committee had any objections to these changes. It can be said that the bill was adopted unanimously, 1 Senator abstained. We are proposing that it be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u219	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators can report no more than a minute of questioning to the Senator of the rapporteur. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. At present, senators may submit no longer a minute's query to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[No.]] I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. [[There's no one...]] I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We've already considered point eight. [[Yes.]] And the ninth? [[And nine o'clock tomorrow.]] [[Voice from the room: Point three tomorrow morning...]] I'm ordering a recess... [[We're still on the news.]] I'll see you tomorrow, 9:00 a.m. But also the messages you're going to read, Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Messages. The meeting of the Health Commission on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws, Senate printing No 517, will take place today immediately after the announcement of a break in Senate sitting in room 176. Joint meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance on the examination of applications for the Act amending the Act on Pension Supply of Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guards, Government Protection Office, State Fire and Prison Service and their families and some other laws, Senate print No.506, will take place tomorrow, i.e. June 1st, 8.30 p.m. in room 217. The meeting of the Legislative Commission on the first reading of the draft resolution on the recognition of the merits of Professor Zbigniew Brzeziński for the Polish State will be held today, immediately after the end of the session in room 179. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-31-senat-42-1.u221	Thank you very much. And now the break I announced earlier, by 9:00 a.m. tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 16 minutes 57]]
