ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on Mr Elżbieta Borowska, Ms Monika Wielichowska, Mr Małgorzata Golinska and Mr Łukasz Schreiber to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Elżbieta Borowska and Mr Monika Wielichowska. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Elżbieta Borowska and Małgorzata Golińska. I ask the Member to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 9.15, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 9.30 a.m., - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 9.30 a.m., - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 10, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 10, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 10, - Legal notice - hour. 10, - Administration and Home Affairs together with the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy - ca. h. 10.30, i.e. 1 hour after the end of the votes, - Economy and Development - h.m. 11, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 11, - Infrastructure with the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry - h.m. 11, - Culture and Media - hour 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - Public finance - immediately after the votes, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 2.30 p.m., - Senior policy - h.m. 15, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 16, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 16, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 16, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 16, - Extraordinary deregulation - hour. 4:30 p.m., - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 5:30. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Solutions to Drug Addiction Problems - hour 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Africa - hour 11, - Parliamentary Group for: people with visual impairment - hour 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Defence of Polish Self-Government - h. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Organic farming - hour 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Group for: regulation of the pharmaceutical market - h. 16, - Parliamentary Group for: Privatized Hospitals - hour 16, - Parliamentary Group for: Integrated Multidisciplinary System of Prevention, Diagnostics and Treatment of Cancer Diseases in Western Poland 17.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u3	Thank you very much. The Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry Commission submitted a report on the Senate's resolution on the Act amending the Nature Conservation Act. This is print number 1525. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Public Finance Commission submitted a report on the Senate's resolution on the Act on auditors, audit firms and public oversight. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that the Sejm should also listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Mr Stanisław Huskowski, near the European Union of Democrats, is now making a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to ask the marshal to announce, in accordance with the rules of procedure, the article. Paragraph 184. 3 item 1, 15 minute break at the request of our circle, the circle of the European Union of Democrats, and to convene during this break, which is no longer part of the formal application according to the Marshal's teachings, but what I wanted to ask of your marshal, the Senior Convention, which would put on the agenda a point: a report or explanations by Minister Błaszczak on the behaviour of the police yesterday in the evenings in Kraków Przedmieście. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! Another one took place in Krakowskie Przedmieście, i.e. 85th, Smolensk monthly. Groups of citizens associated in several associations: TAMA, OSA and the Polish Nationals, tried to demonstrate disagreement with the violation of the law and, in particular, the violation of the Law on Assembly. Such demonstrations shall be prohibited in connection with the entry into force of the new Convention Law. The citizens of the Republic of Poland took with them, carried white roses. [[Mr Stanisław Huskowski shows a white rose]] The white rose, according to what the president said at yesterday's assembly, is a symbol of hatred and stupidity. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The police ID'd and logged dozens of people yesterday. Is this supposed to be repression similar to the Polish People's Republic's repression, when the legitimacy was just one of the tools of the Civic Militia... [[Voice from the room: you fired.]] ... serving to discourage citizens from right and civil behavior? Second, the police stopped a few people and they weren't scumbags, they weren't scumbags, they weren't scumbags... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: They were, they were.]] ...only they were people often from Warsaw's intelligence, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Maybe from Żoliborz, [[Applause]] Maybe they were also Żoliborz gentlemen, but certainly - people who had the courage to oppose the wrong law and exploit the Smolensk tragedy for political purposes of the PiS. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u5	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u6	Mr. Marshal, I'd like a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u7	Thank you, sir. I've heard of these events. [[Blaszczak, disgrace!]] From a formal point of view, I would ask that the circle, however, make an official reference to such a letter... [[With a note about a break?]] ...because it concerns the agenda, but its extension. That's what we talked about the day before, which is the day... There was no such request at the Bureau meeting. Home Minister Mariusz Błaszczak wanted to take over...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My previous speaker, saying what he said, supports violence on the streets of Warsaw. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Yesterday, a group of people suffering from hate... [[You're sick of hate.]] ...she tried. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] block the celebrations connected with commemorating the victims of the Smolensk catastrophe. [[Exactly. Exactly.]] They hate it. [[Applause]] Therefore that they try to prevent, try to block celebrations that are of the nature of prayer, which are religious meetings. [[Prayer to the president.]] Four people were detained yesterday - two people charged with breaking the article. 195 Penal Code, so just disturbing ceremonies that are religious in nature... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Smolensk religion, yes.]] [[You're the religious union?]] ...and two people because they violated their personal immunity, including [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] The man you support, Mr. Huskowski, struck, used violence against the hero of the independence opposition of Mr. Adam Borowski. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly!]] [[Voices from the hall: Disgrace!]] The disgrace is that in this courtroom you support violence. And this is indeed a disgrace. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[Voices from the room: ONR, ONR, ONR!]] [[Don't point fingers, don't point fingers.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u9	Thank you. There is a request for a break, although I understand the justification, but Mr Huskowski... [[Vote from the room: A motion against.]] You don't need a motion against it. The motion will be decided in the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 384 Members voted. There were 139 votes against - 242 and three abstentions. The motion was rejected. Please, I repeat my request to Mr Huskowski to make an appropriate letter to me, and I will pass it on to the internal affairs committee. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has submitted a report on a government draft law amending the Law on the National School of Judicial Affairs and the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Law on the System of General Courts and certain other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, objections were raised to the completion of the agenda for a second reading of the project. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government bill amending the Law on the National School of Judicial Affairs and the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Law on the System of General Courts and some other laws, prints No 1406 and 1519, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 390 Members voted. 224 voted against 166, no one abstained. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. I propose that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Law on the System of General Courts and some other laws (prints Nos 1406 and 1519). I ask Mr Mark Ast to submit a report to the committee. [[Game in the O.R.]] Please, ladies and gentlemen, please leave or please just sit down. [[That was a very valuable remark, Mr. Marshal.]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u10	Good. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ah, your marshal. I'll start again. [[Game in the O.R.]] I can start, right? Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to have conversations in the cockroaches or take a seat in the benches, because we will not hear a report on an important justice project. I therefore ask for peace in the Chamber and for this report to be heard.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u12	On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Law on the System of General Courts and certain other laws, prints Nos 1519 and 1406. The Commission of Justice has set up an emergency subcommittee to consider this project. The extraordinary subcommittee considered the bill at its meeting on 8 May. Indeed, it was the very intensive work of all the members of the committee. During the subcommittee meeting, 23 amendments were considered, which were proposed by the government party, amendments which aimed at improving this project. We have also considered a lot of legislative and editorial amendments. As a result, the subcommittee report could have been considered yesterday. More government amendments were also being examined yesterday. On the part of the Members of the opposition, proposals were also made for changes to this project. First of all, I would like to thank you very much for all the constructive proposals that have been made to the project and for this determination to prepare the report, because the project is indeed urgent. This regulation is expected by the hearers of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, and the referees of the court, and the assistants of the judges. The law is extremely necessary and therefore this urgent procedure was very, very justified in this case. Therefore, on behalf of the committee, of course, I ask the High House to adopt this report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u13	Thank you, sir. As the Marshal said earlier, and I merely remind you, the Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item he would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Waldemar Buda to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome. There's no envoy. In such a... [[Voices from the hall: There it is, there it is!]] Oh, I'm sorry, but unfortunately the screen is blocking this part of the room, so I didn't see you coming. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u14	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Law on the System of General Courts. Ladies and gentlemen! The project is a thorough reform of the rules of the judicial profession, including the functioning of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. So far we have been dealing with an unacceptable situation, because of the high cost of the school's operation, but it did not translate into a judge's nominations and indeed training of future judges. I would like to point out that between 2013 and 2015 of all applicants, who were almost 300, only 19 graduates of this school, became judges, were appointed judges. So we had a very expensive system which, as a result, did not fulfil its task of training judges. Our proposals, the ministerial proposals in this area, which, of course, we support, are changes in order to introduce and establish a judicial asessor, a judge, can be said to be a test which is intended to significantly strengthen the judicial staff and contribute as a result to speeding up proceedings, to closing the congestion that we are dealing with today in the judiciary. The rules concerning the performance of tasks by the judicial applicants have also been re-established. They have been given specific powers to attend hearings and perform certain proceedings at the hearing, which should be assessed very positively, because the simulations of the hearings that took place at the national school will not replace the hearing, but will not replace the questioning at the hearing, which is to be the subject of the applicant's right at the moment. I am also very pleased with the amendment that I presented in the committee concerning the powers of referenda and the assistants of judges in terms of their ability to take the judge's exam and as a consequence to obtain the appointments of judges. In the original form of the law, it was assumed that there were about two years for these people to take the exam. In agreement with the Ministry, we have tabled an amendment which extends significantly until 31 December 2023. Therefore, all those who are already assistants and referees today will be able to take the judge's exam freely. If they pass this very difficult, very complicated exam, there will certainly be a way to get a judge's nomination before them. For all these reasons, the Law and Justice Club supports the bill and will support it at further stages of its work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u15	Thank you. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u16	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill regulates two extremely important levels of the Polish justice system. First, significant changes are made to the functioning of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Secondly, the institution of the judicial assessor is being re-regulated. These changes as a whole, which I would like to stress very clearly, must be assessed critically, because they lead to an unconstitutional increase in the influence of the Minister of Justice on the functioning of the Polish judiciary. The starting point of the proposed amendments is the adoption by the Ministry of Justice of the concept that the judicial application run by the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, and then the judicial assesura, will be the main and preferred way to hold the judge's office. This makes it difficult for legal professionals, judges' assistants and referees to do so, even though they can present long-term work and legal experience. While, as far as the very essence of this idea is concerned, it is possible, of course, to argue with the arguments for and arguments against it, but to put it under a number of controversial rules, it is a pre-conceived criticism. This is not my isolated opinion, but it is the result of many of the legal expertise presented in the draft. I am also saying this to draw the attention of the representatives of the Ministry to one important fact which, I believe, you are completely overlooking. A group of highly capable, hardworking and ambitious young people who will be good prosecutors and judges in the future are taught at national school. However, the proposed changes will cause you, as graduates of the application, as assistants, to have a patch of persons acting on orders, in agreement or in dependence on Minister Ziobra. This will certainly not increase the confidence of Polish citizens in the justice system. However, in order to achieve such a strict political goal, you do not consider how much harm you can do to these young people as well. In this context, it is critical to assess the solutions contained in this bill, stating that it is only the Minister of Justice and the Head of the School, which is, of course, directly subordinate to the Minister, will have a total and exclusive impact on the functioning of the school, the selection of staff and the course of application training. As a result, the role of the Programme Council has been marginalised, which should in fact be the main advisory and advisory body. Furthermore, the impact and role of external legal environments, including in particular the National Judicial Council, which upholds the independence and independence of the judiciary, have been even dangerously limited. In the course of the Justice Committee's work, the Civic Platform has tabled amendments to improve these rules, but they have been rejected without further reflection. As I mentioned at the outset, in addition to the changes concerning the application of the judge and the national school, the bill is re-regulated by the institution of the judicial assessor restored after a few years of recess. According to the rules adopted by the PO-PSL coalition, the judicial advisor, as the person empowered to settle cases in court and deliver judgments, should be appointed as judges, i.e. by the President at the request of the National Judicial Council. However, Minister Ziobro proposes that it should be for him, on a one-man basis, to appoint the assistants and delegate them to the duties of judge. This solution is clearly in breach of Article. 10 and Article 10 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). 173 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland constitutes a threefold division of power and separation of the judicial Such dependence on the Minister of Justice by judgment of 24 October 2007 of the Constitutional Tribunal was found incompatible with the Constitution. Minister Ziobro and representatives of the Ministry are certainly familiar with the content of this ruling, but this solution is being introduced again with premeditated intent. It is also important to look at this draft law as part of a larger and broader whole. At the beginning of his term of office, Law and Justice made a reform whereby Minister Ziobro became the superior of all prosecutors in the country, making Poland an absolute exception among the countries of the European Union. A few months ago Minister Ziobro increased his powers over the directors of all courts, i.e. those responsible for administration and finance. The Sejm already has draft laws on amendments to the National Judicial Council and gives the Minister of Justice the exclusive right to fill all the positions of the Presidents of the General Courts. However, this bad bill can be saved by changing or removing controversial records. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform makes further amendments to the bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. President, who signed this? This must be signed by the President or by the person empowered to sign. [[Good.]] If it's not a legible signature, at least it has to be a stamp or I won't accept it. [[While I'm still discussing it, I'll deliver it.]] Yes, this must be done by the end of the discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Jachnik on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u18	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, Kukiz15 in his election programme predicted and promised the citizens that he would put justice under their control and cause them to participate. Meanwhile, all three legal acts, the present one, the National Council of Courts, as well as the system of common courts, have once again resulted in people being eliminated from the influence on the justice system. Please indicate to me where in all these three laws, and also in this, any influence on the choice of the judge has the citizens at which point in time any influence in the formations of the judges. They could have citizens. In time, the Ministry of Justice favored the case of a judge of peace. Meanwhile, there is silence about the judge of peace. The judges still won't be responsible for anything under this bill. And what's most weird about all this is that the justice committee, which worked almost 18 hours, because first within the subcommittee and then the committee, suddenly started to be compatible with all the clubs, starting with the PiS, through the Modern Platform, to the PSL, that this law should be prosecuted. Well, Mr Sanocki and I, on behalf of Kukiz,15, have applied to reject this law in its entirety, because it simply cannot be rectified, ma'am. We've been cluttering and trying to convince the designers that it's impossible to educate and teach a judge. As Mr Sanocki rightly said, it is possible to teach even a capable scoundrel, but he cannot judge. On the other hand, we took the road without any discussion. At least I am surprised that in the case of all other laws, the opposition says that we want a public consultation, we want to talk to the citizens, what they say. In the case of this law, however, no. Even a moment ago, I heard that this bill could still be improved. This bill can no longer be corrected, ladies and gentlemen. This bill is wrong. There must first be a discussion with the public, which model of the judiciary we choose, which way we go, and not on a school of judges production. I repeat once again, because I have already said this in this Chamber, that the war between the entire opposition and the PiS, apart from Kukiz,15, is about one fundamental goal, who is to have control over the justice system. According to the PiS, this is to be done by the Minister of Justice, according to the opposition it is to be done by the National Judicial Council from their appointment. And that's, in general, the difference. However, no one is thinking about repairing justice in accordance with Article. 4 the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. We have heard many times in this Chamber, how the Ministry of Justice, through the mouths of its Vice-Ministers, referred to the article. 4 the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Tell me at which point this article is being implemented. There isn't. Therefore, apart from school and knowledge, a judge is required to experience life as well as judicial experience. Well, the courtroom is a dynamic room, things happen. A person who may have the greatest knowledge can turn out to be a very weak judge in the courtroom. I'm also asking you about another case. Well, we give these judges unlimited at once, i.e. In fact, a life sentence, a position as a judge of the court. He can only get promoted. What will happen if 20-30% of the judges are unable to pursue their profession when adjudicating after the period of application? How do you predict the path of their cancellation? That's not the way. So we're gonna be preserving those incompetent judges who, even after how many years they're gonna be promoted. Well, that's the practice. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's unacceptable. If we were talking about judges for rehearsal, then we could talk about it. Therefore, on behalf of the Kukiz club15, I apply to reject this law in its entirety. Under no circumstances will the club support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u19	Who signed this? [[I signed it.]] [[Vice-President.]] Vice-President. In fact, Grzegorz Długi. I've already read it... I'm not gonna say what word I would normally say because it's a seym. But I read that name. Now on behalf of the Club Modern Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz. But before that, two words to correct your speech. Unfortunately, I have to do it from here because I'm in session. Mr Kukiz15, you were present in the Committee on Justice, and you know very well that it is the Modern that has requested consultations because of the fact that this is the way it is. An application has therefore been submitted which has not been accepted. That's one thing. Secondly, this today's proposal, this today's opposition to putting this draft on the agenda of the sitting, also made a modern statement with my voice. Therefore, it is not that you only want to consult or disagree with the speed of running. And now Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz. You're welcome. [[Your Marshal, in the mode of correction, because the Member is misleading the room.]] Mr President, if you sit quietly in the courtroom, I will acknowledge it and point to the moment when I will give you this voice. And now Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz. [[You can't do that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u20	Mr. Marshal! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The primary and most important task of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office should be to train judges and prosecutors. Of course, this has a direct bearing on the exercise of justice. Only judges with the highest and systematic professional qualifications can guarantee citizens the proper implementation of their constitutional right to courts. Unfortunately, however, the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office is another piece of legislation which was used by the PiS and is aimed at subjugating the judiciary of the executive authority. PiS policies simply dream that the submission of future judges will start at the training stage. Zbigniew Ziobro wants to decide the judge's fate from his first exam to his retirement. Designed changes are simply addictive, subjecting the national school to the Minister of Justice. How, what changes do the State make regarding the appointment of a director of the court? Now, without consulting the National Judicial Council, the Minister of Justice shall have the right to appoint a person acting as Director. The Programme Council, of course set up by the Minister for Justice, consists of 12 members appointed by the Minister, including five directly, one representative of the President. What kind of changes? The participation of the National Judicial Council was limited from three representatives to one member. Interestingly, the Council will also lack representatives of liberal professions, and the number of members will increase precisely from political nominations. Why doesn't the Minister of Justice want them on the program board, for example? President of the Supreme Bar Council, President of the National Council of Legal Counsels or President of the National Council of Notaries? Is the Ministry afraid of social control, afraid of discussion? Another change concerning the fact that the Minister of Justice has a binding right to object to candidates for teachers at school. Of course, there are no indications on the basis of which this binding opposition is to function. This is an unconstitutional solution because it will bring about total freedom and limit the constitutional right to public service for citizens. Moreover, the Director appointed by the Minister will appoint a coordinator of the classes to align the teaching content of the classes and the way in which the tests are assessed. In practice in Poland, under the PiS rule, this means that there will be no room for substantive discussion at the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, disavowing views or being able to judge them by the applicants, because it will be the Minister who will determine one right doctrine. Further amendments concern, for example, the composition of the examination committees, of course, appointed by the Minister of Justice. So far, a representative of the National Judicial Council, that is, the institution that is to uphold the independence of the judiciary, has been a member of the composition that could act as an examiner. Now he's just gonna be an observer. The subsequent changes that you are making, the subsequent solutions adopted in the Act, such as the lack of restrictions on the number of vacant assesor seats announced, will actually give the Minister of Justice any opportunity to control the stream of candidates for judicial positions and, in extreme cases, completely exclude the supply of personnel from outside the circle of persons who have passed school education. Thus, the Minister of Justice may restrict, in fact, the part of the statutory regulation that gives universal access to the public service. Further solutions are changes that concern court assessors, fundamental solutions for this law. Their only goal is, in fact, to make the assistants dependent on the Minister of Justice by the fact that the Minister will be able to appoint assesors, appoint assistants to serve, actually entrust the assistants with the duties of judge or take the oath from the court assessors. Yes, an active politician, yes - those who will rule justice will take a vow to the Minister of Justice, an active politician. This is a solution which is contrary to the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2007, but also contrary to the Article. 10 and Article 10 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). 173 constitutions. It is according to them that the judicial authority is a separate and independent authority from other authorities, and the authority to uphold the courts and the independence of the judiciary is the National Council of the Court of Justice. High Izbo! The independence of institutions that train future judges is as important as the independence of the judiciary itself. Unfortunately, the proposed law is only another step in increasing the political influence of PiS politicians on the judiciary. I'm making amends. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u21	Thank you. And I will ask Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u22	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to present our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on the National School of Judicial Affairs and the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Law on the System of General Courts and some other laws contained in print No 1406. This project is undoubtedly part of a broader policy expressed in a whole range of legislative projects aimed at taking over judicial control by the executive authority. In this context, the statement which the previous speaker, Mr Jachnik, put forward seems crucial: this is another moment when we are discussing a debate of quite essential importance, i.e. which in Poland we will adopt a model of supervision of the broader judiciary, the justice system. In fact, there are three possibilities here: the model so far, by virtue of the 1997 Constitution, i.e. guaranteeing the judiciary maximum autonomy, and it is very strongly emphasized in many places in our constitution; the proposal which I often mentioned by Mr Jachnik expresses, i.e. a number of changes to be made in order to give maximum to the public this control, and the third model pushed by the current parliamentary majority, by the Minister of Justice. And maybe I'll say unpopularly and not politically: there's nothing wrong with it, you have the right, it's one of the possible models, although, of course, it doesn't remind us very well of the various historical experiences. But there is one thing you lack, which is and would be necessary to make these changes, i.e. the constitutional majority. Unfortunately, you are keying - this is another approach, because we have a whole series of projects submitted recently, two of them have fallen out and were to be proceded at this meeting of the Sejm. However, without amending the Constitution, you do not unfortunately have the title to make such changes, although - as I stress - this is one of the options that are to be considered. But this should at least be slowed down at this stage, and perhaps - the council, you can accept it, you may not accept it - somewhere with the constitutional referendum announced by your President in recent times should be at least a debate and an attempt to find a parliamentary majority, a constitutional majority. This, too, would probably be a problem here, because rather the constitutional majority for submission to the executive judiciary will not be found by the state. Really key by means of successive laws to make such major changes in the model of the functioning of the judiciary, seems to be a way that may not be doomed to failure, because, of course, most of the parliament can do everything that you have often expressed... But first of all, you are putting justice and justice at risk in this case, because there will always be a patch that will be more or less malicious to you, maximum politicization, submission to the judicial authority of the executive authority. This will also, unfortunately, give rise to more votes - for the time being, not to the consequences going further - also international ones, because it is a model in Europe, a standard, such a standard, guaranteeing the judiciary maximum autonomy, and on different levels, including this stage of allowing for a judge's career, which we are now working on. And thirdly, it will be mostly harmful to many who create this judiciary, because they will work in the shadow of a certain political atmosphere. There's no way out of this. These threads, [[♪ The bell ♪]] may be general, make the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party not see the possibility of supporting the project in this form. Of course, we will look at changes at the next stages of our work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u23	Thank you. And I will ask Mr Janusz Sanocki, a non-member, to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u24	High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The political change that took place in 2015, me and my environment have adopted with great hope, hoping that the Law and Justice will remove numerous pathologies from our public life. Among those who were particularly interested in me as a social activist, were pathologies in the justice system: bad actions of Polish courts, prosecutors. We were counting - and I, and my friends, and many Poles - on the fact that PiS will make a radical, thorough change based on principles, respecting principles. Pathology in the Polish justice system comes from breaking the fundamental moral, ethical, but also political principle, which is the sovereignty of the nation, the sovereignty of the nation over every authority. That's what art says. 4 Polish Constitution. The sovereignty of the Republic of Poland is exercised by the nation - either directly or through its representatives. There's just gotta be a check somewhere. In democracy, the nation is the body that controls power. The judicial authority is the power. It's not just a profession, it's a profession: a judge. This is above all public authority. Some absurd, caricature is to say that education can be developed and that education is the only criterion for taking over, having that power. It's just absurd. To every thinking and experienced man, it is simply the absurdity of such a belief that one can develop, learn, know all the rules and then be a judge and judge, because in order to judge, one needs an ethical foundation. He doesn't come from passing exams in front of a professor at one school or another, and he comes from checking a man in his life in different situations. Therefore, it is absurd that a 27-year-old person after school, after an application, without experience, without any examination, only a closed body's decision gets as much power as the judicial authority and its execution. Now, ladies and gentlemen, all our hopes that the Law and Justice, Minister Ziobro, will change this, are slowly turning into ruins, because from the project to the project you can see, as philosophy, the thinking of Minister Ziobra is far from such an honest, fundamental view of this matter. Unfortunately, I say this to my friends in PiS with great pain, Minister Ziobro clearly does not fix justice, but takes justice under his control: the prosecutor's office, the courts, what can be controlled, we will personally control. Dear friends of the PiS, stop this action because it's bad for you. It destroys all your successes in other fields. This is a very important field of our public life and cannot be made of caricature. After all, the caricature is what you're presenting to us here. Yesterday 10 hours, the day before yesterday something like that, the Sejm, the committee, the experts were discussing the color of the card or the shape of the diploma. Ladies and gentlemen, this is just some caricature of parliamentarianism and the reasonable people I know are doing all this. Absolutely not allowed to agree with that. In the case of judicial authority, it is necessary to start with a general debate, general principles and the adoption of how to establish social control, whether it is direct elections or indirect elections, where citizens are to be, to control whether there is to be a jury, or whether there is to be a judge of peace, how the judge is to be controlled. Meanwhile, the proposal for a national judicial school whose very existence is some kind of freak... Maybe in some other legal environment, etc. Makes sense. In our legal environment, in our structure, it's just that you can get educated as a judge. Then let's do a national school of Members and Senators and educate people to be Members, be appointed for life and sit here, be peaceful, and there will be no political upheaval. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask my colleagues in PiS to stop this joyful work of Minister Ziobra, because this is an action aimed not at repairing the justice system, but at corrupting it, to take control of it. By the way, it's an unrealistic idea that one man can effectively control all these giant trials in a great country, in these thousands of courts, no one can do that. We need to heal the mechanisms, we need to create healthy mechanisms, because we have repeatedly argued that this unitary authority leads astray. I'm going to vote against, and I'm asking that we start to think seriously about fixing the state not for the sake of the party, which maybe will fall apart tomorrow, because these parties have already flown so much here that this is an eternal change, so it can't be done in terms of the good of the party or the party interest, it has to be done in terms of the public interest and the common good. I'm against this bill, and I'm asking my pissants to withdraw it, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u25	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. Six people are on the list. Would any of you like to join the list? No. Then I'm shutting her down. Question time is 1 minute. You are starting with Margaret Navel. Before he asks a question, I'm going to Kukiz.15. Mr President, we are changing the letter because it must be signed by the person empowered to submit it, and you are not in this group. Therefore, a new proposal will be made by the end of the discussion and we will, on the basis of this proposal, complete the previous proposal. Please, Madame, ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u26	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The National Judicial Council will, in accordance with these amendments, be deprived of its influence on the appointments of an asessor. It is a far-reaching limitation of the judicial self-government, which points to the unconstitutionality of the changes being made. According to these changes, the assistants and judges will be graduates of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, supervised by the Minister. Court posts will be awarded without a competition. Minister! Isn't that a violation of the principle of equal access to public service? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u27	Thank you. Mr Waldemar Buda, Club Law and... The Civic Platform. [[Voice from the Chamber: Law and Justice.]] Oh, and I started with Law and Justice, but someone wrote me that you're an PO. [[Absolutely.]] [[He's on duty.]] I'll fix it. Law and Justice undisputedly. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u28	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, I would like to ask the Minister whether he is a supporter of peace judges and such solutions that give more power to society in the justice system. Moreover, would he be willing to appoint even Jerzy Jachnik and Janusz Sanocki to those judges of peace if only this were possible in accordance with the current constitution? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u29	Thank you very much. I'm sorry again, but it's just a piece of paper. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr... The next question will be asked by Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u30	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Young People at the Gallery! I have a brief but very reasonable question: Why was the new composition of the Programme Council of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office deleted from the liberal legal professions: the Supreme Bar Council, the National Chamber of Legal Counsels or the National Notarial Council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u31	Thank you very much. I invite you to the speaker of the Member of the Kukiz Club15 Jerzy Jachnik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u32	Minister! I have one question, also short: were there any research done by the Ministry of Justice on the model of the adoption of solutions in the justice system, i.e. this model of the crown of the professions, e.g. This model through school? And the other thing. Your marshal, we just had a chance to see a typical judge in you. You're not telling the truth, you're misleading me, and you're not gonna let me correct it yet. Well, you didn't apply to reject the bill or to discuss the law, others didn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u33	As for whether or not I was going to give you the right to correct it, you beat me to it, but now that you've said it, I don't have to give you the time in this situation anymore, but I was going to give you the time in the end. That's what a marshal's for. So you've already exhausted your motion for corrigendum, and I don't have to consider it. Mr Piotr Kaleta, the Law and Justice Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u34	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mr Sanocki! Janusz! You know, we are already here in this House for a while, you know very well that when it comes to any idea of improving the law, improving the functioning in any area of life that is being conducted in the High House, it is necessary and necessary for this to be done as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, lately I've been doing some statistics like this in my election office with my assistants, and it turned out to be a good case of 95%. The parliamentary interventions I have are complaints about the action of the judiciary. [[Yes.]] It's just scary. 95% intervention in my parliamentary office is complaints about the functioning of judges and lawyers. Therefore, the question is simple, Mr Minister: Is there any chance that [[♪ The bell ♪]] The bill that we're looking at today will make these interventions in my parliamentary office less or no more? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u35	And Mrs Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club, but I do not see your Member, this time for sure. Therefore, we conclude and close the list of questions. [[It's me, it's me.]] But you have not entered the list of questions. [[I'm just running to sign up.]] You're welcome, but it's an exception because there aren't many of these people. [[Your marshal, I guess I'll be there.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] No, no, it's one question that closes everything. You asked such a general question that you can answer all the questions. [[But at the same time, so specific.]] Mr President, please ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u36	Peter dear and all of you, yes, 90%. I have a question for the Minister if he is aware that this bill is making a bigger mess and it will be 110%. intervention in the Member's office... [[Impossible.]] ...some will come to Mr Kaleta twice, and all others. I'm serious right now. Ladies and gentlemen, please don't take this as a joke. Let us not play with this subject, we must not approach such an important sphere of action as the justice system. The changes should be preceded by a serious debate. That's not there. The project and the state are being thrown in for good intentions, colleagues, you support it because it's yours and so on. Don't do this. Please, really, please, 'cause this is a mess. You're gonna ruin it. Nothing's gonna change, because we're just messing it up so that the Minister takes more control of the judicial school. This control, rightly so, at this moment the opposition, the Messenger of Modernity, criticized, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And she hit it right there. So tell me if this is about more control.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u37	And that was the last question. Now please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Łukasz Piebiak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u38	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for these questions. One at a time, just like I wrote it down. Mrs Płępka from the Platform asks why this law deprives the National Council of the Court of Justice of its influence on the appointments of judges. Well, we're not denying the simplest possible answer. However, another institution is the institution of the judicial assessor and another institution is the institution of the judge. Even with regard to the competence of the judicial assessor, he will not have all the powers enjoyed by the judges and very well. For example, family matters require not only great legal knowledge, but also some experience. In family matters, it is difficult for an asessor to gain experience in the real life of his family. Therefore, there are some exemptions and we are not talking about changing the position of the KRS in relation to judges. With regard to the assessors, of course, this change of authority occurs, for a very simple reason - that is the constitutional right of the National Judicial Council to those who are to be judges, and so will be realized, and yes, but after the period of asesura, when something can actually be said about it, before making such an important decision, which is the granting of a lifetime nomination. Asesura is the time to test in battle and for this time to test in combat de facto all environments, and political, and judgely, appealed. It was not the Government of Law and Justice or the United Right that restored assesura, but the previous coalition, the Platform - the Polish People's Party, that was the expectation. Besides, it was the expectation expressed by the National Council of Courts, by the judges' associations, etc., that it would take time to test itself in battle, because not everyone who is a great lawyer, here this thought from the lecturer, is suitable to serve as a judge. Mrs Navel's next question, what about constitutional access to public service, what about Article. 60. Very well with this access, there is no contradiction in the project on which the High House is proceeding today, with the article. 60, because there are different ways to serve the judge. This is just one of the roads, of course preferred, and also completely open. You can take an exam at the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, pass it, get there, pass a difficult training phase, pass a difficult judge's exam. If anyone's good enough, he's gonna be a judge. There's no contraindications and there's no art. 60 constitutions have no excuses. Mr Waldemar Buda, from Law and Justice, asks whether I am a supporter and whether the ministry is a supporter of the concept of the courts of peace and whether Mr Jachnik we would call - it is such a provocative question, I understand, part of the question, because I assume that the concept of the court of peace is precisely an influence of society on the entry into the judicial service, i.e. the de facto choice of judges of peace, and whether Mr Jachnik or anyone else would be elected or not, it would be decided by the local community - yes, we are in favour of this concept and consider it very interesting, we consider it to be right in its assumptions, but we all know in this Chamber that this concept cannot be reconciled with the rules of today's constitution. If this is the will, not only of the United Right Camp, but also of other political backgrounds, in particular the Kukiz environment has opted for such work, then the constitution will have to be changed. I think that if this condition is met, it will be possible to introduce an institution of the courts of peace and see what the democratic choice of judges looks like and whether it is really better than what we have today or what we propose. With regard to the question of Mr Rometsky of Kukiz, why we remove representatives of the liberal legal professions from the Programme Council of the national judicial school, the answer is very simple - because there is a principle of reciprocity here. There are no authorities involved in training future lawyers, counsellors, notarials or any other judges or prosecutors, and no one's wearing clothes for this reason. For what reason are representatives of the bar, the legal counsel community or the notariat to sit down and decide whether to co-decide on how judges and prosecutors will be educated? Either it works or it doesn't. Since there is no reciprocity here, we consistently believe that there is no need for representatives of these communities to participate in the Programme Council of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The question of Mr Jachnik was whether we were doing research on the way to the judicial service. Yeah, of course we did. The National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office are constantly working with very many of their counterparts throughout Europe and not only, which allows us to conclude that the path we have chosen is dominant, of course, with some generalisation, because schools look different - their subjection varies, different internal organisation, but generally on the European continent is dominated by the model of judicial school. We weren't so original, not us here, because it's a school that has a good story, even longer than a few years ago, but we took it from Spain. The first national school was in France. Of course, it is possible to say that this continental model is bad, and it is better that it is Anglo-Saxon, but if Mr Jachnik or any of you would like to have a sincere talk with judges or with British or American lawyers, they will also see many drawbacks of this system, which is in force in the Anglo-Saxon countries, whether it is a system which assumes the choice of judges, or a system which assumes the recruitment of judges exclusively from among representatives of the liberal legal professions, because sometimes it is like letting a wolf into the fold - letting a well-informed, good, expensive lawyer in order to hold a judge's office. 90% it will work and be independent, it will be able to separate itself from its previous links, but 10% will not be able, and the consequences are obvious and have nothing to do with the welfare of society. Mr Kalet from Law and Justice asks about these 90% complaints in his office or in his parliamentary office, probably all the parliamentary offices... These complaints concern mainly the activities of courts and prosecutors. Yes, we have the knowledge that this is a powerful social problem, hence attempts to change this situation. It's not all that easy and it doesn't just take you to snap your fingers, but we're trying to change it, and that's one way to change this situation. Because you have a parliamentary perspective, we have a ministerial perspective. We're suffocating under the pressure of complaints that are affecting us. Of course, there are also foam complaints, but there are also complaints that can be justified. And you have to do something, and as of today, the powers of the Ministry of Justice to do something about these complaints are very limited. And, of course, it's not about conducting the judiciary manually, because in any civilized country it isn't, and we don't want to do that, but we want to heal the system. We want, for example. make people educated centrally, in one place take the judicial office, so that, for a few years, they share their lives between Krakow, where they hold seminary and training classes, and their local environment, they eventually come, including the judicial office, not necessarily to their place of residence, only where they need to be. In France or in other countries, you get a proposal to take office, and it doesn't have to be in your city, and it may even be quite far away. And they came, without being involved in local arrangements, dependencies, they held the justice system not only well, professionally, but completely independently. It's a step in that direction. That is why it is to create as the main road to the magistrate's office through the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, and I am convinced that as far as percentage of these complaints are concerned, after we have carried out reforms that are already in Parliament, as well as those that we are planning in the future, even with regard to the courts of peace, will be much better than it is today. Mr Sanocki asks if I know that we are making a bigger mess. I don't know. I mean, I am convinced that we are finally cleaning up, and in time, the Member will also agree with us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u39	And the rapporteur for the committee, Mr Marek Ast. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u40	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will take this opportunity because it will probably not be later to thank all those who worked on this project once again - the government side, which has done a lot of work, and above all for being willing to make concessions, because the amendments were really, really, really much. It is worth mentioning the Legislative Office, because here in a short time the titanium work was done, just in cooperation with the government party. Thanks to this, we have a revised, improved project that has been carried out by the Justice Commission, and I hope that today we will also be able to adopt this project. And, of course, I would like to thank the members of the committee, including those of the opposition, who paid attention to some weaknesses or shortcomings in the presentation. We tried where possible to make adjustments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u41	Thank you. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, amendments were tabled to the proposed bill, I propose - after the discussion has been closed - that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the employment promotion law and labour market institutions and some other laws (print No 1494). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Stanisław Swed to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u42	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a government bill amending the employment promotion law and labour market institutions and some other laws, print No 1494. The aim of the bill is primarily to implement the 2014 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of employment as a seasonal worker, but also to limit the long-standing abuses of foreign employment in Poland. Thus, the project is not limited to simply transferring to the Polish legal order the regulations contained in the directive, but comprehensively introduces EU regulations and improves existing national solutions in this area. The development of the submitted project due to its importance for the labour market, the business sector, agriculture and fruitage, as well as for workers and job seekers, as well as the growing number of labour migrants in the Republic of Poland, especially from Ukraine, was preceded by intensive consultations with social partners and other stakeholders. Many of the solutions adopted in the draft law are the result of an agreement or compromise between representatives of the environments concerned. Before I go to discuss the key solutions proposed in the bill, I will briefly present a picture of labour immigration in Poland. It is worth noting that the current range of data collected does not give us a precise picture of immigration. Through solutions in the proposal submitted to the High House, we are trying to minimize these shortcomings. However, on the basis of the data available, trends can be identified. Since 2014, there has been a dynamic increase in the interest of foreigners in work in Poland. At the same time, the demand for employers to employ third-country nationals is increasing due to demographic structure and improving labour market conditions. The majority of foreigners working in Poland are citizens from countries outside the European Union and the European Economic Area. In 2016, for 152 thousand. applications to voivodships for legalization of stay in Poland came from citizens of countries outside the European Union, and only 10 thousand. from the citizens of the Union. According to Eurostat data, in 2015 the Commission received a questionnaire reply. For the third time in a row, Poland took second place in the European Union in terms of the number of long-stay visas issued and residence permits issued to third-country foreigners. We spent ok. 21% all such documents in the European Union. The main country of origin of economic immigrants was Ukraine, about 400 thousand. documents, then Belarus and Moldova. Most residence permits in Poland are issued in connection with work. 2016 was a record year in terms of the number of foreigners working in Poland. The Voivodeships spent over 127,000. permits, which means an increase of 94% compared to 2015. The increase, although less, because of 68%, is also noted in the case of registered declarations of intention to entrust work to a foreigner, which concerns short-term work, in respect of the citizens of six countries, including Ukraine. In this case, however, the figures are much higher, as there were 1300 thousand. statements. It is worth noting that the number of registered statements does not mean that so many foreigners work in Poland. There may be several statements registered for one foreigner or he may not take a job in our country. In 2016, statements were registered for 830 000. foreigners. In the first 4 months of 2017, the increase in the number of permits and registered declarations continued. According to indicative data, over 65,000 were issued between January and April. permits - increase compared to last year by more than 100% - and more than 600,000 registered. statements, which represents an increase of more than 40% compared to last year. The participation of Ukrainian citizens in the number of work permits issued continues to increase. Today it is over 106 thousand. permits. Their share of registered claims remains at 96%. Given cultural proximity and social acceptance, this is beneficial. On a much smaller scale, Belarusian citizens are present in Poland, the number of which also increased dynamically in 2016 compared to 2015, because by almost 140%. In absolute numbers, however, these are small sizes. For Belarusian citizens, less than 5 000 were issued. work permits and 23,000 registered. statements. Moldova, India, China and Nepal are also the leading countries of origin for economic immigrants in Poland. The demand for foreign workers is growing in most sectors. Particularly strong growth is noted in construction, transport or industrial processing. The importance of temporary agency as entities entrusting work to foreigners is growing. Despite a noticeably decreasing share of agriculture in sectors for which declarations on foreign workers are registered, it was 26% in 2016 All the statements. In 2010, this share was 61%. The number of claims registered for agriculture increased in 2016 to more than 336 thousand. According to data from Zakład Ubezpieczeń Społecznych, the number of foreigners reported to the Polish social security system is increasing. At present it is approximately 2% the total insured. At the end of 2016, the number of insured foreigners amounted to approximately 293 thousand. In particular, the number of insured Ukrainian citizens is growing rapidly, although it is still much lower than the number of Ukrainians actually working in Poland. Employers, when registering statements in 2016, almost half of the cases declared their intention to entrust work on the basis of contract contracts - 48%, 31% the statements concerned works contracts and 20% - employment contracts. In the bill we do not restrict the freedom to conclude contracts with foreigners, but we propose solutions promoting employment on the basis of employment contracts. In summary, the dominance of one nation, close to culture, is evident in labour immigration. Despite the growing interest in extending work-related stays in Poland, short-term employment of foreigners for simple jobs or in professions without high qualifications still prevails. There is also a large share of civil law contracts offering a lower level of protection. According to published research carried out on behalf of the International Organisation for Migration, concerning the situation of migrants from Ukraine on the Polish labour market and their vulnerability to exploitation, the vast majority of migrants from Ukraine working in Poland assess working conditions well. 71% one of them works on the basis of contracts, but one in five works without a contract. Almost one in four declares that he was a victim of use in Poland. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Allowing foreigners to work is important, among others. for agriculture, fruit and small and medium-sized enterprises, especially in the context of the country's falling unemployment and the difficulty of finding workers. However, the employment of foreigners cannot be fully carried out in an uncontrolled manner, because excessive labour immigration from countries with a much lower level of wages could result in lower wages, worse working conditions and pushing Polish workers out of the labour market. The proposed solutions meet these challenges. In our opinion, they agree with the interests of all stakeholders, improve control and monitoring tools, while allowing the acquisition of foreign workers at a reasonable level. I will now come to the discussion of the most important solutions contained in the project. In particular, due to the requirements of Directive 2014/36/EU and the Polish system of administrative law, a new type of work permit will be introduced - so-called. Seasonal work permit. It will be required in some subclasses of agriculture, gardening and tourist services. The detailed scope will be indicated in the Regulation. This permit will partially replace the current, very popular so-called. simplified procedure, i.e. registration by the county labour office of a declaration of intention to entrust the work to a foreigner. The seasonal work permit will be issued, as in the case of registration of the declaration, at the district employment office, but for a period longer than in the case of declarations, up to 9 months in the calendar year. The proposed rules on seasonal work permits shall take into account, as far as possible, the facilitations allowed by the Directive. In order to preserve the widest possible scope of the flexibility currently in force in Poland, more facilitation will apply to citizens of the countries currently covered by the declaration procedure. We propose to exempt this group of foreigners from the so-called. labour market test, which will significantly reduce the process time. In addition, we are introducing a new solution in the form of so-called. a multi-season permit so that the employer can obtain an entry in the seasonal work records for a period of up to 3 years. On this basis, the foreigner can apply for a visa or enter Poland in the case of foreigners covered by visa-free travel regulations in the following years without additional formalities. We introduce the possibility of entrusting each type of seasonal work on the basis of a single permit. Moreover, we allow a foreigner to work other than seasonal work for up to 30 days in total during the period of validity of the seasonal work permit. What will the procedure for issuing seasonal work permit be like in practice? The employer will apply for a seasonal work permit at the county employment office. This will ensure the proximity of the office, so important for seasonal work, and will facilitate faster handling of cases. We are introducing short seven-day time limits for the examination of requests for cases not requiring investigation. If the foreigner is legally resident in Poland at the time of application and seasonal work is to perform during this stay, the seasonal work permit will be issued immediately after the office has determined that the conditions for granting the permit are met. On the other hand, if a foreigner has to obtain a visa or cross the border in visa-free travel, the application for a seasonal work permit will be entered in the application register and the employer will receive the relevant certificates. The employer should hand over the certificates received to the foreigner, and the foreigner should report to the consulate with this certificate in order to obtain the visa. After issuing the visa and arrival of the foreigner to Poland, the employer should send to the district labour office a copy of the foreigner's passport confirming his legal stay in Poland - the obligation to keep such copies by the person entrusting the work is provided for in separate regulations from 2012 - and information about the address of the foreigner's stay. The seasonal work permit will be issued after the employer has forwarded these documents. Such a solution should contribute to making the foreigner present himself to the person who registered the application for seasonal work. The built IT system will allow you to pick up cases when the foreigner obtained a visa, entered the territory of Poland, but did not take up a job, which may be a reason for refusing to issue him another visa. It should be added that the employer will be able to hire a foreigner immediately after the presentation of these documents, without the need to wait for a decision on the issue of the permit. If the office refused to issue a permit, the foreigner should terminate his work on the date of service of the refusal decision. The draft law also provides for changes in the so-called. a simplified procedure based so far on the provisions of the Regulation of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of April 2015 on cases in which the assignment of work to a foreigner on the territory of the Republic of Poland is permissible without the need to obtain a work permit. It consists of the registration by the county labour office of the employer of the intention to entrust the work to a foreigner, a citizen of Armenia, Belarus, Georgia, Moldova, Russia or Ukraine, for a period not exceeding 6 months within 12 months. It should be stressed that it is impossible to maintain it in its present form because its credibility has been severely damaged. Let me give you a brief example of this. Here, for example, a judge coming to the labour office to register a declaration may face a refusal of registration. Why? Because he wants to register simultaneously statements for 15, 20 or 30 foreigners. Is it a lot? Quite apart from the fact that a large farm is owned by this orchard and how many workers are needed, almost every registrant of the statement answers that most foreigners for whom the statement is recorded simply do not come to work, even though the declaration has been registered and sent to the foreigner. And indeed, no one who makes a statement has enough certainty that a given foreigner will come to work with him. For this reason, farmers and Sadists make statements on a much larger number of workers than they really need. It's a waste of time for all those who do it. In the absence of certain conditions for registration of a statement and explicit provisions providing for the possibility of refusal of registration and information on the actual employment of a foreigner, an increasing number of declarations are made for appearances. Some district labour offices signal gross cases of making statements, e.g. by unemployed, homeless people who do not receive any income from business activities. Pretendful statements do so probably for the purpose of obtaining a property benefit, and a significant proportion of foreigners using such statements use them only for the purpose of obtaining the right of entry and residence in Poland or in other countries of the Schengen area, then seeking other work or other sources of earnings. It should be added that similar abuses are also observed more and more frequently in the case of work permits. It is therefore proposed to regulate the so-called institutions. a simplified declaration procedure with statutory provisions and its sealing. This is also important so that it can be applied uniformly throughout the country. Conditions for acceptance of the declaration, i.e. entering it in the register of declarations will be uniform for all labour offices, as will the conditions for refusing to enter the declaration in the register. The declaration will be entered in the register if: first, the foreigner will have the nationality of the country defined by a special regulation, second, the foreigner's work will not fall within the scope of seasonal work, thirdly, the period of work on the basis of statements entered in the register will not exceed a total of 6 months over the next 12 months irrespective of the number of employers. The grounds for refusing to register a declaration will be similar to those for refusing to grant a work permit and a seasonal work permit. In order to ensure the monitoring of the use of this simplified and better management of economic immigration, we introduce an information obligation about taking up or not taking up work by the foreigner. An important novel is the introduction of an optional condition for refusing a work permit or entering a declaration in the register. A negative decision may be issued if the circumstances indicate that an application for an authorisation or a declaration has been made for appearance, will be used by a foreigner for purposes other than the performance of work for the entity concerned, or if the person entrusting the work to the foreigner fails to fulfil the obligations relating to the pursuit of the activity or the assignment of work to other persons, e.g. does not pay due insurance contributions or is behind on paying taxes. The project provides for major changes to the rules governing the functioning of ICT systems including data on the assignment of work to foreigners and the exchange of information between public employment services and control services such as the Border Guard and the State Labour Inspection. It is also envisaged to make the data available to the police and to the head of the customs and treasury office in order to carry out their tasks of carrying out checks on the legality of the residence of foreigners. So far, no automatic exchange of information between these entities could be carried out. The bill gives the opportunity to share information between regional, district, labour offices, consulates and the said control services. It will facilitate the collection of data necessary for the examination of work permits or statements from the Social Insurance Institution and the National Tax Administration. In order to effectively carry out the tasks related to the issue of work permits and the registration of declarations, a register of work of foreigners will be established, which will include information on work permits, seasonal work permits and declarations on the assignment of work. Thanks to the regulations contained in the bill presented, we allow the consul access through the IT system to work permits issued by the Offices and certificates of registration. The Consul will therefore be able to verify whether the document submitted is authentic. This will improve the whole visa issue process, minimise the involvement of voivodship and district labour offices in verifying the authenticity of permits and declarations, and significantly reduce the number of cases of use of falsified documents of this type. The ICT system will also contribute to more effective monitoring of the movement of foreigners, which in turn will contribute to increasing the level of state security. On the other hand, gathering information on those entrusting work to foreigners will improve the protection of foreigners, reducing the risk of them being exposed to abuse by dishonest employers. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In addition, the draft law provides for the possibility for the Minister responsible for labour in agreement with the ministers concerned to introduce limits on work permits, seasonal work permits or declarations on the assignment of work to a foreigner. If the limit in question was exceeded, no authorisation would be granted, the same may apply to the registration of declarations. The Minister will be able to do so in the event of such needs. On the other hand, we are introducing the possibility for the Minister responsible for Labour to issue a regulation setting out the professions for which the simplified declaration procedure can also be applied in the case of the employment of nationals other than the six countries mentioned. Both will allow for a flexible response to the labour market situation and better management of labour migration. The conditions for granting a work permit will be the requirement for the employer to provide remuneration, which not only corresponds to the remuneration of employees performing comparable work, as has been the case so far, but also not less than the minimum remuneration for the work. We also introduce solutions to facilitate the extension of cooperation with a foreigner and at the same time encourage the employment of foreigners on the basis of a contract of employment. This will increase the protection of foreign workers, and indirectly also of Polish workers. If an employer employing a foreigner on the basis of a declaration for at least 3 months wishes to continue this cooperation for a longer period than a total of 6 months, which will already require work permits, then after the application has been submitted the work carried out while waiting for the decision of the voivode on the work permit will be considered legal. This will allow for continuous employment of the foreigner already imported from the employer, regardless of the duration of the procedure. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a general rule, we assume that the proposed changes will enter into force as of 1 January 2018, provided that the rules on the transmission of data from the National Tax Administration through ICT systems enter into force a little later, i.e. on 1 July 2018 In accordance with the relevant transitional provisions, a procedure will be followed for the termination of old declarations of intention to entrust the performance of the work. In view of the scope of the changes and the wide range of stakeholders, the amendments to the statements cannot enter into force too quickly, but it is necessary to process them as soon as possible in order to give them a final shape. Seven more implementing regulations will be necessary once the laws have been adopted. In summary, the proposed bill contains provisions that implement the EU so-called. the seasonal directive, using the flexibility allowed, as well as regulations that improve current solutions and allow better monitoring of labour immigration and better management of migration taking into account the needs of the Polish labour market. A detailed description of the changes is provided in the explanatory memorandum of the draft together with the impact assessment of the regulation. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I therefore request that the draft law on the amendment of the employment promotion law and the labour market institutions and certain other laws contained in print No 1494 be submitted to the Parliament's committee for further work. Thank you very much for your attention and I look forward to your support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u43	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Jan Mosiński, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present to the High House the position of the club vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the Employment Promotion Act and the Labour Market Institutions and certain other laws contained in the Seym Printing No 1494. Work on a government proposal to amend the current law is an excellent opportunity to look at the problem of economic immigrants more widely. I will give the High House some important data. According to a report prepared by the National Bank of Poland, published in 2016. Ukrainian citizens working in Poland - research report shows that increasing interest in work in Poland is most evident in the number of so-called. declarations of willingness to entrust work to a foreigner notified by Polish employers. A few years ago, the number of such registrations exceeded 200,000. per year, but for 3 years its growth has been observed. In 2015, which was a record year, 760 thousand were registered. statements covering the citizens of Ukraine of 780 000. All registrations. The authors of the report estimated that in 2015. Ukrainians earned PLN 8 billion, of which 5 billion in pure cash were transferred across the eastern border. Returning to the declaration procedure, attention should be paid to the widespread trade in employment declarations that employers register at the employment offices. This procedure is based on the fact that traders are inventing a person or persons who have completed procedures according to the regulations, but who are not going to hire anyone. For such a service, these persons collect certain salaries, and the dealer exports a statement or statements to Ukraine and sells for several hundred dollars per piece. Other data, in this case the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, show that e.g. In 2015, 800 000 were issued to Ukrainians. employment statements and approximately 0.5 million have been identified as employees. Thousands of so-called The souls are gone. In 2016, the number of claims exceeded a million and so-called. The disappearing souls are about the same. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It should be stressed that Poles are positive towards immigrants from Ukraine who are willing to assimilate and settle in our country. Unfortunately, in districts where there are problems in employment and there are low wages, there are voices that Ukrainians use wage dumping against Polish workers, and as a result of such policies, taxes are not paid, which has a negative impact on the state budget. What else should be pointed out in the context of immigration policy? Well, according to Eurostat's official data, our country is a leader across the European Union in terms of the number of legally admitted labour immigrants from outside the Union. This is worth mentioning in the context of some anti-Polish statements by Brussels politicians, such as Mr Juncker, Mr Timmermans, Mr Verhofstadt or Mr Donald Tusk, as well as the parliamentary opposition. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the changes contained in the bill, in particular the provisions introduced to facilitate the collection by the county labour offices of the Social Security Office and the tax administration of data which may be used to assess whether the declaration is made for the so-called. appearance, that is, for purposes that are not meant to be. Employment offices will also be able to request employers to present documents confirming the conclusion of employment contracts, contract contracts and similar contracts between an immigrant worker and an employer, including information on the amount of remuneration and whether the person is subject to social and health insurance. Importantly, such control and sealing mechanisms provide companies with a fair and level playing field. Honest employers have no chance to compete with pseudo-employers who have employed and have so far employed economic immigrants within the grey zone. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In conclusion, the amendments proposed in the Government's draft law aim primarily at reducing trade in statements, sealing the declaration system, civilising competition rules between companies that employ immigrants. Importantly, with such legal regulations, the Polish government shows that it is responding positively to the influx of Ukrainian immigrants. The presence in Poland of more than one million eastern neighbours lies to the opinions spread by some of the politicians already mentioned from the western part of Europe, as well as opposition politicians, that our country is closed to the needy and defend itself against receiving foreigners. To conclude, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I propose that the government draft law amending the Employment Promotion Act and the Labour Market Institutions Act and certain other laws contained in Parliamentary Printing No 1494 refer to further work in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u45	Thank you. And you have the floor of Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłock, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present an opinion on the Government's draft amendment to the Employment Promotion Act and the Employment Market Institutions and some other laws described in the Seym print No 1494. This proposal aims to implement Directive 2014/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 which harmonises the rules for seasonal employment in all countries of the European Union. We were obliged to adopt the provisions of the Directive by 30 September 2016. I'm wondering why we're not going into the bill until now. What is the reason for this delay? The directive aims to effectively manage migration flows in European Union countries in terms of temporary seasonal migration and to ensure proper working conditions for seasonal workers. As we read in the explanatory memorandum of the project, the new rules also stem from the need to seal the procedure for short-term work and to reduce fraud. This is mainly about recording statements made for appearances, the purpose of which is not to entrust work under the conditions indicated in them. New rules for the admission of foreigners for seasonal and short-term work in the territory of the Republic of Poland are particularly important for the agricultural sector. According to a study by the Institute of Agricultural Economics and Food Economy, almost a third of the workers employed in our agriculture are foreigners, citizens of Eastern European countries, mainly Ukraine. The Directive also introduces a new form of a declaration of intention to entrust the performance of work to a foreigner. It is worth noting that the period of seasonal work will be extended. In addition, nationals of all third countries will be able to apply for authorisation. This will be a major change, as the current system only covers the citizens of six countries. If the conditions for entrusting work are met, the application will be entered in the register of applications for seasonal work. A work permit will be issued by an old lady. The Directive also provides for preferential arrangements for nationals of selected countries to be identified under a regulation issued by the Minister responsible for Labour. Introduction of a seasonal permit or modification of the so-called. the statement system will certainly formalise the whole procedure of short-term employment of foreigners. The Starosta will be able to make a negative decision. We understand the need to strengthen monitoring of the statement system, but some of the grounds for refusal are highly assessed, e.g. the issue of the appearance of a declaration, the possession of financial resources, the sources of income necessary to cover the obligations arising from entrusting work to a foreigner. The provisions of the Directive impose, inter alia, on the employer. the obligation of accommodation which must comply with national standards. For district labour offices, the transposition of the Directive entails an increase in administrative burdens and the number of procedures. I know that many directors have reported problems with the financing of their tasks. Reservations may be made to grant the Labour Minister the right to introduce, by means of a regulation, annual limits on work permits issued by voivodships, seasonal permits and registered declarations. Solutions worthy of support include: promoting employment relationships. If a foreigner is employed for a period of 3 months on the basis of a statement, it will be easier to extend his work legally. In conclusion, the project should be considered as sustainable. However, from the point of view of entrepreneurs, the practical application of new solutions by government and local authorities, organisational capacity and efficiency in identifying individual proposals will be crucial. The possibility of legal and effective employment of a foreigner in the current situation in the labour market is crucial in terms of the proper functioning of domestic enterprises, in particular their competitiveness. It should also be stressed that employed foreigners do not compete for Polish citizens. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm almost done, Marshal. Importantly, foreigners are employed in competitions and deficit positions. And what is important, the gradually growing influx of foreigners is accompanied by a steady trend of falling unemployment. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform requests that the bill be referred to the Parliamentary Committees for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u47	Thank you very much. I have the floor of Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear Young People at the Gallery! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Kukiz Club15 a position on the draft law amending the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Market Institutions and certain other laws. The proposed law aims to implement into the Polish legal order the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for employment as a seasonal worker. On the one hand, it aims to eliminate abuses related to the use of the procedure of declarations of assignment of seasonal work by foreigners from outside the European Union in order to enable them to reside, but on the other hand it encourages our labour market to become open to cheap workers. I don't think it will lead to the employment of workers from outside the European Union by Polish employers legally, because the work in Poland is still burdened with high costs. In Poland he works, according to research, over 1200 thousand. Ukrainians, but legally for a contract of employment - less than 300,000, and therefore they do not pay taxes here. Seasonal workers in Poland are mainly workers from outside the European Union, while seasonal workers in other countries of the European Union are Poles. Labour market migration is a desirable phenomenon, however, when it comes to promotion or to improving skills. There is a risk that the implementation of further European Union directives in this area will result in our young people continuing to travel abroad, and Poland will be flooded with cheap labour from third countries. Is that what we want? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u49	Thank you very much. You have the floor of Marek Owa, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u50	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern I have the honour to present an opinion on the bill amending the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Market Institutions and some other Print Act No 1494. The draft law aims to implement the 2014 European Parliament Directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for employment as a seasonal worker. Moreover, the aim of the Act is to seal the procedure for short-term work by citizens of Armenia, Belarus, Georgia, Moldova, Russia and Ukraine. Mrs Mrzygłocka has already mentioned this. This provision was to be adopted by 30 September 2016. It was not only the adoption of the law, but also the implementation of the implementing and administrative provisions. You often complain that a number of laws adapting Polish regulations to European regulations are not implemented on time, and you are doing exactly the same. Nevertheless, in assessing the substantive part of the entire presentation of the project, I would like to say that the Modern Club is, of course, in favour of referring this law to committee work. We're going to investigate it, and unlike my previous speaker, I think it's a good project. The situation on the labour market has changed radically and has changed for many years. Today we have to say that these regulations are also in the interest of Polish entrepreneurs who need hands to work. Undoubtedly, the introduction of these rules will radically facilitate their acquisition. We are happy with the many provisions that are introduced here. The changes are going in a very good, positive direction and will certainly be welcomed. I do not want to discuss in detail those issues which are, as it were, our special sympathy. There will be time to talk about this in committee work. It must be said that the number of seasonal workers, but not only, already employed in the Polish economy is very high and this is visible. In practically every county there are workplaces where this percentage is already a dozen percent. That's why it's worth working on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u51	Thank you. The voice of Mrs Monica Rosa, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u52	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We have two doubts which, I hope, the Minister will disband now or during the committee work. The first one is a matter of limits. In accordance with the rules, limits may be introduced by means of a regulation prepared by the Minister responsible for the labour market, economic affairs and home affairs. Although limits should, of course, be introduced, I would like to ask whether it is also worth taking into account regional issues and the needs of individual voivodships and occupations, e.g. take into account either the opinion of the old-fashioned or the opinion of the employment office in a given voivodship in order to take account of the needs of the region and thus employers in the region concerned. The second question concerns the issues assessed when issuing declarations of intention to entrust work to a foreigner, which was made for appearance. Recognition by the official will have a decisive impact on whether or not a declaration is refused and consequently whether the employee can be employed by the employer. The recognition of these conditions for decisions will affect employers' employability. I would like to ask you to clarify these two points and I think that we can continue to work on this project in committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u53	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u54	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I present the position of the club of the Polish People's Party to this law, which regulates employment of the so-called. seasonal workers who are foreigners. It is worth paying attention and zooming in on who is a seasonal worker. This mainly applies to two sectors of the economy: tourism and agriculture. Let us focus on agriculture, because it is much more important in Poland than tourism. The current situation with regard to the arrival of workers, mainly Ukrainian citizens, concerns agriculture. Working in agriculture, especially in gardening with fruit collection, has a certain specificity, which differs from regular work. It is a seasonal one, i.e. a variable labour demand over a calendar year. On a holding growing strawberries, raspberries, currants or apples, there is a need for labour in January and another demand in July, August, September and October. That's why this job is inconstant, it doesn't bring permanent income to workers. This is also a physical work performed very often or almost always in the air and therefore rotating, because when the weather is good, you can break fruit, and when the weather is bad, it rains, this work for workers does not exist. This work is also characterised by the fact that due to the prices that occur on the market - and it is not only a Polish phenomenon - as a rule it is low-paid, earnings are not high. This work is also characterised by the fact that there is a large turnover among workers. One day on the plantation we have these workers a certain amount, the next day they give up because of the nuisance of this work and it is necessary to hire workers from another source. All this means, all this causes - and this shows the practice of past years - that Poles are generally not interested in such work. Poles prefer regular work, well paid, done in good conditions, whether in Poland or outside. How we have dealt with this so far as agricultural industries Or the gardening industry? Well, this lack of interest from the Polish labour force, notabene connected also with the decline in unemployment over the past several years, we have replaced - because I am also a planter of such fruits - the employment of the labour force coming from the East, from Ukraine, and just unlike Poles, Ukrainian citizens are interested in doing this work. They just want to come to Poland for a few weeks, take such a job, earn money and take this money and put into circulation their economy and their family. This has so far been done in the formula of a simple statement of intent to entrust work. The farmer with such a declaration, with one-page printing, went to the county labour office and not by administrative decision, but only by registering such a declaration could he provide it to the Ukrainian citizen, with whom he had previously agreed working conditions, he went to the Polish consular post, obtained a visa with permission to work in our country, came to work and did this work legally, although there were actually cases of taking up work in the so-called. The gray area. So far, also due to the factors that I mentioned at the beginning, i.e. the large turnover of workers, seasonal labour demand, the work contract and the contract of commission were used mainly because they allow to employ workers in rotation with a low administrative burden on the part of the Polish employer. Therefore, responding to those who say that the matter of works contracts was abused and was not - employment contracts were not signed, because employment contracts are, however, permanent work, continuous work, with all consequences of the employment contract. Such an agreement is bad for a Polish employer working in the field of agriculture, because it means that even a small planter of strawberries, currants, raspberries, etc. must not take care of its plantation, not reap the fruit, but run from office to office not because it avoids paying the tax, just because it must keep registering and registering its employees, fearing exposure to unpleasant consequences for itself. For this reason, we believe that this law, which regulates certain issues, but in our view in the final round, could mean a deterioration of the conditions for farmers and create a narrow throat in the employment of Eastern workers, seasonal workers in gardening, should not in this form, which is today, become the law in force and requires a number of changes. We are not applying for the rejection of this law, we are just talking about the fact that at meetings of one or another committee - I think that the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development will also be involved in the work on this law, which I am asking for - this law will be examined in detail and amended so that the arrival of Ukrainian citizens is not difficult, it is legal, but also so that these people can continue to create conditions for Polish competition. [[♪ The bell ♪]] agriculture and gardening in the international arena, and in this case labour costs play a fundamental role. Let us therefore improve this law and help Polish farmers to carry out a good work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u55	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mrs Margaret Płępek has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At the end of last year, the experts involved in this draft law indicated that the procedures for the employment of foreigners would become more complicated. On the one hand, the project introduces new, expected solutions, and on the other hand it raises some concerns. I wanted to ask the Minister if there will be officials coming in to deal with seasonal work permits for foreigners, and what scale it's going to be. Do employers have to face the fact that employment for seasonal work for foreigners will be more time-consuming, but this will create some difficulties for employers? I wanted to ask you how this is going to be resolved, if the county employment offices are going to receive extra-employment funding, because it's going to be an additional range of activities for the employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u57	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u58	Mr. Marshal! Some of the amendments proposed in the draft law amending the Employment Promotion Act and the Employment Market Institutions and some other laws require clarification. For example, in the article. 88j is proposed to add a new paragraph. 2b providing that the voivode will be able to issue a decision refusing to grant a work permit if the person entrusting the work does not have the financial resources or sources of income necessary to cover the obligations arising from the assignment of the work to the foreigner. My question is therefore: How will administrative authorities verify the existence of funds or other sources of income for these entities? These circumstances should undoubtedly be clarified. My next question concerns a situation where employers choose to hire a foreigner, but they often intend to cover the cost of his accommodation. In this context, they do not encourage potential employers to regulate in Article. 88w paragraph. 2, which deprives them of the possibility to deduct the charges associated with the hiring of accommodation units directly from the remuneration of a foreign worker. The provisions of the agreement providing for the possibility of automatic deduction of the rent from the remuneration of the foreigner will be void. From the employment practice, among others. In agriculture or in the fruit industry, we know that the employer providing housing to foreigners most often only wants to return used media. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The proposed provision represents significant obstacles for employers who will be able to claim accommodation costs by court, which will undoubtedly extend the time...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u59	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u60	...to receive the funds due. I'm asking you to answer these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u61	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u62	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Firstly, the question to the Minister in connection with the letter you sent to the county labour offices to eliminate in the case of the current procedure, i.e. the declaration, by default: the permit procedure for a work contract, where the employer declares that he will establish a work contract with a potential contractor on his farm... So what's it gonna look like? Does the Minister maintain the prohibition, as it were, of an agreement between the employer and the employee in the form of a work contract? Secondly, what would the authorisation limits be? Would these limits apply to territorial matters, or to employers, or to specific tasks? How many of these limits will be and who will decide that? These are basically the two most important questions that I am asking the Minister on this matter. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u63	Thank you. Mr Jan Mosiński, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My predecessors from the Civic and Modern Platform are accusing tardiness in implementing the seasonal government directive and the parliamentary majority. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I recommend a thorough reading of the article. 28 and Article 28 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning Of course, he is talking about this date on 30 September 2016, when it comes to transposition, but it was addressed, including Poland, in February 2014. The question is what you did between February 2014 and October 2015 on the implementation of this Directive. I have a question for the Minister. Did the predecessors leave a draft law implementing the seasonal directive in the Ministry? And the opposition I recommend reading the newest Tygodnik Solidarnoscs - Ukrainians on the Vistula River, a very interesting article describing among others. the problem of economic immigrants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u65	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Stanisław Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to all the clubs for supporting the project. We are probably all aware, all those who are concerned with this issue, that this is a very difficult directive on important issues. As it has already been said here, it was implemented in 2014. All those who dealt with it remember the resistance on our part so that this directive does not come into our legal order in this form. I'm afraid she's in. This is a directive that is detrimental to the Polish state and especially to agriculture. She's just hitting agriculture. Therefore, such difficult work on this law, related to the implementation of this directive. We have tried to make maximum use of this directive in order to facilitate particularly agricultural issues, because this directive is really about agriculture, fruitage and services, to a lesser extent, of course, tourism services. That's the main goal. Therefore, this transitional period, which we apply until 2018, will be the entry into force of the Act from 2018. But also those agreements that have already been concluded on the basis of the current employment statements of foreign workers will result in next year, so here we are introducing a transitional period. Perhaps this is what Mrs Mrzygłock asked about. In other countries too, this directive is not yet fully implemented. At the moment, the data we have shows that nine countries have implemented the directive, that there are ongoing work in 16 countries, including Poland, but what is important is that there are also three countries that have previously secured themselves in negotiations, and that, of course, Law and Justice did not affect the decisions made that are not covered by the directive at all. These countries are Denmark, Ireland and the United Kingdom. At this stage, if we were to block or exclude our country from this directive, we would have a different situation, which is why it is so difficult to find good solutions at the moment. It seems that what we have prepared is going in this direction, so that there are as many opportunities and facilitations as possible from this seasonal directive for our businesses, and especially for agriculture. And it is. I will remind you here, Mr Maliszewski asked, so-called. multi-season permits, for 3 years, this is an facilitation. The fact that in the first 30 days, if there is no job, a foreigner will be able to do another job without further permission, i.e. after entering will already have the opportunity to take up a job. 9 months is the maximum period that we could write in this respect, and that's it. Of course, they appeared during these meetings that we had with groups of farmers, various proposals. One such proposal was that we should apply to agriculture an employment contract as it is in France, for example. There's wine, but there's a code deal. If we put in a code agreement directly, as the honourable Member said, concerning the collection of soft fruit, then it is already completely decomposing to us. You have to look for other solutions. In this respect, we have agreed that we will work with farmers' unions on this so that, especially for soft fruit, we can find a solution. As far as limits are concerned, of course, we do not set a limit here. This is an optional proposal, where there would be situations that, I do not know, in one voivodeship, and this is the answer to these questions that have been raised, there is some kind of competition where there is an excess of foreigners who want to enter our country, then such limits can be applied. Such a regulation, which will be issued, will be agreed with both the Minister for Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture. The MSWiA draws attention to the issue of security, i.e. the creation of certain enclaves of citizens, foreigners, from third countries which may have an impact on security. I answer Mrs Monica Rosie's question about the limits. So that's not an obligation, that's an optional action. But we have such a mechanism, if necessary, in a given voivodship or in a given industry, with the participation of both the voivodship and the district government. This is included in the Regulation, if necessary. Mrs Płępek asked about employment issues. Yes, this is where we amend the regulation. We're introducing a fee for making statements and permits. We estimate - because it's 10% the minimum wage - that it will be no more than PLN 30, but that we divide: half of this amount will be transferred to district offices and half - to offices, I would say, central, or state budget, but also to support voivodeship offices, for those who do this. It's got it, among other things. improve, help particularly district labour offices, for which these are additional tasks which they currently perform without any means. Last year, as I said in my speech, there were over 1300 thousand. just statements that have passed through the employment offices. This needs to be regulated at the moment, but it also gives more opportunities and hire additional people. So that these funds are spent on it. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej asked about contracts and deductions, the point is that it cannot be so that they are deducted from wages, for example. For rent the premises shall be deducted automatically. This is not possible because the directive explicitly speaks of remuneration, we apply this minimum remuneration. There is no possibility in law that we deduct from the remuneration for e.g. a lease agreement. Of course, it is possible to charge for the use of the apartment or the premises, but it cannot be automatically deducted. As far as the appearance of contracts is concerned, will the voivodship be able to refuse? He'll be able to refuse in extreme situations. If someone comes in who does not have a job, is homeless and is seeking a witness, we know that this situation is just for appearances and not for the issue of honesty in employment. As far as speaking to district labour offices is concerned, this had nothing to do with the directive. This had to do with the promotion of shares concerning 13 PLN, i.e. the minimum rate for contracts of orders, hence the information concerning the checking and verification of those rates that apply in our country. These rates are the same for everyone. Today the hourly rate is 13 PLN, minimum wage - 2000 PLN and in this respect Let's go. So that once again I thank everyone for supporting the bill and within the committee we will try to adopt this proposal as soon as possible, bearing in mind that seven more regulations still have to be adopted, and that the entry into force, as I said, will take place on 1 January 2018, with a transitional period, i.e. the application of these rules concerning this year's declarations next year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u67	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Employment Promotion Act and the Employment Market Institutions and some other laws. The main objective of this draft law is to implement Directive 2014/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council, so-called. the seasonal workers directive and the sealing of the procedure for short-term work. I have no doubt that the current solutions in Poland in this area are not sufficient to ensure proper protection for workers and employers, and they are conducive to fraud. According to the provisions of the directive, the regulations contained in the amendment are expanding the current system of admission of foreigners to the Polish labour market. They modify the existing short-term work statement procedure and as a new type of work permit introduce a seasonal work permit. It is not necessary to convince anyone that these are necessary regulations. Among the proposed provisions are a number of those which will serve to ensure the safety and decent working conditions of the incoming foreigners. These are records concerning e.g. the amount of the minimum wage or the need to guarantee an appropriate form of employment, similar to that adopted for domestic workers, social security. However, what is extremely important, in the novel there are also a number of provisions that reduce such practices as making false statements or falsifying or buying statements. These include allowing consuls to quickly verify the certificate of registration of the application and to introduce special procedures and the possibility for the Office to issue and appeal a negative decision. It is necessary to regulate the rules for the employment of foreigners in Poland more detailed than before. I agree that the provisions introduced by this amendment will be an additional burden for employers wishing to make use of this possibility and that these solutions, due to the expansion of the administrative system and procedures, will also entail an increase in costs for the state budget. However, this is, in my opinion, a small price in return for the benefits of the bill submitted. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceeding on this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u69	The discussion requested additional referral of the draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Nature Conservation Act (prints 1518 and 1525). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u70	Thank you very much. High Izbo! The Senate passed six amendments to the Act amending the Nature Conservation Act. The Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry discussed these amendments yesterday. I am presenting a recommendation, which is precisely the result of the committee's work. High Izbo! Amendment 1 concerns a change in the situation in which the owner of the property is not obliged to obtain an authorisation to remove the tree if at an altitude of 5 cm above the ground the circumference of the trunk does not exceed certain sizes. For fast growing trees it is 80 cm, for chestnuts, Robin and Platanium - 65 cm, for other trees - 50 cm. Amendment 2 concerns, in turn, the situation of extending the deadline to the reaction of the notified commune authority from 14 to 21 days. Amendment 3 is more precise, concerns the procedure for what is happening if the authority objects and the owner of the property requests authorisation in the current procedure. These provisions are currently contained in Article. Paragraph 83f. 16. The Senate amendment clarifies these situations. Amendment 4 containing the wording no later than the amendment clarifies the maximum time limit, i.e. specify the time limit for the adoption of regulations relating to the legal basis contained in Article. Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] shall apply mutatis mutandis. Article 85 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 4th Nature Conservation Act. Amendment 5 shortens from 6 months to 1 month the deadline for issuing a regulation setting the rates of fees. Amendment 6 aims, in turn, to correlate the time limits for entry into force of the Regulation issued pursuant to Article. Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 and specific provisions. The Commission, as I say, discussed these amendments yesterday and recommends that the High House adopt them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u71	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Anna Paluch presented the amendments in detail. I, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, would like to inform you that, as Members, we will support the amendments proposed by the Senate to the Act amending the Nature Conservation Act. These are provisions that specify as well as refer to the law itself and to the system that has been in force since 1 January 2017. These amendments proposed by the Senate are related, as my previous speaker mentioned, to the fact that the trees to be removed from the property are not measured at the height of the so-called. breasts, 130 cm, only 5 cm high. This decision of the senators, the will of the senators was dictated by the fact that as far as verification is concerned, when the tree is already removed from the property, it is easier to verify if the remains of this tree are measured at a height of 5 cm. The Senate also clarifies the issues concerning the regulations to be issued by the Minister for the Environment. There is a great deal of these regulations, and we have inherited this from the governments of our predecessors over the past years - regulations that have not been issued. The Senate's will was for the preparation of regulations to be stepped up. Therefore, the proposal, which concerns the Nature Conservation Act, concerns among others. the names of trees that bear the marks of monumental trees, of magnificent copies. The aim is for the Minister of the Environment to issue a regulation not within 6 months, but within one month of the date of entry into force of the Act. I will repeat once again: Law and Justice will support the amendments proposed by the Senate of the Republic of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u73	Thank you. Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I present our opinion on the amendments that the Senate has adopted. I would like to stress once again that this is a bad law, because it does not fulfil, does not achieve the objective pursued by the applicants. It was intended to seal the system associated with the removal of trees from the property and was intended to be directed at eliminating a certain pathology that we have seen on a large scale since the beginning of the year. Unfortunately, this bill, this draft condition, does not fulfil this purpose. While the senators have tried desperately to improve some legislative provisions, some of these amendments are just an attempt to improve this solution, but not all the Senate proposals are here. One thing that is comforting is that the social voice on one small issue has been taken into account, i.e. measuring the ground-level circuit, which is intended to prove certain issues at a later stage. They have also been implemented, although partly, deadlines for public administration, for municipalities, in particular to raise objections, because the Code of Administrative Procedure shows that within 2 weeks it is not possible to lodge an objection effectively after the vision has been carried out, because it is valid for prior notice with a 7-day deadline, then the time to receive this information is another week, so it remains very short time. These 21 days will eventually make it possible to fit in. The same applies to a completely absurd situation originally - the opposition criteria and definitions of the Minister were to be prepared by the Regulation within six months, and the Act enters into force within two weeks of its adoption. So this interregnum would not allow the use of those instruments which the municipality was assigned, in the form of opposition - mainly these are either areas or objects or protected trees. About how messy it is, for example, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Senate didn't even notice in the justification that the original law removed the shrub records, left them in relation to the trees...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u75	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u76	...and he's still using that nomenclature. The platform will, of course, support the defective, because the defective, the Senate's amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u77	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Do you know why the PiS governments of the short term in 2005 and 2007 were positively assessed? Because it was thought that PiS did not interfere much in the economy and did not take measures to regulate the public and social life of Poles. Today we have a different situation. PiS is trying to regulate not only the economy and public life, but even the private life of Poles. The PiS has become obsessed and has decided to spoil even the best of its legislative solutions. One of them was undoubtedly the adoption of the Nature Conservation Act in December 2016. He's already ruined it by the Seym law, but now we have a continuation of this ruin through the amendments of the Senate of the Republic of Poland. The Senate dominated by the PiS decided that it would cease to be a chamber of reflection and reflection, and will become a creator of a restrictive law for Poles, because it wants to introduce amendments to the Nature Conservation Act. 1. The amendment restores the height of the tree trunk on which it would be measured to determine its circumference, which would be the basis for the notification, or not, of the tree clippings, even mocked by the PiS Members. In the second amendment, the Senate wants an extension of the term for a real estate inspection, from which the owner wants to remove the tree. If you hadn't amended the December 2016 Act, you wouldn't have to worry now that local governments wouldn't be able to illustrate a private plot to determine the name of the species and the circumference of the tree trunk. You've done your own jobs with government officials, and now you're afraid they won't be able to keep an eye on people. The next amendments are supposed to be legislative, but they spoil the Nature Protection Act even more. They are illogical, in particular this amendment shortening the deadline for the preparation by the Ministry of the Environment of the relevant regulations from 6 months to 1 month. Members of the PiS, what matters is what exists, because in the promises of the PO, it will outrun you anyway. They promise you 500+ not only for the first child, but also for the one that will be conceived in the near future. By introducing such records as in the revised Nature Conservation Act, including the Senate's amendments, you cut the branch on which you are sitting. But maybe that's a good thing. The Kukiz Club15 will vote against these Senate amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u79	Thank you very much. I would like to welcome the members of the Radom Association June 76 with President Stanisław Kowalski, who are listening to our debate from the gallery. [[Applause]] Please, Mrs Ewa Lieder, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u80	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The amendments adopted by the Senate to the Nature Conservation Act are mostly worth supporting, as they improve the quality of the very plethora of the draft and the imprecise provisions proposed by the Members of the governing party. Unfortunately, the possibility of opposition of local authorities receiving applications, i.e. the mayor or the president of the city, and in some cases the provincial monument conservator, is very limited and the Senate's amendments have not changed this. The local government will not have the right to object to the cut-off when the trees intended for it grow in areas covered by nature conservation forms other than national parks, nature reserves, landscape parks, protected landscape areas and Natura 2000 areas. A tree covered by the municipality's nature conservation form as a natural-landscape complex or ecological use will not be protected from cutting. The reason for the creation of natural-landscape teams and ecological grassland is the need to protect small surface objects, but valuable in terms of natural, cultural or aesthetic terms. The bill takes away the possibility of protecting trees on their territory. Similarly, it will be with the protection of the species of plants and animals which are not adequately protected by the proposed provisions. The Senate adopted an amendment shortening by 1 month the time limit within which the Minister for the Environment should issue a regulation setting the rates, fees for the removal of trees or shrubs for each type or species of trees or shrubs depending on the circumference of the tree trunk or the surface of the shrub. However, the time for the Minister of the Environment to issue the regulation was not reduced, which is intended to cover the parameters of trees and other lifeless creatures that classify them as monumental protection. Six months after the entry into force of the law, this part of the rules will not be applicable. Some of the environmental amendments supported by the organisations were lacking, which would be beneficial for nature. This includes: a provision on an open register of notifications which would assist in verifying notifications and identifying good practices. It was a very good idea, and it was a mistake that the Senate didn't take it. We support the amendment which introduces an obligation to measure the tree's circumference at a height of 5 cm. This is a response to the demands of NGOs, which are well-argued by urban naturalists and activists. This provision in the original version would make it difficult or impossible to draw consequences if the tree was cut illegally and not in conformity with the dimensions permitting the cut-off. It would be difficult or impossible to determine whether the tree had a circumference of 130 cm or less than the statutory one. In addition, the amendment proposes reducing the tree circuits to which trees can be cut without consent. This is a very good change. In view of the above, the Posel Club Modern supports the amendments adopted by the Senate to the Nature Conservation Act, which will nevertheless be a very bad, hollow law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and in practice - very difficult to apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u81	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u82	Mieczysław, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u83	I'm so sorry. Mieczysław Kasprzak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u84	Mr. Marshal, they're confusing me. I don't know why. Mr. Marshal isn't the first one here. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club to take a stand on the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Nature Conservation. I have repeatedly paid attention to the procedure of proceeding over this law, over this bad law, in general the law of lex Szyszko, so-called. The Lex Szyshko bill, because she was so synonymous. On the other hand, the Minister of the Environment has been cutting himself off from this law all the time, he has not taken a stand, claiming that this is the work of Members and Members should explain themselves. Such a carefree process of this law caused that without a small six months it was corrected and was to be improved in express mode. We remember all these weird ideas, sometimes so lunar. It's a good thing a few amendments were made here, but in general that doesn't change this bad bill. I would like to remind you that I made proposals at third reading, at second reading, so that the period of the regulation would be 1 month, not 6 months. Then the minister on the committee said that even six months wasn't enough, because it's such a difficult thing, and it takes so much time to spend it, that he can't spend it. It turns out that the Senate accepted these earlier proposals because they are logical. Well, what of the bill, if there are no regulations that clarify, seal, give you, so to speak, the possibility of implementing this law? The Polish People's Party will support all these amendments, although this does not change, as I said, our position. This bill is a bad bill. Polish forests and nature were caused a lot of evil by the fact that on 16 December, this famous seymous night was adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u85	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finances on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on auditors, audit firms and public oversight (prints Nos 1516 and 1528). I ask Mr Arthur Soboń to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u86	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the Senate's resolution on the Act on auditors, audit firms and public oversight, print No. 1516. This report was addressed to the Committee on Public Finance on 2 March. The Committee on Public Finance, after considering this resolution at its meeting on 10 May 2017, requests that these amendments which the Senate has sent to us be accepted in the main majority. However, it proposes that the amendments contained in points 15, 16, 25, 31 and 35 be rejected. These amendments, which we are talking about today and which the committee has dealt with, are clear, legislative and precise in terms of the provisions of the law. I don't think it's worth a point after the point of all of them discussing. Amendment 28, which introduces something that took place at the consultation stage of this law and which was taken into account by the Senate, i.e. the so-called. a white list of services that are allowed. This white list of services includes vetting services in cooperative banks, but also so-called. certification services. And these services are listed in the proposed changes. They concern among others. conducting procedures of the highest due diligence in terms of economic and financial condition, issuing letters certifying, carried out in connection with the prospectus of the certification services for proforma financial information, forecasts of results or estimates included in the prospectus of the audited entity, historical research, financial information relating to the prospectus, verification of consultation packages, confirmation of compliance with the conditions of the credit agreements concluded on the basis of financial information analyses from financial statements audited by the audit firm, certification services for corporate governance reporting, risk management and corporate social responsibility, services consisting in assessing the compliance of information disclosed by financial institutions and investment firms with the requirements for disclosure of capital adequacy information and variable remuneration components. These services in no way affect the substance of this law, i.e. the separation between audit and advisory services provided. These are services, in simple terms, confirming information. These services shall be performed by auditors, by auditors. The committee's recommendation is that these amendments I have been talking about should be accepted and those which I have pointed out should be rejected. The bill itself is a law that is worth accepting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u87	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. You have the floor of Artur Soboń, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u88	On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to say once again in two sentences why this law is important from the point of view of the capital market and the reliability of the information that we, as recipients of this market, receive. It strengthens, firstly, the independence of auditors, and secondly, the quality of the information we receive, finally public supervision, i.e. the Polish state takes responsibility for this supervision. Of course, it is also a constitution for the profession of auditor, redefining the tasks of the Chamber and the auditors themselves in a modern way. We have a specific market situation, and this is also the case during these debates. We've spoken many times. The market is, as far as the largest companies are concerned, dominated by large global audit networks. Therefore, in the course of the work on this law, we introduced solutions which were based on European regulations, while on Polish soil they were introduced in such a way as to limit this rotation to 5 years in order to thus try to deconcentrate the concentrated market. Finally, this bill is some form of compromise. The expectations from different groups were different, sometimes extremely contradictory. The definition in which we have proposed this strict chapter of audit and advice concerns individuals of public interest. These units of public interest are precisely defined in the Act. It can be said, as the organisations also point out, that they do not, of course, cover the entire market, so we have directed these standards only where it was necessary. However, if for example. We'll take the list of 2,000. the largest Polish companies in the ranking as to their size, among them there are slightly more than 300 public interests, so I think it is a reasonable compromise. What we are adopting today is the Senate's amendments to the certification services, and it is worth saying two sentences about it. The certification services shall include audits as well as audits of financial statements and other certification services defined by law, reserved for the statutory auditor. This means, firstly, that the service must be reserved in terms of performance only for persons with statutory qualifications and, secondly, the provision of the service must be governed by law. There are also certification services which statutory auditors carry out and which are generally reserved for auditors, according to standards, and are provided under a contract concluded between the company and the statutory auditor. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and the statutory auditor and the third party. And these are the services performed by the auditor. They don't have a character...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u89	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u90	...testative, but the auditor is best placed here and that is precisely defined by these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u91	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the Senate resolution on the Act on auditors, audit firms and public oversight, print No 1528. After considering this law, the Senate introduced 50 amendments to its text. The vast majority of amendments are clear, eliminate language errors, correct misrepresentations, and standardise the terminology of the law. I would like to draw attention to the substantive amendments that meet the expectations of the audit community and are also accepted by the Financial Supervision Commission. Amendment 24. alleviates the independence criteria of the supervisory boards entrusted with the functions of the audit committee. The amendment takes into account the specificities of cooperative banks and cooperative savings and credit banks. This problem was discussed at meetings of the Emergency Sub-Committee and then the Committee on Public Finance. Amendment 28. The Senate introduces the so-called "Senat" into the law. a white list of services which constitute services authorised for the statutory auditor. The White List includes the services of vetting in cooperative banks and other specified services which may be performed by the statutory auditor carrying out the audit of the financial statements of the public interest entity. This is a closed, well-defined directory of services that should in practice eliminate any doubts about the scope of the statutory auditor's activities. The need for such a catalogue was indicated during the legislative process. In summary, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club supports the position of the Committee on Public Finances regarding the amendments of the Senate of the Republic of Poland. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u93	Thank you. Mr Michał Jaros has the floor, unless he does not want to. I don't want to. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: No, no, the switch.]] Ma'am? Good. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u94	I'm short. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! By referring on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club to the amendments of the Senate tabled to the Act on auditors and audit firms, I would like to say that we will vote as recommended by the committee. There are quite a lot of improvements, because as many as 50. They were grouped, but they did not raise much controversy and the club of the Polish People's Party will vote for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u95	Thank you, sir. And I ask Paulina Hennig-Kloska to speak. [[Member Paulin Hennig-Kloska: However, Member.]] And yet, Mr Michał Jaros, Modern. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: I was not sure if you would make it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u96	Thank you, Marshal. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Modern Club, I would like to present a statement on the report of the Senate's committee on the Act on auditors, audit firms and public oversight, prints 1447 and 1516. The government project is, of course, aimed at implementing European Union law. The project specifies that statutory audits, namely those whose obligation to carry out the bill, will be covered by the scope of public oversight, while voluntary surveys, i.e. the audit of the annual accounts, the audit of the consolidated annual accounts of the group and the audit activities will be subject to the supervision and control of the local government of auditors in the framework of the performance of the statutory tasks of that organisation. The draft also clarifies the catalogue of public interest entities and establishes uniform rules for the rotation of audit firms by shortening the maximum duration of statutory audit orders of public interest from 10 to 5 years provided for in the basic Regulation. On 27 April, the Senate adopted 50 amendments. Most of them are legislative in nature, mainly language errors are eliminated. Among the substantive changes introduced by the Senate are amendments allowing auditors to provide certain services to their clients which were excluded by the Sejm. It goes on, among other things. about services for carrying out due diligence procedures in the field of economic and financial condition, research into historical financial information to the prospectus or verification of consolidation packages. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The Modern Club thinks the bill isn't good. It has not been supported by the environments concerned. It is criticized by, for example, the National Chamber of Experts or the Association of Exchange Issuers. On the occasion of the implementation of European Union law, the PiS government wants to introduce solutions that are detrimental to statutory auditors or audit firms. According to calculations, more than 150 companies and public interest units will be forced to change the auditor after a period of 5 years. In addition, the proposed regulations are not adapted to the real possibilities of the addressees and may lead to over-regulation of the rules governing the way audit firms operate. Ladies and gentlemen! As at the beginning, so are we against this bill now. And the Senate amendments are only legislative and linguistic in nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u97	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on the Social Security System and the Act amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws (prints Nos 1517 and 1522). I ask Mrs Barbara Bartus to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, contained in print No. 1522, on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on the Social Security System and the Act amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws. This law introduces inter alia. individual premium accounts, so the payer will not have to pay three or four contributions a month, but it will only be one contribution. This bill, among others. it shall also repeal the additional fee from Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 10c of the Social Insurance Act, which ZUS had to make compulsory payments to payers who made mistakes. This law was adopted by a large majority, almost unanimously, by the Sejm on 7 April. Then the Marshal of the Sejm sent her to the Senate. In its resolution, the Senate adopted three amendments to this law. The amendments adopted at the 40th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act on the Social Security System and the Act amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws are not of a substantive nature, they are only necessary additions to the order of terminology. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy considered these amendments at its meeting on 9 May 2017 and recommended that all three amendments be adopted by the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u99	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Halina Szydleko, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u100	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice in relation to the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Social Security System and the Act amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws. The Law and Justice Club at first reading supported the government draft of this law, recognising that the proposed regulations meet the general expectations and aim to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the Social Insurance Institution. The Senate amendments do not raise doubts or controversy, so we support them and we will vote in favour of the bill together with the Senate amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u101	Thank you very much. Mrs Joann Frydrych, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present a statement to the club concerning the Senate resolution of 27 April 2017 on the Act amending the Act on the Social Security System and the Act amending the Labour Code Act and certain other laws. This law aims to implement the process of increasing the functionality of optimising the public danin collection system for the benefit of citizens and entrepreneurs. Amendments 1 and 2 tabled by the Senate both relate to formal issues such as the correction of typographical errors arising during the legislative process and provide clarification of the wording of the amended legislation. By contrast, Amendment 3 complements the catalogue of validity of current applications, reports, declarations and other documents necessary to maintain the accounts of payers of contributions and insured accounts. High Izbo! I would also like to point out that the Group of Senators of the Civic Platform, members of the Senate Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, has tabled amendments that meet the expectations of entrepreneurs. These amendments would primarily safeguard the interests of the insured. Unfortunately, the Law and Justice did not support these amendments... [[But we don't have those corrections.]] They were reported as minority proposals during the work of the Senate, Madame. Unfortunately, the PiS did not support these amendments, although in the election campaign it announced listening to citizens' voices - but it did not listen to them. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, referring to the resolution of the Senate of 27 April 2017, will vote against the rejection of the amendments in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u103	Mr Maciej Masłowski is not here. Mr Krystian Jarubas is not here. Oh, I'm sorry, Mr. Jarubas delivered his position in writing. Ms Margaret Zwierzan also provided a written statement. Mrs. Cornelia Wróblewska isn't here. I therefore close the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project under investigation is reduced to the deletion from the Social Insurance Act, which imposes an additional fee on the entrepreneur for late or incorrect filing in the ZUS documents as part of the monthly report, in the event that the undertaking was late in transferring the due contributions to the OFE. These additional fees are fixed by the Social Security Office in the form of a decision, and their amount depends on the amount of statutory interest and the amount not paid within the period of the contribution to the OFE. As you can see, in practice, the costs associated with this fee are many times higher than the revenues to the social security system. The amount of income on accounts in the open pension funds of individual insured persons is very small and does not have a positive impact on their future pension benefits. According to the old rules, the Social Security Office does not charge such fees if their amount does not exceed 2 PLN. According to official data, only in 2014 12,3 thousand were issued. this type of decision - a total of more than 170 thousand. zł. The average fee, however, is only approx. 14 PLN and the estimated cost of one decision exceeds 60 PLN. It is therefore clear that the fees set out in these provisions are an unnecessary burden for both the contributors and the Social Insurance Institution, and the costs associated with the payment of this fee are many times higher than the proceeds to the social security system. The estimated savings from the proposed amendment can therefore amount to several hundred thousand zlotys. The PSL Club sees the need to amend the Social Security Act in this respect. In our view, the deletion of the rules should save businesses and the Social Security Office and reduce the bureaucracy involved in the payment of contributions. The PSL Club will vote in favour of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Act amending the Act on the Social Security System and the Act amending the Labour Code Act and certain other laws and the amendments made to it by the Senate. I would like to remind you that the aim of the project was to introduce changes to improve the functioning of the social security system and thus make life easier for citizens. Among them are among others. the creation by the Social Security Office of an individual account for the entrepreneur, so that he will make monthly one deposit instead of four, changes in the way contributions are credited to the payer's account and the cancellation of the additional fee for those payers whose errors in the documents transferred to the Social Security Office translate into a delay on the date of the contribution to the open pension fund. I have no doubt that all the regulations proposed in the revision are needed, will have positive effects and will improve the service of citizens in social security companies. Following the debate on this project, the senators only tabled amendments of an ordering nature which did not affect its substance. As a result, the Free and Solidarnia area will vote in favour of the amendment with these amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u106	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. I'm declaring a time-out. 13. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 min. 51 hrs. 13 min 05]] I'm reopening the session. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors' Convention, submitted a draft resolution on the 40th anniversary of the establishment of the Student Solidarity Committee in Krakow. The project is print number 1542. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I inform you that the President of the Council of Ministers informed the Sejm of his intention to submit to the President of the Republic of Poland for ratification, without the agreement of the Act, the Convention on the Measurement of Inland Navigation Ships, drawn up in Geneva on 15 February 1966. Members did not raise objections within a certain time limit on the validity of the ratification procedure chosen by the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has submitted a report requesting that the Prime Minister adopt this notification without reservation. The committee's report is in print 1526. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 120. 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I inform you that there are no reservations as to the validity of the procedure chosen by the Council of Ministers for ratifying this document. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Bureau of the Sejm on the 40th anniversary of the establishment of the Student Solidarity Committee in Krakow (print No 1542). I ask Members to stand. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the 40th anniversary of the establishment of the Student Solidarity Committee in Krakow. On 15 May 1977, the Student Solidarity Committee (SKS) was established in Krakow. Its founders were students of Cracow universities grieving after the tragic death of Stanisław Pyjas, a student of Polish studies at the Jagiellonian University, a participant in anti-communist opposition activities and a collaborator of the Workers' Defence Committee. Both the findings of his fellow investigators, regardless of the actions of the then communist prosecutors, as well as the brutality of security officers, revealed as early as 1989, indicate that this was a political murder committed by security. The circumstances of this death have still not been explained in spite of the repeated investigation. The founder's declaration of the Student Solidarity Committee was announced at Wawel's feet after the end of the protesting Black March, and the founders of the SKS made public their names and addresses, exposing themselves to the repression of the authorities of that time. For the first time, the word'solidarity' was used as an idea of resistance to the totalitarian system. The Student Solidarity Committees were then established in other academic centres: Warsaw, Wroclaw, Szczecin, Poznań and Gdańsk and together with other youth opposition environments created the largest free and anti-communist movement in Europe. They fought for freedom of speech, published their own magazines and books, organized libraries that were banned for political reasons, and demanded the abolition of restrictions on the use of emigration publications in libraries, organised seminars and lectures independent from the university authorities, demanded recognition of Poles' right to free crossing of borders and passports, cooperated with democratic opposition organisations and ecclesiastical institutions, contributed to the 'Solidarity' movement, and after its formation they formed an Independent Student Association (NZS). On the 40th anniversary of the establishment of the Student Solidarity Committee in Krakow, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland expresses its gratitude and appreciation to its creators and co-workers, whose activities served Poland's freedom and independence well. I ask the High House to adopt a resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the 40th anniversary of the establishment of the Student Solidarity Committee in Krakow. [[There's some lights out in the courtroom for a while, and there's a stir in the courtroom.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Knock it off! Knock it off!]] Mr Bartłomiej Arłukowicz, Platform Club... [[Voices from the room: Bartosh!]] Bartholomew, yes, Arłukowicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I wanted to ask the marshal to announce a break in order to explain what happened in the Polish Parliament yesterday. I want to inform your marshal because perhaps the marshal doesn't know that the head of the Sejm Office yesterday created a black list of the names of the ladies who were banned from the Sejm. They were guests of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club and were not admitted to the Polish Parliament. I, Mrs Wielichowska, Mrs Janyska, Mrs Kochan, have tried to introduce ladies who wanted to listen to the debate in the Polish Parliament, and the head of the Sejm has limited this right and prevented us from introducing our guests to the Sejm. Women. That's why... [[Because he has the right!]] [[Voice from the room: He has the right!]] [[It is the citizens who have the right to be in the Seym.]] [[Speech outside the microphone, movement in the room, ringtone]] Ma'am... Really, please keep your voice down, Member. The way you treat women shows that you're afraid to debate with them, you're afraid to face them. And I'll tell you, marshal, what you've done is scandalous. [[Sit down!]] We'll be expecting an explanation in writing. But I'll tell you in a man's way, Marshal, don't start with women because you know how this ends. [[Applause]] [[Sit down!]] [[In my opinion, it ends nicely.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u108	I thank the Member for these words. I don't know the case, we'll sort it out at the Sejm Office. We are returning to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report by the European Union's Committee on European Union Affairs on the Commission's draft resolution on the recognition of the draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the internal electricity market (recast) as incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1515 without amendments. Questions are asked by Members. Member Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform Club. The time for questioning is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! How can we operate within the European Union without an energy programme for Poland? Without such a programme, it is impossible to be effective, and this effectiveness is ultimately at the moment, because the winter package is indeed very dangerous for the energy economy of Poland, although it also brings many good elements. How can there be effective diplomacy if there is no basic instrument, which is the energy policy of Poland? Minister, will the lack of this policy help you to ensure that this resolution that we are now implementing under the yellow card procedure is effective? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u110	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club, has the floor. [[Anyone gonna answer or not?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u111	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! Indeed, Poland has not had a programme for electricity for many years. Unfortunately, it has not had this programme for several years, because the last one is on the date of 2009. The previous governments are responsible for this situation, but also for the current government, which has not prepared this programme despite repeated announcements. The absence of a program makes us grovel in this very important strategic sector. Today, these EU regulations that we are discussing will result in a lack of support for the coal sector in our country, which threatens to cause serious consequences, is a disaster. Minister, I have a question: When will there finally be a strategy, when will there be a programme based on real assumptions, an analysis of the situation in the country and the international environment? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u112	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 1515 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. The vote was 410, against - 2, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the recognition of the draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the internal market in electricity (recast) as incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity. We are returning to the review of item 16 of the agenda: Report from the Social Policy and Family Committee on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on the Social Security System and the Act amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. 1st Amendment of the Senate to the Rule. Point 1 (6) (a) b The amending law is editorial and legislative in nature. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The absolute majority is 216. Four votes against - 426 Members. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. 2. Amendment of the Senate to Article. Paragraph 1 (15) of the Amending Act is editorial. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The absolute majority is 216. 1 Member voted against - 429 Members. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. 3. Amendment of the Senate to the Rule. 6 of the amending act is editorial and legislative. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. The absolute majority is 213. 1 Member voted against - 423 Members. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Law on the System of General Courts and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1519-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Mark Ast to present an additional report to the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Law on the System of General Courts and certain other laws, contained in print No 1519-A. At today's meeting, the committee considered the amendments tabled by Members of the Modern and Civic Platform at second reading - these amendments were in total 21 - and recommends rejecting all amendments. She also considered the request of the Kukiz Club to reject the bill. The Commission also recommends rejecting this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u114	There you go. As we have heard, the committee requests the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1519. The Commission also makes a proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety and amendments. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The Commission is asking, I would remind you, to reject this proposal. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. The question is raised by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u115	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In accordance with the Constitution, the National Judicial Council has exclusive competence to assess the qualifications and suitability of candidates for judges and to submit them to the President for appointment. I would like to ask the rapporteur: How will you justify this evident non-compliance with the Constitution and transfer the constitutional powers of the national judicial council to the minister of justice? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u116	Thank you. Mrs Monica Rosa, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u117	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Why are you so consistently and decisively limiting the role of the National Judicial Council, an institution to uphold the independence of the judiciary? So far, the President has been appointed by the National Judicial Council. This is, in accordance with the Constitution, the interaction of the judicial authority with the executive authority, but the KRS played a key role in this process, however, as an independent and independent body. In the meantime, the project only brings the role of the National Court of Justice to the possibility of objecting within a month to the appointment of assesors by the Minister of Justice. The Minister, the politician, the representative of the party state. Why are you so determined to limit the role of the National Judicial Council? [[Applause]] [[You read nicely.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u118	Thank you. Mr Boris Budka, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I'm sorry. Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u119	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, I am leaving here because this law is one of the elements of how you show your approach to justice. But the way you're ruining the justice system, the way you treat the courts instrumentally, was seen two days ago at a conference in Oxford. I have a question for the Prime Minister. Is it true that Mr Lech Morawski represented the Polish government at this conference? Because that's what he used to say. Is it true that you have your party representative at the Constitutional Court, who is speaking internationally on behalf of your government? Is it true that this gentleman pretending to be a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal was talking about you winning the election together? Is it true? [[♪ The bell ♪]] that at this conference he said that in Poland people with other sexual orientation are lucky because the police are not after them and are not put in prison?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u120	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u121	And finally, how did the Prime Minister give him the power of attorney...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u122	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u123	...to speak on behalf of the Polish Government? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u125	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! Mr. President! Well, this law and the other two laws are the laws of the wrong. I appeal to you to take this into account that she does not bring anything for the citizen. The citizen, as he was, is and will be vulnerable, and the collapse of the justice system will affect us all in about 3, 4 years when this young generation without life experience will decide all your fates. [[Applause]] I have a question about that. Do you plan to do the schools of Members and Senators in the next place, because this is how you can reform the best? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u126	Thank you. There was a question for the rapporteur. Is Mr Marek Ast... We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 203 votes against - 230 and 3 abstentions. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. Amendments 1 to 9 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. In Amendment 1. to Article. 6 applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 6. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Questions are asked by Members. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u127	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Why does the designer, because I am directing this question to him, not see the benefits of the influence of legal representatives, lawyers, legal advisers, notaries, on the programme of training applicants from the point of view of procedural agents? In the view of the designers, should not future judges also learn on the basis of the experience acquired by the representatives of these legal professions and will this later have a direct impact on the conduct of court proceedings involving the parties, the way in which the court cooperates with representatives and defenders? Isn't that just to separate the court's followers from the possibility of deepening their knowledge also on the basis of other interpretations adopted by the Ministry of Justice? Why doesn't the Minister of Justice want the President to be on the Programme Council? [[♪ The bell ♪]] President of the National Council of Legal Counsels and President of the National Council of Notaries? [[Voice from the room: Time!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u128	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u129	Does the Ministry, as always, fear social control? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u130	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u131	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! I have a question for Minister Ziobra. Do you know anything about what Judge Moravian said that the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal in Poland take bribes? Do you know anything about the Supreme Court judges taking bribes? Do Minister Ziobro, Prime Minister Szydło know that they nominated a man as a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, who, instead of defending the Polish Constitution, says that this constitution is useless? This man is the Berczynski justice system. You haven't explained one thing yet from Berczyński, and today your second Berczyński comes out of the closet. Isn't Oxford abroad? Isn't that complaining abroad and talking bad about Poland? [[Applause]] [[There is no such city - London!]] Can a man who is a member of the Constitutional Tribunal say that about Poland? What Poland deserves [[♪ The bell ♪]] For such representatives? I demand an answer. [[Time!]] This is what the debate should be about today, about these words. [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u132	Thank you, sir, but I remind you...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u133	I demand an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u134	...that the questions should concern the 1st amendment to the Article. 6 of the proposed bill. [[Sławek, there is no such city - London!]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 169 voted against - 229, with 34 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In Amendment 2. to Article. 32 applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 9. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Elżbieta Stępień, a modern club. [[Read it fluently.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The judge's examination is a very important step in which the candidate for a judge is verified. Therefore, the composition of the examination committee should be fully transparent, substantive and guaranteeing that future judges will be fully independent and that the judiciary will not be independent in accordance with the Article. 45th Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The constitutional body set up to uphold those principles shall be the constitutional body set up in accordance with Article. 186 Constitution National Judicial Council. So what is the purpose of removing from the examination committee a representative of the National Courts and granting him only observer status, which raises huge doubts as to the compatibility of the proposed provision with the appointed articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Nicely read.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u136	Quiet, please. Thank you, Member. [[Mr. Marshal, please urge your fellow Members not to comment when someone is speaking.]] His fellow Members. Ladies and gentlemen, all Members are my Members. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Whether anyone wants to or not, I'm very sorry. [[Mr. Marshal, what about me?]] They're all my messengers. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 173 voted against - 228, with 30 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In Amendment 3. to Article. 32 applicants propose not to add paragraph. 9a and 9b. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. There were 171 votes against, 221 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 4. to Article. 33a applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 9. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. A total of 31 Members abstained from voting 174 against 227. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 5, applicants propose not to add Article. 33b. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unsubstantiatedness of Amendment 6. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 174 voted against - 228, with 31 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 6. to Article. 33b applicants propose to give a new wording to paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed provision in the Act states that, in case of non-extinction in a given year, all free posts of the asessors by the graduates of the judicial application will first be taken into account for ruling in Polish courts graduates of the prosecutor's application. With all due respect to those who have been trained to serve as prosecutors for many years, they are not prepared to serve as judges at all. At the same time, it closes to free professions, all those who for many years have gained huge legal achievements, gained experience, access to free judicial competitions. This amendment seeks only and only to ensure that persons who are to act as prosecutors and are educated as subordinate prosecutor general, carry out judicial duties in Polish courts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That is why we propose that the Minister of Justice, in the event that these posts are not put in place, order recruitment for vacant judicial positions. It's logical. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u138	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 171, against 225, and 32 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 7. to Article. 40 applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! However, I must repeat my question here just now or the questions I have just asked. Prime Minister, there's no way to keep this matter quiet. This is from a member of the Constitutional Court, the judge you called. The judge who says he represents the Law and Justice there. [[Voice from the room: Kara!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u140	Sir, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u141	He's talking about Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u142	...the amendment concerns another matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u143	Mr. Marshal, he's talking about Poland. [[But you've only just taken him into the family of the Sejm.]] A man abroad talks about Poland, about Polish judges, about the Polish state. [[Are you drunk or something?]] He says he's soaked in corruption. He says judges take bribes. He says politicians take bribes. It's not like the opposition are taking bribes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u144	Mr President, the amendment concerns a different matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u145	That requires a reaction, gentlemen. This is the Sejm, who looks forward to answering these questions. What's this? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u146	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u147	You're asking us to answer our questions...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u148	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u149	...you demand answers from us to theoretical questions...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u150	...you're not talking about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u151	...and we're talking about real reality. This is a representative of...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u152	Mr President, I would very much like you to...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u153	...high country. [[According to your program, which you don't have.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u154	...you interrupted this speech because you're not talking about it. [[But he's asking a question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u155	Mr. Marshal, is the case I'm talking about irrelevant? Where should the Polish Member speak about this? [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u156	Mr President, I would like to point out to you that we are at...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u157	Where am I supposed to talk about this?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u158	...of Amendment 7.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u159	I'm asking you to address this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u160	Thank you very much, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 172 voted against - 228, with 32 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In Amendment 8. to Article. 53b applicants propose to give a new wording to paragraph. 1 and 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 172 voted against - 225, 32 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In Amendment 9, applicants propose not to repeal Article. 65. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 169 voted against - 228, with 35 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 10 to 14 were tabled in Article. 2 draft amending act containing amendments to the Law on the System of General Courts. In Amendment 10. to Article. 45 applicants propose not to add § 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The questions are raised by Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u161	Mr. Marshal! Amendment 10 needs to be mentioned. By the way, because we are talking about Amendment 10, we must mention respect for the Polish state. [[Applause]] It should be mentioned that if someone abroad... [[Look who's talking about respect for the Polish state.]] ...represents the most important institutions of the Polish state, it cannot lie, it cannot not not tell the truth. He can't... [[You lied, you lied, you lied. Lying is your fault.]] ...badly accuse the highest public officials in Poland... [[What do you say abroad?]] ...because it's not about these officers, it's about the Polish state. The point is that with such statements we destroy the image of Poland. We're from Poland... [[You lied, you lied, you lied.]] ...a country where you steal, in which there is no law. That's what the people you nominated do. And I, as a Pole, as a Polish Member, expect you to cut yourself off from these statements. Unless, in this Chamber, the Prime Minister's mouth, Mr Kaczyński's words are cut off from these shameful words, you will take... [[But what, the truth in the eyes of the circle?]] ...full responsibility. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u162	I return to Mr... [[Poland is about, Poland is about...]] [[Ha, ha, ha!]] ...I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are at Amendment 10, which... [[That's what he was talking about at 10:00.]] ...is referred to the deletion of § 3, which is written here, and... [[But it's also about Poland.]] ...applicates, among others. applicants for the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. So I would like to draw your attention... [[And I was talking about Poland.]] ...I would like to draw your attention, however, to consider whether you are considering whether you are... [[Mr. Marshal, I work for free this month.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: In volunteer try.]] [[Volunteer.]] Then we shall proceed to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The vote was 167 against - 229, with 31 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 11. to Article. 61 applicants propose not to repeal § 3 and 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 167 votes against - 225, 35 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 12. to Article. 75b § 4 applicants shall propose to amend the time limit referred to in that provision. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 170 voted against - 217, 32 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 13. applicants shall propose not to amend Article. 106h, 106i, 106k, 106l, 106y, 106z, 106za, 106ze, 106zf, 106zg, do not repeal Article. 106n - 106x and 106zb and not add Article. 106xa. Amendment 17 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u163	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! In this amendment, Minister Ziobro proposes that the right to appoint assesons should be given to him. In the Polish legal system, the right to appoint assesors, judges is the domain of the President of the Republic, not the Minister of Justice. The decision of the Constitutional Court is appropriate. And if we're at the Constitutional Court, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] This is the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal who went to England and talked about Poland, that it is a corrupt country in which corrupt elites rule, in which the constitution is useless. And I'd like to protest it and demand that most of the...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u164	Mr President, in your speech, you have deviated from...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u165	...parliamentary, her leaders [[Applause]] Cut off from...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u166	...the subject matter of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u167	... those disgraceful words. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u168	Once again, I would like to draw your attention to the point of speaking. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[I was talking about the amendment.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 13 and 17 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 170 voted against - 228, with 35 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. In Amendment 14 to Article. 155 applicants propose not to repeal § 7 and 7a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 170, against 226, with 34 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 15, the applicants propose that Article be repealed. 8 draft amending act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 169 voted against - 228, with 32 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 16. to Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 11 applicants shall propose an extension of the period referred to in that provision. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The vote was 175, against 228, with 30 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 18, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 18. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 18th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 171, against - 228, with 33 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 19, the applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 19. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Adam Szłapka, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're debating the justice system today. I have a question that is a little more general than just referring to this amendment to the Minister of Justice. Are you Minister Ziobro? I don't think so. Minister, what is your primary source of law when proposing this bill? 'Cause it's definitely not a constitution... [[The welfare of the citizens.]] ...from 1997, which you are notoriously breaking. I have no doubt that for you the main source of the law is the constitution of the 1952 Polish People's Republic, where the principle of uniformity of power, to which you refer all the time, is described. He's sitting here in the sovereign room, and that's where every power comes from. What you're doing, this next bill, is violating the foundations of the rule of law, and that's breaking the law. You'll be settled for that, I'm sure. But to be of consolation, I do not agree with President Andrzej Duda because I do not think guilt is inherited. [[But the statements are tonight.]] That's why I don't think your children should be branded, too, for breaking the law right now. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But you should be accounted for. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u170	Thank you. Well, that wasn't a question, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 19th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 172 voted against - 228, with 33 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 20 to Article. 20 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 21. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 20th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 172 voted against - 227, with 32 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 21. to Article. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants shall propose an extension of the period referred to in that provision. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 21st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 172 voted against - 227, with 33 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before voting on the whole draft law, Mr Budka, the Civic Platform Club, asks questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u171	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! Minister! Well, in this law, as in the lens, you can see your approach to the principle of three divisions of power, and really not respect it. You are actually the services of the Minister of Justice, which will even swear before him and not before the President of the Republic. You're actually a model of a single state authority that's lost. Mr. President, this Poland has lost, and really, in a way, you can't change that. But I have one more question. Congratulations to the Prime Minister for today's election and violation of the law - art. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 Law on the so-called. The reprivatization committee - I am asking the Minister Jaki's question. Before you take up your new duties, I have an appeal from the Prison Service - exactly as I appealed from this place a year ago - after 3 days you listened to me - please take care of the regulation, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which will allow the introduction of increases for the Prison Service exactly like in other uniformed services, unless it has already been done...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u172	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u173	...and the e-mail I got this morning isn't real.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u174	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u175	Then I'll personally say thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u176	Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u177	High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Contacts. In accordance with the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2007, in accordance with the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights of 2010, a legislator wishing to allow the ruling of persons other than judges in the constitutional sense should seek solutions which guarantee the effective separation of judicial authority from other authorities. He should be looking for solutions that will loosen the relationship between assesors and the Minister of Justice, which will ensure the influence of the National Judicial Council on the judge's professional career. In a word, it is simply a matter of guaranteeing the right to a court which will be independent, impartial and independent, contained in the article. 45 constitutions, but also in the article. 6 the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. So I have a question: How does the PiS want to ensure these rights for citizens, since, according to the proposed law, it is the Minister of Justice who will appoint for an indefinite period court assistants, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Then the Minister of Justice will appoint a place of business, and the Minister of Justice will take a vow? This is preparation. Not for a judge's job...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u178	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u179	...but to obey the ruling party. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u180	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u181	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! You've used us, ladies and gentlemen, from the majority of the Seym, to use a kind of trick to tamper with the constitution by ordinary laws. Today, I wanted to address President Duda, who is supposed to be in independence. Mr. President! It's time to really slow down your piss buddies a little bit and encourage them to bring together a constitutional majority, change their constitution, and then model the judiciary for their ideas. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u182	This may be an important appeal from your point of view, but here the rapporteur is Mr Marek Ast, and the Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr Łukasz Piebiak, to whom I am voting at the moment, is authorised to act on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u183	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm going to make a brief presentation of this bill, and I'm going to refer to what came out of that podium today. [[Voice from the room: We know the bill.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this bill or project still allows to restore elementary justice - elementary justice for those young people from school who have been working for a good few years, and it is with great success that these young people who finish this extremely difficult course... I don't think there's a conflict between the coalition and the opposition here, and I think everyone agrees that this is a very difficult training, only after this difficult training, which about 300 people have already completed, 16 people have been given judicial positions. What's with the others? It is realized in the private sector, it is realized as assistants, referenda. Is this something that the Polish state is about to spend millions of zlotys on? Those young people who passed the exam - extremely difficult, I repeat - should be used for the benefit of the state and give them assesura. [[Applause]] We think we should give them assesura. They should be tested in action. Asesura does not restore the Government of Law and Justice or the United Right. This was restored by the previous coalition of the Platform and the Polish People's Party. Therefore, it is not that assesura is evil. It's not like assesura is unconstitutional. There is a memorable judgment of the Constitutional Court, but it is necessary to read its justification and then it will be known that this project does not violate this judgment and therefore does not violate the constitutional provisions. If one of those who have spoken up so far on behalf of the opposition wanted to read this project thoroughly and with understanding, a provision would be found there which clearly indicates that it is the National Judicial Council that has a final opinion and that it entrusts a judicial vote. What of the fact that the Minister of Justice - regardless of whether you will be Minister Zbigniew Ziobro or anyone else - will establish a relationship of service with an asessor, even if this young man does not get a vote of judgment? Nothing. He won't be able to rule. Nothing's gonna happen. Therefore, the special role of the National Judicial Council is preserved, but to know this, you have to be careful, read the project and you have to be honest to say it. [[Applause]] You, at least some of you, don't. We are trying to correct our long-term negligence. We are trying to ensure that the Polish state, which teaches tens or hundreds of millions of zlotys, teaches them rationally. You can say, as some say, "This is a Polish invention. No, it's not a Polish invention. It's a continental invention. It was not us who invented the concept of judicial school and prosecution in Poland. That's what the French invented, because I think they were the first ones to create it in the '50s. [[Applause]] It was invented by the Spanish, it was invented by people from many European countries, from continental Europe. [[Europeans.]] Our model is closest to the Spanish model. Do you think that this is an undemocratic state, that there judges depend on the executive authority? Or are the French judges depending on the executive authority, following orders on the phone? No. Neither will our assistants and our judges follow orders from neither the Ministry of Justice nor any decision-making center. They will be guided by constitutions and laws as required by the ethics of this profession. This bill has a chance to lead to this. Please pay attention to one more thing - assesura is not a judge. Not without reason e.g. We exclude family courting for assesors, because there is a need not only for excellent knowledge of the law, but also for some sensitivity and experience. The assailant can't do what the judge can. Between assesura and I become a judge for life is also the National Judicial Council, a body which is politically independent from the Minister of Justice. So don't tell me things that aren't true -- that this project violates the constitution, that it subpoenas whether it's assessors, whether it's judges, or the judiciary as such a minister of justice, because that's not true. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u184	There you go. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1519 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 225 voted against - 201, 3 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Act on National Judicial School and Public Prosecutor's Office, the Law on the System of General Courts and some other laws. [[Applause]] We are returning to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Nature Conservation Act. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. Amendments 1 to 3. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Nature Conservation Act. In the first amendment to Article. 83f The Senate proposes to amend the provisions relating to the possibility of removing trees without the need for authorisation. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Questions are asked by Members. Mr Gabriel Lenartowicz, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This bill is a law that fixes the so-called. lex Szyszko, a law which was tabled on the initiative of the President of Kaczyński himself. She was supposed to be fixing, and she's not really fixing anything. It restored the administrative mitra for Kowalski and did not use effective barriers to the mass cut-off for investments. The Senate desperately tried to improve this bill, but it succeeded to a very limited extent. We will vote in favour of these amendments. And one, and the other, was the Law of the Messenger. How are they different? The first law was supported by the Minister Szyszko - and the Ministry - but the second one did not and demonstratedly distanced itself from it, as did a significant proportion of the members of the PiS in both the Senate and the Sejm in committee. My question is: [[♪ The bell ♪]] Has Nowogrodzka ceased to be a central power supply or...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u186	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u187	...she's no longer for everyone...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u188	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u189	...the more for Minister Szyszko? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u190	Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club, is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u191	Dear Marshal, Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! Today again we are talking about a fatal amendment of the Trees Act, by which Polish cities and municipalities were stripped of trees. And this is, of course, the work of Minister Szyszko. I'll tell you every time. You've waited so long for everything that was to be cut out to be cut out. [[Nice, nice reading.]] Today's Senate amendments will be supported with the hope that we will still be able to save the remaining trees. Unfortunately, these Senate amendments do not correct many errors of this law and ignore the voice, for example. urban activists. And a word to Mr. Shieldinski. Mr President, it is better to write yourself a thoughtful, wise text than to chatter what the spit on the tongue brings, just as you do. Because it's a responsibility for the word. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u192	Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u193	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the rapporteur whether he is aware that this law imposes additional burdens on his own property and additional burdens on local governments. These difficulties are much greater than those that were before a few years ago. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u194	Do you want to answer the rapporteur? Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. The absolute majority is 210. The vote was 41 against - 370, with 7 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Paragraph 83f. 6 The Senate proposes that the inspections referred to in this provision be carried out within 21 days. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. The absolute majority is 207. The vote was 36 against - 375, with two abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. Paragraph 83f. 16 The Senate proposes that the authorisation referred to in this provision be granted without the need for the property owner to pay fees. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The absolute majority is 214. 30 votes against - 397, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. The 2nd Law amending the Senate proposes clarification amendments. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. The absolute majority is 210. The vote was 31, against - 387, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 2 (2) 2 The Law amending the Senate proposes that the regulation referred to in that provision be adopted within 1 month of the date of entry into force of the Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The absolute majority is 214. 28 votes against - 393, 5 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 3 The Senate proposes that this provision of the Act enter into force on the date of the entry into force of the regulation issued pursuant to Article. Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is rejecting the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The absolute majority is 214. 30, against 395, two Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We return to the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Senate Resolution on the Act on Auditors, Auditors and Public Supervision. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment, the Senate proposes in Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2, 4 and 5 delete the words with positive results. This amendment is combined with the 3rd amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1 and 3, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The absolute majority is 216. Six votes against - 422, two Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 In its first sentence, the Senate proposes that the conclusion of the contract referred to in this provision be compulsory. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The absolute majority is 214. The vote was 3 against - 423 and 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 4, 6 to 8, 11 to 14, 17 to 19, 26, 27, 29, 30, 36 to 39 and 43 are editorial and legislative and precise. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against these amendments will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The absolute majority is 215. The vote was 3 against - 426 Members. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 5th amendment to the article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 2 (5) of the Senate proposes the addition of a reference. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The absolute majority is 214. 1 Member voted against - 425. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. Article 35 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Senate proposes that a member of the National Supervisory Commission should be excluded from the examination of audit cases of an audit firm also in the event of its conduct or conduct. This amendment is combined with the 10th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 9 and 10 would like to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm adopted the amendment unanimously. Amendments 15, 16, 25, 31 and 35 are editorial and legislative. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against these amendments will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. 338 voted against - 93, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 20th amendment to the article. Article 96 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Senate proposes to supplement the procedure for the appointment of a member of the Audit Supervisory Committee. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 20th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The absolute majority is 215. 1 Member voted against - 428. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 21st amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 3 The Senate proposes that the activities of the Audit Supervisory Board should be compulsory. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 21st amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 22nd amendment to the article. Paragraph 113. Point 2 (8) of the Senate proposes that the authorisation shall include the signature of the person empowered to issue the authorisation, stating the position or function occupied. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 22nd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. Nobody voted against - 431, 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 23rd amendment to the article. Article 127 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7 The Senate proposes to apply the Code of Administrative Procedure Act to fines. Amendment 34 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 23 and 34 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The absolute majority is 216. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 24th amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 5 The Senate proposes a different regulation for cooperative banks and cooperative credit and savings banks. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 24th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The absolute majority is 215. No one voted against - 427, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 28th amendment to the article. 136 Senate by adding paragraph. 2 and 3 propose rules on services excluded from prohibited services. This amendment is combined with the 46th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 28 and 46, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 1 Member voted against - 434. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 32nd amendment to the article. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 The Senate proposes that the resolutions on the imposition of the penalties referred to in paragraph 1. 1, apply the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 32nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. No one voted against - 435, 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 33rd amendment to the article. Article 189 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3 and 5 The Senate proposes to harmonise the rules on penalties imposed by the National Council of Auditors and the Audit Supervision Commission. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 33rd amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. One Member voted against - 431, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 40th amendment to the Act on the functioning of cooperative banks, their association and banks, the Senate proposes a new wording of point 2 of Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 40th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 41st amendment to the Railway Transport Act, the Senate proposes a new wording of paragraph 1. Point 6 (1) (a) and in Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013, the following paragraph is added: 46. Amendments 44 and 50 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is against Amendments 41, 44 and 50 would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 42nd Senate amendment by adding paragraph. Article 1a 19 of the Act on cooperative savings and credit banks proposes that in cash registers of public interest within the meaning of the Act on auditors, audit firms and public oversight the status of the cashier may provide for remuneration for members of the supervisory board. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 42nd amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. Nobody voted against - 431, 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 45th Amendment, the Senate proposes to add a transitional provision. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 45th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 47th amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 47th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 48th amendment in the new wording of Article. 288 The Senate proposes, inter alia, that the Minister responsible for Finance appoints the Audit Supervisory Board no later than 90 days after the entry into force of the Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 48th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 49th Senate amendment by adding paragraph. Article 2 292 proposes that the National Council of Auditors, setting the percentage of fees referred to in that provision, take into account the shortfalls and excess supervisory fees arising after 2017. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 49th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 1 Member voted against - 432. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We would like to refer to item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social and Family Policy on the bill amending the Act on Pension Supply of Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, Government Security Office, State Fire and Prison Service and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1521-A. We proceed to the third reading. Mrs Halina Szydlek, presenting an additional report from the committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u195	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present an additional report of the Joint Committees: the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Public Finance on a bill amending the Act on Pension Provision of Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard Office, Government Security Office, State Fire and Prison Service and some other laws, print No 1521-A. 9 amendments were tabled during the second reading. They mainly concerned the scope of pension rights for Customs officers. Today, during the work of the Joint Committees, these amendments were considered and, as a result of the vote, all rejected. On behalf of the joint committees, I recommend that the High House reject the amendments tabled at second reading and that it adopt a law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u196	Thank you, Member. The committees are bringing, as we have heard, the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1521. We will vote first on the amendments that the committees present in the additional report. In the first amendment, applicants propose to make a different wording of the Article. 1 Act on the retirement provision of officers. Amendments 2 to 8 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees request that these amendments be rejected. The question is raised by Members. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u197	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the question to the Prime Minister. Has the Prime Minister changed her mind by bringing the case before the Constitutional Court for the declaration of unconstitutionality that customs officers who sit in this Chamber do not have the so-called. Police pensions? What happened, Prime Minister, that you and the members of the Law and Justice Club of the then Duda found or disagreed with what they had previously written about? Today, you are limiting the solution that citizens are asking for and imposing different requirements on customs officers who have been uniformed for years. Why are you doing this? We tried to make these amendments. These are the corrections. Parliamentary Club [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Civic Platform to be identical allowances, pension benefits for all customs officers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u198	Thank you, Member. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u199	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, First question: How many people will this bill actually cover? There were different numbers in the committee's work, an average of 1 000. Is that true and why? Second question: How do we really define police activities here? The key to this law is police activities. And now the question is, what do we mean by these police activities, and what are these positions? It may suddenly turn out that there will be officers, civil servants and customs officers with pension rights performing police activities in the customs service. What do we mean by that password? You're welcome to respond. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u200	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 1 to 8 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 194 voted against - 233, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 9th amendment to the article. 179 of the National Tax Administration Act, the applicants propose to maintain the wording of paragraph 1. 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The vote was 201 against 226 and no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Questions were submitted to the entire bill, the project. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u201	Mr. Marshal! I regret that the Prime Minister did not reply to the Members, why she changed her mind. But there are representatives of the citizens' initiative in the Chamber, and imagine: there is a border border crossing and a customs officer works with it. The borderman will have a pension so-called. police officer, customs officer - not necessarily, because the state introduced such criteria for the execution of police activities that you limited many people's ability to use this solution. Second thing. There's no response... I would like the Prime Minister to comment on this. After the reform of the national tax administration, the ministers did not raise any question as to how many people and how many customs officers would exercise this right. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Once again I ask the Prime Minister, perhaps you will finally tell us why you spoke differently for the purpose of the campaign, and today you spread out your hands and say: I do not respect customs officers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u202	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u203	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! Politicians usually talk a lot, but it is a citizens' initiative, which is why I wanted to ask the representative of the citizens' initiative to present to us here information on the position of initiative in relation to this project, because we know that during the work in the PiS committee it changed this project very strongly and that it, as if it were not what it should be, does not fully respond to the judgment of the Constitutional Court, nor does it correspond to the sense of justice, ordinary justice, and it must be said that the PiS in the campaign promised to make up for this long-term delay, long-term injustice and to resolve this problem. It turned out that it was civil society that had to solve problems because the PiS could not. Ladies and gentlemen! Modern will vote in favour of this law despite the fact that we have a different vision of the pension system. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In today's circumstances, such a solution, which the social side has proposed, is part of the system that exists and compensates for this long-term injustice. So that we will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u204	Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u205	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have questions for the representative of the initiative group. First of all, is the bill you brought to the Sejm and the one we are debating today still the same project of yours? Because I feel like this is another project - a government project, not a civic project. My second question is also addressed to the initiative group: Do you believe that the current version of the bill is fulfilling what the Constitutional Tribunal has ordered? Because I have the impression that it's all gone somewhere, and we're really discussing different laws and ideas, which unfortunately turns out that the High House is inconsistent, because otherwise we see police, military, border guards and customs officers. It's just humanly unfair. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u206	Thank you. Mr Jacek Sasin, Mr Law and Justice, has the floor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Minister of Finance: Is it true that this law, these regulations, which are similar to those of other uniformed services, will cover all customs officers, all officers who, in accordance with the new National Tax Administration Act, will serve and will not be civil servants, that this law is the same for customs officers and other uniformed services? Because we hear a lot of false words here. How is it that only today, after so many years, when customs officers were in uniforms, their difficult service at the border, like other officers, and they couldn't wait to level with other officers, only now that there is a government of law and justice, has this matter finally been settled? Why couldn't the Civic Platform have been granted to tax collectors for eight years, who today, in accordance with this law, which today's opposition, and not so long ago, have criticized? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why did the rule of law and justice have to compensate for this injustice today? [[Time's up. Time. Time.]] I wanted to say that I, too, who, like the Prime Minister, like Mr Duda, signed these proposals, am proud that today... [[Don't pretend you can't see.]] ...at the time of the rule of law and justice, we finally dealt with this case that the Civic Platform and the PSL couldn't handle for eight years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u208	Thank you, sir. Here the representative of the government is Deputy Minister Paweł Cybulski. Would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u209	Dear Marshal, Dear High Izbo! In response to Mr Sasin's question, I would like to say that all customs officers will be included in the pension supply system. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[How many?]] [[How many? Everyone.]] I said clearly: all customs officers will be included in the pension supply system. That's the government's position. [[How many?]] Everyone. [[Applause]] [[Everyone, Krystyna.]] [[How many? He can't count the minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u210	Thank you very much. At the moment, I would like to ask the floor of a representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Mr Sławomir Grey.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u211	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! This law is definitely, you can say, a first step towards full professionalization of the service, now the Customs and Treasury Service in the National Tax Administration, and to ensure that citizens are more secure. I've translated it in committees, I think everyone understands that. It is not justified for organized crime to be pursued by officers of the age of 60 plus, and in the sphere of action the Customs and Treasury Service operates the most organized criminal groups, because it is the sphere of the most sensitive goods with high tax accumulation, namely excise duty, where in my opinion it is possible to generate an additional 20 billion PLN to the state budget. Some experts feel the same way. This is the first step towards this goal. After the second reading and after the committee meetings, I have the impression that we are close to consensus, which we can still conclude in the Senate, so I would very much ask the High House to pass this law, in accordance with the declarations which were made on behalf of all parliamentary clubs without exception during the second reading. And as I said, after today's meeting of the three joint committees, I am convinced that a consensus that will bring us closer to the full execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal - because I have to agree that a little is missing - is possible in the Senate. High Izbo! I would also like to thank you for the very wise decision taken in August 2016, when VAT on fuels was made available to the heads of customs. It's continued. Immediately afterwards, a few months later, customs officers as uniforms could deal with this matter as it should - in the field, simply in real time supervise the flow of these fuels which, as we know, flooded Poland from Germany, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and other countries of the European Union. We are overseeing this in real time, and today, thanks to it, a lot of extra money is actually coming into the budget, I think it's billions of zlotys. The turnover of Orlen or Lotos is also increasing. It's a very good decision. There is also a request to the High House, and I will speak as an officer, not as a citizen who collected signatures for this bill. Namely, the Customs-Scarb Service is to count about 10,000. at the National Tax Administration. In our view, this is too low a number and we are asking for the assistance of the High House to reduce this civilization, increase the number of officers or best to give up civilization, because the Act on National Tax Administration does not order the civilization of officers at all. There's no such obligation. Nowhere in the world has a civilisation process been carried out in the case of merger of tax authorities, as this She made a bill on National Tax Administration. This is someone's invention, unsupported by practice, as I just said, of other countries in the world, because in the European Union it is certainly all of them. I would also like to conclude by thanking, above all, the citizens who signed this project. You can see that he enjoys approval, because it's nearly 200,000. signatures collected during the holiday period, ladies and gentlemen, only by about 10,000. officers involved in this procedure. Parliamentarians who have signed the proposal to the Constitutional Tribunal, here on the part of the Law and Justice, the Prime Minister, we are very grateful to the President for this because it initiated the whole process. I would like to thank the Members, here I could list many parliamentarians, in particular the President of Halina Szydleko, who showed great determination during the work of the subcommittee. [[Applause]] and very substantively this has been carried out, Minister Jarosław Zieliński, who, you know, did probably the most on this issue, [[Applause]] Mr. Jack Sasin, Mr. Szewczak, Mrs. Butterwska, Mr. Maciejewski... [[What about me?]] ...Mr Maciejewski, yes, from Kukiz... [[What about Skowronska?]] ... Andrzej Kobylarz, mr. from Kukiz.15, Mrs. Skowronska as much as possible, Mr. Suchoni from Modern, Mr.Cichoni, Mr.Jarubas from PSL, etc., as well as the Vice-Marshals and Mr.Marshal, i.e. Thank you very much to all parliamentary clubs, because at second reading everyone expressed their support for this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u212	Thank you so much for speaking... We take this as a thank you to all Members. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1521 will want to raise your hand and press the button. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Oh, platform for? And on the committee, you abstained. What's it like?]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 425, 1 Member was against, no one abstained. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Act on Pension Supply to Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, Government Protection Office, State Fire and Prison Service and their families and some other laws. I'm calling a four-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 min 39 hours 14 min 44]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. The first question is asked by Andrzej Gawron, Jerzy Paul, Ryszard Bartosik and Anna April, the Law and Justice Club, on plans for the development of electromobility, including the innovation dimension of our economy. The question is addressed to the Minister of Development. Mr Gawron is the first question to be asked by Mr Andrzej Gawron. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u213	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Electromobility is one of the key areas identified in the Responsible Development Strategy. The electrification of the Polish automotive industry should, in our opinion, become the flywheel of the Polish industry. A plan for the development of electromobility was set up to form the basis for the development of a new competitive market. This plan was adopted by the government in March this year. According to available analyses and emerging trends, the future of the automotive market will belong to electric vehicles. In the government's plans, electromobility is not only helping to stabilise the electricity grid, improve the condition, air quality, but above all the development of an advanced industry. These are thousands of new jobs for high-quality Polish specialists and increase the export capacity of Poland. The progress of the electromobile industry is an opportunity to increase the innovation of the Polish economy, for example in obtaining new energy storage technologies. The development of this area must be based on the mutual impact of different institutions, environments and companies. It's a very big, difficult challenge. Our country should be part of the world's electric vehicle industry, but it should already be actively involved in this market.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u214	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Electric vehicles have successfully started to appear in Poland since the beginning of the 1970s. Polish producers of electric buses are a good example of the possibility of a new market. They have created a product successfully competing in global markets. It is also worth noting that more and more European cities are being invested in electromobility. Sales of electric cars in European Union countries, where there are subsidies, are constantly increasing. How the development plan is implemented in practice [[♪ The bell ♪]] Electromobility? What action is the Ministry taking in this regard? Are there threats to its full implementation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u215	Thank you very much. Mr Bartosik asked this question. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz, will answer the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u216	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I thank you very much for this question, because indeed the issues related to the development of electromobility have been, as you have noticed, included in the programme for responsible development prepared and accepted by the government. Indeed, many things have happened since the adoption of the strategy by the government to this day, which, as you have noticed, have strengthened the development of this sector, which already has some competitive advantages in Poland today. As you have pointed out, there are several producers who create finished products, but also parts and semi-finished products in the field of public transport, which are present not only on our market, but are beginning to be one of our flagship export goods. Why and what other benefits do we have in view of the development of this program? The benefits are essentially economic and social. Economic is the development of a new market with long-term growth potential. We see a clear trend from traditional diesel drives to electric drives. These directions are indicated by legal solutions adopted last year in the Netherlands, for example, which are due to enter into force in 2020, excluding the purchase and placing on the market of non-electric public transport, or there is a Norwegian model which says that since 2025 other non-electric vehicles will not be able to drive on Norwegian roads. Similar regulations related to low-carbon or zero-emission transport are adopted in most European cities. So this is the development potential, this is the market potential. Another important element is the creation of a global brand. The search for such Polish brands, thanks to which Poland would be recognizable, also continues continuously since 1989. In electric transport, public transport, we certainly have that potential. Finally, stimulation, design and production of Polish electric buses. Some of these products we already have, but surely there are still many technological challenges to overcome. Another, also no less important element is the construction of strong entities in the value chain of the production sector, because if today we are talking about electric buses, even those produced in Poland, this supply chain is colonized so to about 40%. We all know very well that the extension of this production supply chain in Poland is also the greater value that stays in the Polish economy. I don't have to talk about social benefits, it's about improving the quality of life in cities, reducing noise, reducing emissions. We estimate that the market for the production of electric buses will reach PLN 2.5 billion by 2025. Production by 2025 in Poland can reach 1 000. electric buses per year. At the same time, we assume that 1 000 will be implemented by 2021. electric buses in Polish cities. We see that city purchasing policy is also very conducive to this change. The actions that have already been taken. The first thing that allows us at all these estimates that I have just presented to you is to sign a letter of intent with 41 cities on 20 February in the Ministry of Development. This is 41 cities that have declared their willingness to purchase electric public transport. Together with the signing of this letter, we have set ourselves three goals. Firstly, the creation of dedicated purchasing support programmes for these cities, because today the electric bus is twice as expensive as the new diesel bus, and therefore the mitigation of risks for local governments, which decide to buy more expensive products - we would like to take it on ourselves together with the national environmental fund. The creation of financial instruments is therefore the first objective. The second goal is to create good practices, because few cities in Poland already have this infrastructure. Building charging infrastructure is a serious logistical and analytical issue. We create such a catalogue of good practices together with these cities. Another very important element is the revision of the partnership agreement, which today does not exclude the possibility of purchasing new generation diesel buses. Thus, within the framework of the so-called. A low-carbon transport national environmental fund cannot refuse to support the purchase of a new bus, diesel, because this is how the partnership agreement was written. The new provision of the Partnership Agreement was adopted by the Standing Committee of the Council of Ministers. We hope that by the end of May it will be adopted by the government, so that by the end of June - in June, July - it will be amended in a partnership agreement with the European Commission. The amendment of this provision is absolutely fundamental and crucial so that the purchase of a means of transport other than zero-emission cannot be financed under regional operational programmes. Zero-emission means it can't be diesel, which means it doesn't have to be just an electrician, it can be hydrogen drives, future drives. Another important element that stimulates the development of this market in Poland is the adoption by the Council of Ministers of 16 March of a plan for the development of electromobility and, more importantly, a referral to inter-ministerial consultations on electromobility. On 27 April, this law was addressed to consultation. Talks and meetings with the industry are already ongoing with the cities. It's going to be big next week. [[♪ The bell ♪]] meeting with urban transport companies. An important element of support, also financial, is the competition announced in the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development for the implementation of pilot R &amp; D projects by small and medium-sized enterprises and such also in the field of electromobility operate. They're not just big integrators who eventually release something that's big, has a lot of wheels and drives around town. Those who create subsystems for buses are often small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. For them, a competition was announced in the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development as part of the action: Research on the market. The competition was also announced at the National Centre for Research and Development. This is a large competition under the new Innovation Partnership Instrument, dedicated to bus integrators, where the final entity is defined, and thus cities from a group of those cities that have signed agreements with us. The project assumes that in January 2019 electric buses of the next generation, i.e. those which are not yet in production, will be able to go to the streets of Polish cities.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u217	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development Jadwiga Emilewicz: At the same time, by the end of June, a financial instrument will be launched in the national environmental fund, which will finance the purchase of electric buses, which are already ongoing, in cities which have declared such purchases. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question is asked by Mrs Anna April.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u218	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! We are very excited about this information, especially in the area of cooperation with local authorities, because the signing of these letters of intent is a very important step in the implementation of this programme. But here's the question. I wanted to ask about the creation and operation of ElectroMobility Poland, which is part of the development plan for electromobility and the opportunity for development for Polish industry and science and a tool to strengthen economic growth. At what stage, Minister, is the creation of this entity? At this stage, is this entity already taking concrete action to achieve its objectives and mission? I have another question about the electric car, but the passenger car. Is there any work going on - here a fellow Member tells me in this respect - if there's an idea, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are there any jobs going on? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u219	Thank you very much. This question will also be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u220	Mrs. Marshal! Mrs. Member! I am happy to answer this question, although it is not in my actual competence, because ElectroMobility Poland was set up by three energy companies as a special purpose company. As an entity of commercial law, it was established at the end of last year. The first action she took was to organize a competition for electric cars. This company is dedicated especially to the development of electric cars. This contest is going on, I want it settled, if I remember correctly, by the end of May. And this is the first stage of her activity. I don't know the company's business plans, I don't know what the next steps are. We in the Ministry of Development have prepared a review of what has been done in Poland in the field of electric vehicles in general, i.e. what research work has been done at the National Centre for Research and Development, what we have on the table, what is the potential, whether we can actually develop this sector. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the cooperation agreement signed last year with Toyota, which plans to develop the production line of hybrid engines in Poland, is also the factor that will cause, we hope, the development of this market, the transition to individual electromobility also in Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u221	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the second question. The question is asked by Włodzimierz Karpiński and Zdzisław Gawlik, the Civic Platform. This is a question about interrupting the investment process of Puławy Power Plant - to the Minister of Development. The question is asked by Mr Włodzimierz Karpiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u222	Thank you very much. Minister! Mrs. Marshal! The Minister has just spoken of a low- and zero-emission economy in the electromobility programme. My question is convinced, Minister, with what you said, because it is a surprising thing to stop investment under the name Puławy Power Plant, an investment that was preceded by many years of analysis in terms of fuel - from where energy would be generated - whether it be coal or gas. These analyses indicated that it would be gas after all. The Minister, during the preparation of the investment process and the start of this process, as you know, was granted a building permit preceded by environmental decisions. Local and local municipalities changed spatial planning plans. It is an investment approved in the strategy of the Grupa Azoty, building the strength of the largest company in this group Puławy, the most profitable company, having the best technological effects in terms of chemical processes, energy processes, with an excellent staff of the Grupa Azoty Puławy, the largest investment for a decade in Lublin, since it was implemented shafts in the Bogdanka mine, also in previous governments. And my question comes down to why it is, because today it is completely incomprehensible to stop this investment. And please don't answer... Because I understand that it's corporate governance and that it's corporate decisions, but I'm afraid there was a political factor here. And please tell me whether Members of the Lublin District, and especially Members of Law and Justice, have not intervened in this matter and had no influence on this decision, because this is clearly an incomprehensible matter in terms of job creation, the highest technologies, the high-skilled, that is all. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Ministry actually has the banners of its office. And it's a good thing you have these banners. It's a good thing you have these banners. I completely do not understand why this investment, after such an effort, was interrupted and reduced to modernization of the old power plant for solid fuel, for coal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u223	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u224	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! I would be happy to answer that question without seeing the contradiction between the answer to the first question and the answer to the second question. I'll even show the coincidence between the electromobility promotion program and the Azota Group's decision. Although, of course, I must warn you, bearing in mind that the Azota Group is a stock company. With regard to the above-mentioned corporate governance objection, I can only answer as much as we know what the substantive basis for this decision was. Indeed, on 31 March the Grupa Azoty Puławy decided to close the tender for the selection of a general contractor for the construction of a gas block after obtaining the supervisory board's consent to carry out preparations for the construction of a coal-based building block project. And referring to questions about whether or not someone was pressing this issue, I inform you that I do not recall anyone calling me on this matter, and, as I know it, no one has called Prime Minister Morawiecki on this matter. The decision on technological change was taken as a result of several months of analytical work. These analytical work, which is also important, has been attended by stakeholders who have been preparing this analysis for several years. Therefore, it is not so, ahead of potential other questions, that analytical entities have been changed, because they were PwC Polska, and Ramboll Poland, and Energoproject-Katowice, and thus those who prepared and previous analyses took part in this process. The decision to suspend the investment was based on the results of the analysis, which pointed to the lack of efficiency and cost-effectiveness of the investment, as well as the impact on technological security and production capacity of the Grupa Azoty. It is difficult to agree with the conclusions on these three years of detailed preparation, because many of the elements of the studies that have been prepared, which were the basis for the March decision, point to significant shortcomings in previous analytical work. Indeed, such broad action was taken in April 2016. What kind of action is that? In particular, work was carried out on the analysis of the Azoty Group's internal electricity network, which was intended to issue the conditions for power extension to the network in the event of a lack of power supply. These work sets out the costs of modernising the internal network. The macro-economic data on fuel pricing, energy were then updated, taking into account everything related to the European ETS. The financial model has also been updated and the actual level of savings related to the implementation of the self-producer concept has been updated. The previous model does not include this, and this is very important, I think, in the whole macroeconomic model, that the Azota Group is considered to be an energy-intensive company and bears only 15% the costs of redeployment of green certificates - this is the thread I mentioned earlier, i.e. in the ETS system. The expenditures that the Azota Group had to undertake have been verified; as I say, a broad macroeconomic model. Instead of the investments of PLN 1.1 billion in the previous management board, they would actually amount to more than PLN 1.9 billion, less than PLN 2 billion. That's a pretty important difference. The particularly important irregularity identified was the fact that the project would continue after the withdrawal from the cooperation of the Polish Energy Group in December 2014. Mr Azoty points out that the surplus production from the previous block was intended to feed the national energy system, but you did not ask yourself who would sell energy to which the Grupa Azoty would sell, whose cost of production without the cost of certificates and transmission would be at least 20% higher than market prices and who would subsidise this price difference. As I said, deep and thorough analytical work has been carried out, and therefore the necessity, first of all, to double the investment expenditure was one of the elements which became the basis for such a decision by the management board of the company. What is also important and what is worth noting... It should also be mentioned, also in the context of the Juncker plan mentioned by the Member, that on the list of projects submitted to the so-called. Juncker's plan is the investment of the Grupa Azota in Puławy, i.e. modernization of nitric acid installation and construction of new nitric acid installations, neutralization of products [[♪ The bell ♪]] new nitrogenic acid-based fertilisers. A memorandum on this matter was sent in 2016. In conclusion, the decision taken by the Management Board from our perspective is a decision taken on the basis of an in-depth micro- and macroeconomic analysis indicating significant differences in costs and benefits. In our view, it is a legitimate decision, although as I say, that was agreed by the board of directors by the supervisory board. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u225	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, Mr Włodzimierz Karpiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u226	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! But you didn't show coincidence between the zero-emission and electromobile economy and my question, because the fact is there's going to be a coal power plant and it's going to be gas. It is even worse than I thought, because I thought it would be PLN 1.1 billion - the biggest industrial investment in Lublin, and you say almost PLN 2 billion. This investment, as you know perfectly well, was also included in the European Strategic Investment Programme, i.e. the so-called. Juncker's plan. This investment was also in agreement with the Polish bank, Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, and I am surprised... I respect the decision of the board and corporate governance, whatever it would be, how personal it is - that's what I'm not asking here, I'm asking about politics. Minister Naimski opens the Norwegian Corridor and looks for customers for 10 billion m3 of gas per year. Here would be 1 billion m3 right away, just like that. 44 blocks, 200 MW we're supposed to turn off probably by 2020, so I'm asking you, [[♪ The bell ♪]] what this decision looks like in the context of the whole economy and whether there was political pressure on change, because it is worse when it comes to environmental protection, we are giving up European funding and at the same time President Kaczyński says that bad entrepreneurs and local governments do not invest especially, and you are giving up investment worth PLN 2 billion. That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u227	Thank you very much, sir. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u228	Mr President, if you'll excuse me, I really don't understand what you're saying. On the one hand, we are talking about the fact that we have market players and the Azoty Group is a market entity and makes sovereign decisions. I wanted to show you the basis on which she made a sovereign economic decision. I do not understand why you want to justify a waste of company money, if we say that you can make an investment for PLN 1.1 billion instead of PLN 1.9 billion. Please tell me in what economic model of running a business someone who runs a business will not give up an investment for PLN 1.9 billion if he has an investment for PLN 1.1 billion at his disposal; this basis, this syllogism I do not understand. Also point two, on political pressure. I think I answered that question clearly. As I say, the decision was made by the board of directors of the company, which is, I remind you, a stock exchange company. Point three. As far as the level of investment is concerned, we do not withdraw because the investment in Lublin will be carried out, also the investment included in Juncker's plan. Besides, within the Grupa Azoty several strategic investments of modern technology will also be carried out, this is not the only one. As I say, Zakłady Azotowe w Kędzierzyna-Koźl will also carry out an ambitious energy investment, as well as plants in the Police related to the production of substances necessary for the production of fertilisers. These are three huge technological, modern and innovative investments, which will be made with significant support from European funds - whether from Juncker's plan or from the Operational Programme - Smart development - in cooperation with the Polish Development Fund. Therefore, I do not see any other answer to the question if, as I say, the macroeconomic analysis has clearly pointed out that the financial viability of the previous investment is low. As for the lack of correlation between what I said and electromobility, I will remind you that classic large heating installations in Poland, those which are powered by coal, are one of the cleanest installations in our country at all. The problem of air quality in Poland is not large heating installations, but so-called. low emissions problem. Technologies related to air purification and emissions not only of carbon dioxide, but also of suspended dust, sulphur oxides are used as part of modern, extremely modern installations, which are the result of research and development work carried out in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u229	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the third question. The question is asked by Members Jacek Sasin and Łukasz Schreiber, Law and Justice, on the instructions issued by the national tax administration's management to tax administrations and tax authorities on control proceedings. The question is addressed to the Minister of Finance. The question is asked by Mr Jacek Sasin.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u230	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Parliamentarians! High Izbo! Minister! Recently, information about the letter, the instructions sent by the National Tax Administration to the heads of customs and treasury offices appeared in the media. It is stated in this letter, as stated, as regards the reduction of the duration of checks and the approach in controlled cases to taxpayers. First question: What was the content of these guidelines and what was the origin of these guidelines, and was this genesis related to the situation that had so far taken place during these checks? This is primarily about the long-term conduct of these controls, which not only often made it very difficult to conduct business, but also could lead to the collapse of companies in many cases through its nuisance. Another element, which was extremely burdensome for economic operators, was the frequent treatment of companies that inadvertently participated in criminal VAT fraud - they took part, even though they had just made every effort to check their contractors - like criminal companies. Those were very common signals. It turned out that such an honest company by not being able to verify other entities involved in the transaction despite the care it took was treated as a company which took part in a criminal VAT carousel or in this business, and was actually the only one that could be captured as legally acting, it was punished. This caused that often honest entrepreneurs and honest companies were punished and often also brought into bankruptcy. Whether it's a handwriting, that instruction will change just now. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This state of affairs?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u231	Thank you very much, sir. The question is answered by the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance, Minister Piotr Walczak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u232	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! Thank you very much, sir, for this question. In fact, I confirm, on 24 March 2017, that I recommended to the directors of the tax administrations and the heads of the tax offices that, in view of the large number of pending and unfinished checks - I would like to remind you that on 1 March the National Tax Administration Act entered into force, these checks, which we are talking about here, are checks previously carried out by the tax authorities, i.e., in short, tax checks - these authorities have maintained particular diligence in order to carry them out quickly and complete them as soon as possible. In the WW. I drew attention to the need for the KAS authorities to take into account in assessing the existence of abuse of the right to deduct VAT indications from the rulings of the Court of Justice of the European Union in matters relating to value added tax. The proper conduct of such an assessment by the KAS authorities is essential to safeguard the interests of taxable persons who ensure that their counterparties and the interests of the Treasury are verified in cases where entities knowingly participate in transactions generating tax risks. Of course, it is mainly about the scope of VAT. The Court of Justice stresses that the right to deduct VAT should be refused if it is proved on the basis of objective grounds that the exercise of that right would entail a crime or abuse. This means that the taxable person knew or should have known that by acquiring the goods he had participated in a transaction related to a VAT offence. It should be considered incorrect to refuse to exercise the right of deduction by a taxable person who did not know and could not know that the supplier committed a crime in the course of the transaction or that another transaction in the supply chain carried out before or after the transaction carried out by that taxable person was in breach of the provisions of the VAT Act. It follows from the judgment of the Court of Justice C 80/11 and C 142/11 cited above that it is not contrary to European Union law to require a taxable person to take all the measures reasonably expected of him to ensure that his transaction does not lead to a tax offence. If, therefore, the taxable person has information to suspect the existence of an irregularity or offence, he may be required to obtain information on the entity from which he intends to acquire the goods or services in order to ascertain his reliability. In the WW. I have also pointed out that it is the authority's responsibility to provide evidence that there are objective circumstances which entitle the taxpayer to verify its counterparties. The evidence thus obtained allows further assessment of whether the taxable person, being obliged, has given due care to ensure that the transaction giving rise to the deduction did not involve a crime committed by the supplier or another entity operating in the earlier or further supply chain. I would like to point out that so far there have been two fundamental problems in the functioning of the tax authorities that have hit our entrepreneurs. The first problem was the long-term control. One of the reasons for issuing these guidelines is the attempt to shorten this inspection time. Of course, any control may be extended for objective reasons, for example because of verification in another Member State of the European Union of the transaction concerned. However, I draw attention to the fact that the long-term control has often been associated with a blockage in the payment of VAT, which, unfortunately, has sometimes led to a deterioration in the financial situation of the entity, which has even led to the bankruptcy of that entity. The second part of these guidelines, in some way in conclusion, concerns the approach to the taxpayer. Until now, the taxpayer, even the one who tried very carefully to verify his counterparty, but in fact also became the subject of criminal activity, because he took part unconsciously in the VAT carousel or other activity used to extort VAT, was unfortunately often the victim of this action. The tax authority treated it as actively involved in acts which are de facto legalised in the Tax Code, not to mention tax proceedings here, not to mention the refusal to refund input value added tax. Each of the ladies and gentlemen of the House will surely be associated with cases where, unfortunately, this has led to the bankruptcy of entities employing a large number of employees and generating a steady profit for the state budget. These guidelines are designed to prevent this. Of course, this applies, I stress, to certain developments related to the operation of the Act on tax control at that time. Today's National Tax Administration Act, which transforms these checks into a similar tool, but of a completely different nature, which today we call customs and treasury controls, no longer has these disadvantages. I am therefore convinced that such cases will be incidental, not as they have been in the past, when unfortunately there have been frequent abuses. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in this respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u233	Thank you very much. And you're welcome... Are you still an MP? Here you go, question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u234	Yes, very briefly, Marshal, very briefly. Minister, thank you very much for this information. They will undoubtedly be pleased by Polish entrepreneurs, who will certainly be less afraid to expect these checks. However, I would like to ask you one more question. Namely, I am aware that we are talking, as the Minister said, about certain developments, checks carried out by the tax authorities, which were resolved two months ago in connection with the entry into force of the National Tax Administration Act. At the moment, these checks will be carried out by customs and treasury offices, but in a large part they will be the same officials, the same people who will carry out these checks. I have this concern, or that certain habits that have been acquired over the years by these inspection persons will not continue despite these guidelines, despite this letter, to determine that these checks will be carried out in a similar way. Does the management therefore [[♪ The bell ♪]] The National Tax Administration, the Minister provides for any monitoring of how these checks are carried out?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u235	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Minister Piotr Walczak answers the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u236	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Thank you so much for that question. Of course, it is absolutely right, because it is undoubtedly a fact. The biggest problem in tax administrations is the question of mentality and we must fight it. Therefore, in this letter of 24 March, one of the guidelines is to carry out continuous monitoring. I would like to stress that, as part of the statutes of the Chambers, we have established within the framework of an institution which oversees the work of the heads of customs and treasury offices, the branch of supervision in this area in tax administrations. This post under the direction of the Vice-Director, who operates in each of the voivodships, deals with the supervision of customs and treasury controls and old tax checks, which are still ongoing, which have been initiated either by the former tax inspection offices or currently under customs and treasury control by the heads of customs and treasury offices. It is absolutely in these guidelines that vice-directors overseeing this subject should constantly monitor the problem of the length of control and the approach to taxpayers, in order to rule out the pathologies we are discussing here, which have undoubtedly taken place over the last 26 years of the independent state. I stress that, of course, this is not only a question of monitoring individual cases, but also of monitoring overall, which is in fact a constant reduction in the duration of checks. These issues will, of course, also be possible due to technological change. I stress the new initiatives that have already been implemented or are being carried out by the finance department, for example with regard to the single control file, the data base and a few other initiatives that in some way inform the data needed for control. This, we deeply believe, will cause one fundamental thing: not only will the taxpayer not be exposed to such frequent control, but, above all, the controller from the National Tax Administration who will come to him will already have a preliminary analysis carried out on the basis of the data that are available to him. Therefore, this audit will only be based on sampling and on a method of interpolation and the translation of these results. It's already on the source files. Therefore, the duration of the checks will certainly be reduced. These guidelines also concern the fact that we will monitor this and will require the heads of customs and treasury offices to reduce the burden on our taxpayers all the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u237	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the fourth question. This question is asked by Mr Andrzej Halicki and Mr Jan Grabiec, the Civic Platform, on the conduct of police against persons participating and witnesses of the assembly at the Sejm at night from 16 to 17 December 2016. The question is addressed to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. The question is asked by Mr Andrzej Halicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u238	Yes, sir, thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Delegate, so numerous! I hope we're going to have a specific conversation because I wanted to mention, first of all, two very important articles of the Police Act, starting with the article. 1, you remember perfectly well: the police are used to protect his safety. Society. Art. 58 is also famous because we've talked about this before. Art. 58 Police Act: A police officer is obliged to refuse to execute an illegal order. We're dealing with police activities that need to be appalled. They can't just be swept under the rug. In fact, the message from the police office confirms what we were talking about and what we asked at the conference with Mr Grabce on 5 May, before the March of Liberty. But let's leave it at that. I'm not putting this convergence as a key issue right now. We were informed that about 100 people were being harassed by the police without prior notice, that there was an attempt to transport them to the police stations to testify and press charges - charges of four types, but of curiosities, because of the allegations of participation in an illegal assembly, violations of public order, i.e. insubordination, and of preventing Members from working. In a few cases, a transport to the police station took place. Most of the refusal was so effective that the police at that time called the police station to several Warsaw police stations; this also applies to people from outside Warsaw. I'm talking about this quite specifically because we have specific testimony on this issue. This call was the next day when it was delivered at an hour. 18, or, when it was this morning, there was an attempt to call for the same day, the same afternoon. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's right, and that's the trouble...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u239	You're welcome. Quickly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u240	...because we can't describe the cases that are annoying. I would therefore like to confirm once again: the police cannot act on behalf of a party or government and serve to protect security. He must respect civil rights. Bulverizing issues - probably in reply. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u241	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister. Minister Jarosław Zieliński, State Secretary at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u242	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Speaker! December 16th, approx. hour 18.15, it began spontaneously - here I have written in quotes - a public assembly in front of the building of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland aimed at, as declared by the calling of this assembly, quote, expressing protest against the restriction of media access to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. In connection with this assembly, the district police chief Warsaw I decided to order police action. Due to the constantly increasing number of people, then blocking the entrance gates to the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland and crossing the street. The village and Matejka, and the associated necessity to direct police forces outside the capital garrison, the police chief ordered the police operation. About an hour zero, an hour. At 12 a.m., those who were actively involved in this assembly, and their conduct showed that they were actually in the direction of this assembly, called on the participants to leave. These people are known for organizing such gatherings: Mateusz Kijowski and Piotr Wieczorek. Since the participants did not comply with the information provided and continued to block departures from the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, ca. h. 0.15 Police Chief in charge of police operations has decided to terminate the public assembly. Messages about the assembly's termination were given by police sounders. About an hour. 1.05 One of the leaders of the assembly again, through the publicity measures made available by the police, called on the protestors to complete the blocking of the departure from the Polish Parliament and the departure. Despite these attempts, those attending the convention remained in place. At the same time, the police turned to people blocking the intersection of the street. The village and Matejka about legal behaviour, and in particular about getting off the road. It was decided to remove persons who did not comply with the call of officers from the lane. During these activities, apart from physical strength, the police did not use any other means of direct coercion or other repressive measures against demonstrators. In the course of the on-the-spot action, prevention personnel carried out an act of legitimacy against 101 persons whose identity was confirmed. In connection with these events, which took place in front of the Parliament of the Republic of Poland on the night of 16th to 17th December 2016, on 20th December 2016 an investigation was initiated in the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Warsaw, sygn. Act PO I Ds. 2005/16, on 16 and 17 December 2016 in Warsaw at ul. The village 4/6/8 in the seat of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and its immediate vicinity of the use of violence against Members of the Sejm VIII term and other persons in order to prevent them from moving freely within the territory of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and leaving it and thus exerting influence on the official activities of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland VIII term, i.e. for an act of art. 191 § 1 of the Penal Code in conjunction with Article. § 224 § 1 of the Penal Code in conjunction with Article. 11 § 1 of the Penal Code. This investigation was entrusted to the Chief Investigative and Investigative Department of the Police Department. On 23 January 2017, in connection with the action announced by a natural person on social media, which called for the submission of a statement on the website concerning participation in the spontaneous assembly on 16 and 17 December 2016 before the Polish Parliament, we all remember this action, a total of 81 people applied to the Police Headquarters. None of these people were in the group of 101 people identified by the police at the scene. These persons have made such statements. Out of all the established, i.e. 182 witnesses identified by the police and those who made these statements, the police questioned 37 witnesses, while the prosecutor warned that five people should be interviewed personally. The decision as to how these persons will be questioned will be taken by the prosecutor. In the WW. no criminal proceedings are being conducted at this stage in the investigation of any of the persons authorised and those who made a statement in response to the appeal. None of them have been accused of committing a crime in this case. On the other hand, procedural proceedings are under way in the form of hearings. persons as witnesses. To date, 23 registered witnesses and 14 persons who made the statements cited above have been interviewed as witnesses. Regardless of the above, the Prosecutor of the District Attorney's Office in Warsaw, on the basis of the material collected, issued an order to file charges against eight suspects and questioned them in this capacity, i.e. suspects. These people weren't registered by the police at the time of the incident. this assembly, nor did they make statements in connection with the events in question, so they were still different from those of these two groups. These were the other persons established during the preparatory procedure. The alleged suspects were accused of acts committed in the Article. 216 § 1 of the Penal Code, which concerned insulting the camera operator, art. § 217 § 1 of the Penal Code, which concerned an infringement of personal immunity, and Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Press Law, which concerned the obstruction of the reporter's live coverage. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Can I still ask for an extension of time?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u243	Yes, you're welcome. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: I'd like to finish because maybe there'll be extra questions, and that's the whole thing. You're welcome, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: The referee did not issue an order in this case to bring any persons in for questioning as witnesses. Therefore, the police have not carried out any lead on this procedure, so what you have said is simply not true. As demonstrated by further procedural actions, 87 people are subject to conditions - all of these persons were previously registered by the police in connection with the above mentioned. by events - that they have committed offences that have been committed under the Code of Offences Act. It is a matter of Article. 52 § 3 point 3 of the Code of Offences: who refuses to leave the place of assembly after its dissolution - there is a fine to be punished - and art. 90 Code of Offences: Who tames or hinders traffic by public road in the zone of residence or in the area of traffic - also fine punishment. On 3 April 2017 copies of the above-mentioned materials were received from the Police Department of Investigation and Investigation of the Police Department. investigations to initiate investigations into criminal offences. The prosecutor stressed that further delay in the procedural settlement of offences could result in the risk of limitation of those offences. Consequently, up to 62 persons, of the above mentioned persons. 87 persons on whom there is a reasonable basis to refer an application to the court for their punishment were sent a summons to appear at the Warsaw I District Police Command, and 25 persons were asked for legal assistance on account of their place of residence. To date, a total of 43 persons have been questioned as guilty, who have been accused of the offences described above. The summons of witnesses to hearings in both preparatory and criminal proceedings shall take place on the basis of applicable rules, i.e. by properly served calls by post. In cases of knowledge that a person may not be present at his/her place of residence, other activities shall be undertaken. In one case, the hearing was carried out at the request of the witness at his place of residence due to his health and age. Most of the witnesses' hearings were commissioned as legal assistance to the police organization in accordance with their place of residence. High Izbo, summing up the above information and referring to the questions asked by Mr Grabiec, will probably still ask the question, I kindly inform you, first of all, that at night from 16 to 17 December 2016 police officers identified a total of 101 people in the area of the Polish Parliament. As a result of the statements made in response to the online call, another 81 others were identified. Secondly, the District Police Command of Warsaw I conducts investigations in cases of offences against a total of 87 persons previously identified by the police, who during the night of 16 to 17 December 2016 may have violated the law. Thirdly, no instructions were given in all pending cases relating to this incident in both the preparatory proceedings and the infringement cases concerning the implementation of the investigations. And fourthly, the District Attorney's Office in Warsaw overseeing this investigation entrusted the execution of the activities of evidence to police officers of the Investigation and Investigation Department of the Capital Police Department. So far, the District Prosecutor's Office in Warsaw has issued an order to file charges against eight suspects on the basis of the material collected and questioned them in this capacity. These persons were not registered in connection with the events in question. The alleged suspects were accused of criminalised acts - I will repeat this once again at the end - in the article. 216 § 1 of the Penal Code, Art. 217 § 1 of the Penal Code and Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Press law. And I'm going to add one last thing, because there may also be questions about the publication of images, and I'd like to warn you that the police have published images of 23 people. Eight persons were identified as a result of these publications, the same persons came forward after the publication of the images and those eight persons were accused. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Please, Mr Andrzej Halicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u244	Thank you. But that's the problem, sir, that you can't cover yourself with this statistics. The key question is: What is the social interest or what is the interest of the state in the fact that you are throwing so much force at people and citizens who have not violated the law, have acted peacefully, and, moreover, some of them have been written down, for example. at the bus stop, and today you're looking for people in this register of registered persons and you're trying to charge them, notabene without prior mail service, and, of course, also trying to eliminate the possibility of full defense? This can't happen, and I'm talking to your cops again, to your cops, because the thing is fundamental, and I'm sorry, because I'm about to have the bell again...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u245	Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u246	...but if yesterday also repeated such actions that do not have a legal basis: holding four cars of the OSA after a judicial decision, i.e. the possibility of carrying out [[♪ The bell ♪]] a legal demonstration in these places, so that they do not arrive at the place with equipment and banners, arrest of elderly people, a 78-year-old woman, a lady from Piaseczna or an 80-year-old master, a transfer to a diabetic police station, described by the OKO portal of the mother who wanted to enter the Sejm, because there was a discussion about ellaOne, she was not allowed, she was in Krakow Przedmieście, also subject to action...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u247	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u248	...restrictive... This can't be right. The police must not be subject to law and justice, I speak by name, because the messenger pointed to who should be stopped, and the police followed these orders. They were transported to Wolf's or other precincts...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u249	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u250	...people who shouldn't be there at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u251	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u252	The documents were retained by the person who was ordered to stand and who could not move around the city. That's illegal, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u253	Mr President, I must ask you to finish your speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u254	I was gonna say it used to be like this, it can't be like this. We know these precincts very well from the inside, and it can't happen again...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u255	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u256	...as it used to be. The police don't act on behalf of the party. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u257	Thank you very much, sir. I'm asking you to follow the time. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u258	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Members, Mr. Speaker! Please do not encourage the Polish Police not to react to the violation of the law. In Poland there is freedom, everyone can organize a legal assembly, a demonstration, a demonstration - however we do it they called - and these assemblies take place very much. At a time when the Law and Justice are in power, there are many such gatherings, and the police ensure security for all. There's no such provocation as your day, even during the holiday of independence. The police aren't provoking, the police are protecting, the police are ensuring the safety of the participants and those who are next to them are ensuring safety. Our great pride, the pride of the Polish Police, is that it can respond to such a response, i.e. to ensure security, regardless of the colour of these gatherings. But if someone breaks the law, the police have to react. That's where we're dealing with a situation where the law was broken. The police cannot tolerate such a situation because we would lead to anarchy in the state, something that would contradict the idea of a democratic rule of law. The law exists, the law applies, it applies to everyone and it must be respected. It binds citizens, it also binds, maybe even in the first place, the police, so please judge it in these categories. And no one uses the police for political purposes, sir. You're the ones who used the police for purposes... [[Interesting.]] ...political, just like it was during the holiday of independence on November 11th. Then you declared before these dates your attitude toward those who were to gather together. The police listened to it, the police reacted as the police told the police that their politicians were overseeing it. We are far from it, we do not do it and we will never do it, but we expect from all those who organize the assemblies whether they are organized according to the law, whether they are those, also organized according to the law, so-called. spontaneous, if they are genuinely spontaneous... At one convention or another, the law must be observed. This is where I mentioned two names of people who cooperated with the police. Please note that these are people known for organising such demonstrations. They were just calling for a break-up because this assembly had been dissolved. Some didn't listen to these calls, and they didn't listen to police calls either. Do you remember how someone was lying in front of a car on the road? [[That's not the group we're talking about.]] I was blocked either from leaving the Sejm or from the Sejm, but this involved a lot of Members, didn't it? Those were the facts known. After all, ladies and gentlemen, remember that time. Don't tell me, but that's my opinion except for the answers to the questions that it was a spontaneous demonstration. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But whatever. Even if it were spontaneous, everyone would still have to obey the law, and those who did not obey the law would have to suffer the consequences. And that's it. Whatever authority, who will be in power, we must do so and respect the law. It is allowed to demonstrate to everyone, to express the views that anybody wants, who has, but according to the law and under the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u259	Thank you very much, Minister. Welcome to the fifth question. The question is asked by Members Beata Mazurek and Jan Mosiński, Law and Justice, on the current situation in the labour market against other European countries to the Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy. The first question is asked by Mrs Beata Mazurek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u260	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Recent data from the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy show that the situation on the labour market in Poland is improving. At the end of April this year. the rate of registered unemployment was 7.7% And it was 0.4%. less than a month earlier. The number of unemployed workers registered has decreased to 1252 000. persons. These are therefore unheard of values for many years. I would therefore like to ask the Minister when the level of unemployment in Poland has been so low for the first time and which has mainly contributed to this situation. What kind of action did the Ministry take to reduce unemployment so significantly? We know that, regardless of the overall situation in the country, unemployment varies strongly regionally and even at the level of voivodships, there are large disparities in unemployment rates. The highest value is still recorded in Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship, but also in Zachodniopomorskie, Kujawsko-Pomorskie or Podkarpackie. Therefore, please inform whether these positive trends in numbers, registered unemployment rates apply to all voivodships or only to the best developed ones. Despite the record low level of unemployment, more than half of the registered unemployed are long-term unemployed. And it's a group of over 700,000. people and, at the same time, it can be said with certainty that they are the most difficult clients of employment offices. They require special care and assistance so that they can return to the labour market on a permanent basis and that employers who are today faced with staff problems do not fear their employment. This raises the question of how long-term unemployed people can be helped and how they are involved in the activated unemployed. Finally, I think it is also worth paying attention to how the situation in Poland is shaped against the background of the European Union. In the year of our accession, the unemployment rate [[♪ The bell ♪]] in Poland it was 19.4% versus 9,3% in the Union. This means that the indicator in Poland was more than 10 percentage points higher than in the European Union. At the same time, we were a country with the highest unemployment rate against other countries. Over the years, however, the situation is improving from year to year, and today we are a country with an index lower than the EU average. I would therefore ask you to present the current situation in this area and to indicate Poland's position as regards the unemployment rate in the countries of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u261	Thank you very much, Member. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Stanisław Szwed, answers the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u262	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! Thank you so much for that question. And I can only confirm that we actually have the best situation in our country for 26 years when it comes to the labour market. The unemployment rate is 7.7% , is lower than last month's level by 0,4 percentage points. As far as absolutes are concerned, this is 1252,000. people who are unemployed. And if we compare April to April, it's less than 270 grand. It's a significant drop. And if we compare it to years before that, for example. By 2003, we have a drop in unemployment of over 2 million, which is very good news. It is also worth mentioning here the unemployment rate in individual voivodships. If we take into account the map of Poland, then, of course, traditionally the highest unemployment rate is in such voivodships as. Warmińsko-Mazurskie, Zachodniopomorskie, but also from this scale above 20% we went down in Warmińsko-Mazurskie voivodship to 13.3%, which means we also have a low unemployment rate. And on the other side, we have 4.6%. when it comes to the Wielkopolska voivodship, that is, we have a very good situation here. And if we go even lower, which is to the level of powiats or cities, from this best level below 2% is the city of Poznań. Traditionally, the city of Szydłowiec is always such an example where the highest unemployment rate is in the city. There, the unemployment rate is still above 20%. But these actions, which I am about to talk about, contribute to the fact that the situation on the labour market is good. But of course, she also asked about long-term unemployed issues. It is also worth saying here that if we are talking about the resources of people who are unemployed, it is more than 56% These are people who are unemployed over 12 months, so-called. long-term unemployed, which is a large proportion of people who are more difficult to activate. So that the actions we take in the Ministry are directed on the one hand to help those who are long-term unemployed, but also to transfer funds to those areas where unemployment is highest. Here are examples of several programmes. Of course, in this group of long-term unemployed, in all statistics, there are two groups that are most vulnerable to unemployment. These are young people - I'll narrow it down to 30 years old, although there are different categories here. Here, too, we have a decline in this group of people in terms of unemployment rates. And the second group exposed are people over the age of 50. The Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy is trying to put forward proposals in this direction, but also measures to improve this situation decisively. In 2016, more than 500 thousand benefited from the activation programmes implemented by the Ministry. persons. In this first period of January-March this year more than 113 thousand have already benefited. This is a large number of people that we activate. But it is worth showing here another factor, namely that in this respect also efficiency is improving, i.e. those who will benefit from these offers, in more than 70% They are still working, which means there is a good effect when it comes to activation issues. We have a program up to the age of 30, we have programs in which reliefs are also directed for those who employ people over the age of 50. I think it is worth saying here in the context of what you have asked about the European Union. How do we look in front of the European Union? Today we look good because we're in seventh place at the moment when it comes to unemployment, but counting the lowest unemployment rate. Not long ago we were on the other side, where we had the highest unemployment rate, and today it is at 5.3%. We are among those countries where unemployment is significantly lower. This is also important in the context of the actions we are taking against the countries of the European Union. In these Eurostat surveys, an important factor is the employment rate and it is increasing compared to the previous year, it is almost 70%. In this respect, we still have a lot to do to increase the activity rate, and that works. That's also the direction we're headed. It can also be mentioned here that recently, under the programme, we spend money on activation of people from the Labour Fund. Other instruments that we use are also used to support employment for both young people and older people. To conclude in this first part, I can repeat once again that the situation on the labour market is good, in some places very good, but there are also areas where we still need to [[♪ The bell ♪]] increase the resources for activation, and in this direction our actions are moving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u263	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, Mr Jan Mosiński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u264	Minister, my question concerns the age group of young people. Well, the group that had the most severe impact of the recent crisis is young people. Between 2009 and 2013, more than 400 000 were left in the unemployment registers. people up to the age of 25, and every fifth registered unemployed was in this age group. It could be said that this is still good, because by 2000 almost one third of the unemployed was at that age, but our attention should be focused on helping young people move from education to full employment as smoothly as possible. In this context, early activation of young people is particularly important so that their first experience in the labour market does not turn into long-term unemployment. I therefore ask you to indicate to what extent the situation of young people has improved, whether it is still the group experiencing the greatest problems in the labour market, [[♪ The bell ♪]] mainly due to lack of professional experience, or maybe the number of young people registered in employment offices is steadily decreasing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u265	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Minister Stanisław Szwed, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u266	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In answer to this question, I also look at a gallery where we have a lot of young people who are certainly interested in the situation in the labour market of young people. It is worth noting, in the first part of this speech, that the situation with regard to youth unemployment is improving. In 2013, it was more than 27%, we were on average in the European Union. In 2016, we have 17%. This unemployment rate has decreased by 10% among young people. It is higher in the European Union. We here are equal to those countries with lower unemployment. What is also important here is, of course, the issue of those funds that we are allocating to support young people. I was talking about a program up to the age of 30, which means that an employer, employing a young man for a year, can benefit from support up to the minimum wage level, as well as an insurance contribution for both social and health insurance. It is the employer's duty to hire this young man for the next year. This is a good instrument, he's scheduled for three years. In this year's budget there are over a billion zlotys for this action, in next year's also. Information that influences us shows that this programme is of great interest. In this respect, too, training vouchers, i.e. the possibility of using the training fund, can be mentioned in this respect for young people. The form of internship voucher, employment voucher or settlement voucher is also very popular. What are the purposes in this regard? What's the resort gonna do? Together with the Ministry of Education - this is also due to the reform of education - we want to activate more, encourage vocational education, so that these funds that we spend under the Labour Fund can be directed to young people at the stage when they graduate so that they do not need to be disturbed again by the labour offices. In terms of strengthening industry schools, here we are working together with the Ministry on solutions that will help young people to make decisions at secondary school or in higher education, so that young people are also aware of the demand for the labour market. So far, the horror of young people has been that they have often learned that there are no jobs in the labour market. That is why this needs to be changed, and those actions that we are taking together with the Ministry of Education are going in this direction so that young people who are going to be educated are also aware of what jobs they can work for. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the future count. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u267	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Czesław Mroczyk and Stanisław Żmijan, the Civic Platform, on the construction of the A2 motorway in eastern Poland. The first question is asked by Mr Stanisław Żmijan.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u268	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Our questions will be about the infrastructure programme for high-speed roads and motorways, because we have half the budgetary perspective of the EU budget, the years 2014-2020, and a year and a half of the rule of law and justice. Minister, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction under the rule of law and justice beats records, but not the number of tenders announced for expressways and motorways, but the length of them. The tender for the Lublin node lasted over 660 days. The tender for the section of the A2 motorway of Lubelska - the ring road of Minsk Mazowiecki lasted more than 540 days, and these were only tenders. When will contracts be signed with contractors for these sections? Minister, the sooner the contractors enter the construction site, the sooner they will take these roads of the driver, but of course it is in the adoption of funds from the EU budget. Now questions about the next part of section A2, beyond Minsk towards the border with Belarus. When can a tender at least be expected for a programming concept? Don't worry about the financials for the realization. Prepare the documentation, they'll complete this section of your successor. And one more question. Because in his time the Minister gave the thesis that roads built east-west are not in the interest of Poland, I ask about the last episode [[♪ The bell ♪]] during the A1 motorway Tuszyn - Częstochowa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u269	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, Minister of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, answers the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u270	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen! Indeed, the tender for the construction of the A2 motorway on the section of the Lublin junction - the beginning of the ring road of Minsk Mazowiecki took place in June 2015, but unfortunately it was not a well-prepared tender and therefore the tendering procedure took so long. In April of this year offers were opened and we assume that within 2 months, i.e. in July contracts will be signed for both the first section, i.e. from Lubelska node to Konik node, that is the length of almost 5.8 km, because 5.6 km, and the second section, from Konik node to the beginning of the ring road of Minsk Mazowiecki, in turn there is almost 9.2 km. As I said, an agreement should be concluded in July 2017. The national road construction programme provides for the value of expenditure for PLN 830 million. It follows from the offers submitted that there will be savings on this, there are serious offers and there will be savings on this task. On the other hand, as far as further sections are concerned, east of Minsk Mazowiecki towards Belarus, they are currently not aimed at implementation because there is currently no funding provided. As you know, the national road construction plan provides for investments worth almost PLN 200 billion, and the programme guarantees both EU and Polish funds of only PLN 107 billion, so not all roads from this project will be implemented. At the moment we are finishing work on updating the programme of construction of national roads and I think there is a chance to carry out a further section, i.e. from the ring road of Minsk Mazowiecki, beyond Minsk Mazowiecki to the road S19, that is the crossroads in the vicinity of Międzyrzec Podlaskie. We assume there's a chance for this episode. At the same time, we also want to pull up a section of the S19 road from Lublin, so that the traffic will increase there. It must also be remembered that on the section of the A2 road between Minsk Mazowiecki and the Siedlce this movement is still quite large, it amounts to 10 and 12 thousand. vehicles per day, while behind the Siedlce it falls dramatically and currently only amounts to about 2 000. vehicles daily. We assume that if we could build this section to Międzyrzec at least to Siedlec, this movement will increase and there is a chance for this section to be realized as well. On the other hand, the section from Minsk Mazowiecki to Siedlec is almost 37 km. The estimated cost of expenditure here is estimated at more than PLN 1 or 1.7 billion. There is also a concept announced, in the near future a concept will be announced... tender procedure for the programme concept in this section and the Minister approved the investment programme for this task. So that if we find financing, we will also want to implement this section, while the second section, from Siedlec to the state border, is already over 96 km and this is over PLN 4.4 billion. If we were to make only this section to the S19 road, it would probably be a similar cost, about 1.5 billion PLN, which is about 3 billion total, and we would have this section to cross with the S19 road. There are opportunities for implementation, but I say, it still needs to be updated. We are completing work in this area to update the national road construction programme and determine which sections will be financed in this EU perspective. Of course, with regard to these sections, beyond Minsk Mazowiecki, the prospect of possible implementation is after 2021, the end of this perspective, 2021, 2023, or 2024. With regard to the A1 motorway, this is the Minister's declaration on the implementation of this motorway on this section, but for today the source of funding has not yet been identified. The talks are being held within the government, at the Ministry of Development, in order to find the source of funding for this section, because it is determined that the A1 motorway is fully mobile, while we are working to find the source of funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u271	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Czesław Mroczek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u272	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! From the planned network of motorways in Poland, covering 2 thousand. km, in previous years - or tenders were launched for execution - 1800 km. Only 200 km from this planned network remains to be completed. The ambition of the government should be to complete the network of motorways in Poland, all the more so because - as I say - so little has been done as part of this task. As regards the A2 motorway and in particular its course in the east, the previous government made the transition through Warsaw, Konotop's junction to Puławska was executed, while as regards the section from Puławska to the Lublin junction, the contract was signed. In 2012 the ring road of Minsk Mazowiecki was carried out, and 2 years ago, in June 2015, an invitation to tender was issued for the section from Lublin junction to the ring road of Minsk Mazowiecki. Most of the tenders you've been holding back and you've begun to settle them right now. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to ask what your contribution to the construction of the A2 motorway east of Warsaw will be, apart from the announcements, because, as we say, almost half of your term of office has passed. What will be left of your actions when it comes to the A2 motorway east of Warsaw?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u273	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the Minister to respond. I remind you, Minister Kazimierz Smolinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u274	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen! As I said, mainly referring to what the Member said remained about 200 km, most of which is just the section of the A2 motorway as far as the final section behind the Siedlce is concerned, I have great doubts whether, with such a low traffic volume: 2 000. vehicles per hour state You'd be doing this episode, too. We will carry this out gradually and want to implement at least until the intersection with the S19 road. Of course, we assume that the further we build, the more this movement will increase and this justification will also be stronger. There's talk going on. Minister of Infrastructure and Construction Mr Andrzej Adamczyk spoke to the Minister of Transport of Belarus and it is ensured that more traffic will be directed to the section from Belarus towards the transition of Kukuryki. And slowly it starts to grow, but yet this increased movement is not visible. If we build it like I said, we want to make it to the 19th century, then I think that the justification will be stronger and easier to convince the European Commission, because there are also some sections that are held back because there is too little movement, there is no justification. We must also have the agreement to finance sections and economic justification, so if this movement grows, the justification for the next section will be stronger and then there will also be a greater chance for implementation. However, there is determination, as I said on the nineteenth, there is certainly a stronger justification, because this movement is bigger, but for today I think it is understanding that it is difficult to build at 2,000. vehicles for an hour, sorry, a day. Many of your fellow Members come and talk about road load: 10, 15, 20 thousand. vehicles a day, and that's where we're not gonna do it, and in this case, we want to do it at 2,000. I think that would be considered an uneconomic approach. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u275	Thank you...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u276	Minister! The volume of traffic is much higher. These are outdated data. We're at least talking about preparatory work. Thank you for that answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u277	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u278	Preparatory work will be on the move. Excuse me, one more correction. No invitation to tender has been suspended or cancelled. They were implemented according to assumptions, just like the previous one, as I was talking about. It wasn't just our will. The tender has its terms and conditions, and it did not end until April this year. We couldn't settle it any other way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u279	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Dariusz Starzycki, Waldemar Andzel, Ewa Malik and Teresa Glenc, Law and Justice, about the junction of the Jaworzno deer. Mr Dariusz Starzycki is the first to ask a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u280	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Jaworzno is one of the largest Polish cities, through which the highway runs and which at the same time does not have full access to the motorway. The Deer node on the A4 motorway was closed after the toll was started. Due to the lack of exits on the Jaworzno highway, the investment in the local economy was lost worth tens of millions of PLN. All local authorities, Oświęcim presidents, Jaworna, Oświęcim and Chrzanowski starosts, Chełmek mayors, Libiąża, Chrzanów, Brzeszcz, Zator and Kęt mayors and several wojts signed their letters of intent regarding the opening of the node. For years we have been getting information that this node is to be closed and is to be built new, in Byczyn, only that for most neighbouring cities, as well as for Upper Silesian Agency of Entrepreneurship and Development having within the Deer node the most optimal investment areas is the node in Deer. In addition, according to the contract originally signed, the node in Byczyn was to be built and put into service at the beginning of the toll collection, which was several years ago. However, until today Stalexport does not even have ready documentation concerning this node, and I will remind you that the concession ends in 10 years, in 2027, and therefore few people believe that this node will arise at all. The argument put forward by the concessionaire that the present state is compatible with the concession is unacceptable because the concession contract has already been amended several times. To date, six annexes have already been signed and there are no indications that the relevant annex governing this issue will be signed in line with the expectations of several hundred thousand inhabitants of the cities and businesses mentioned above. This would probably be the first annex in line with the public interest and not the private concessionaire. Motorways are supposed to promote economic development. We therefore ask for urgent and decisive action to open the Jaworzno Deer Highway Node. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u281	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Minister Kazimierz Smolinski will answer this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u282	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The issue of the extension and opening of the Deer node has already been examined and consulted in detail by the General Directorate of National Roads since 2010. According to the concession agreement with the company, here the concessionaire is Stanessport Autostrada Małopolska SA managing this section of Katowice - Kraków, the node is designed to close, while the Byczyn node located east of it is designed for further expansion, whose implementation is currently being prepared. The decision on the total exclusion of the Deer node is the responsibility of the concessionaire, in accordance with the contract. For today, it has enabled partial communication with the motorway using this junction. The Ministry and the General Directorate generally do not see any justification for the additional reconstruction and full opening of the Deer node, because, according to the General Directorate, this is not only not in line with the concession agreement, but is also close to the distance. There are certain requirements, here it is assumed that the distance between knots is 15 km. However, it is known that the concessionaire will not agree, and without his consent it is impossible to rebuild the deer node without additional costs in the form of an extension of the toll collection point, because then, so to speak, the users could go off this highway without paying the fees, which is, of course, not profitable and incompatible with the contract for the concession holder, so the concession holder does not agree. The existing annexes, which were signed, have always involved the costs incurred by the government or local government. In any case, the assumption is that the local government will have to bear some costs associated with the extension of this node. In order to facilitate the talks, a meeting will be held on 22 May which will be organised by the Ministry to which the President of the City of Jaworzna, Stalexport Highway and the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways were invited. A preliminary estimate of the costs of possible expansion, opening, operation of this node is to be discussed there. A detailed discussion of the subject, including existing actions, current situation, possible estimates, expansion and opening is planned. Without a common agreement, the position cannot be conducted unilaterally without the agreement of the concessionaire. All previous activities were undertaken by the concessionaire in accordance with the agreement. The agreement does not allow the Ministry or the Directorate-General to intervene in such a way as to force them to expenditure which will not be compensated by user fees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u283	Thank you very much. The additional question is asked by Mrs Ewa Malik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u284	Thank you, Marshal. The provisions of the Polish State's agreement with Stalexport concerning the functioning of the motorway from the beginning are highly controversial in society. As we know, it is almost a monopolist road connection between Katowice and Krakow, which has been making considerable profits from the motorway for years, which is also primarily responsible for blocking the development of the local economy within Jaworzna and surrounding municipalities. I ask you, Minister, to make a concrete breakthrough in the talks with Stalexport, so that for once in this difficult cooperation with this company we have in mind a very important public interest and that we also have the so-called effect. It's a good change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u285	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Minister Kazimierz Smolinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u286	Mrs. Marshal! Mrs. Member! As I said, the Ministry declares its full support to the local authorities to be able to establish with the concessionaire the possibility of a change with Stalexport, but we did not sign this agreement. It's as contained as it is. It is valid until 2027 and there are no indications, at least we haven't found one that would allow this agreement to be questioned in some way. Even if we consider it to be unfavourable, whether the local government considers it to be unfavourable, this is the result of the conclusion of the agreement. Maybe somebody made a mistake once. We will support the local government as much as possible so that this agreement can be renegotiated and found a solution, and without bilateral or tripartite agreements, this will not work. Like I said, there's a meeting on May 22nd. The Ministry will support the local government in order to find an agreement so that Jaworzno does not actually be cut off from access to the motorway and that, so to speak, restrictions, there has been no restriction on the development of the city in the form of those nearby areas.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u287	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Members Wojciech Skurkiewicz and Krzysztof Maciejewski, the Law and Justice Club, on the state of natural habitats of the Białowieża Forest. The question is addressed to the Minister of Environment. The question is asked by Wojciech Skurkiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u288	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Białowieża Forest is a great treasure, our national treasure, but this Białowieża Forest, a great forest, the ancient Białowieża Forest is so beautiful and so shown mainly because of the fact that from the ancients there was a man. The man used, co-used the Bialowieza Forest, and there were foresters there who have also led a sustainable forest management for many, many years, which is why this forest is so amazing and so beautiful and we can boast of it all over the world. Minister, that is why my question to the Minister of Environment is not an accident. I would like to ask what is the state of the natural habitat of the Białowieża Forest. What has the Ministry of Environment done with those who have been sharing this forest for years? What has the Ministry of Environment done with the appeals of the local community, which has repeatedly stressed and said that it is necessary to save them - once again - their cultural and natural heritage? Minister, what is the resort of the environment doing in this area to preserve this beautiful forest for the next generations?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u289	Thank you very much. The questions are answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Minister Andrzej Nebula. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u290	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you so much for that question. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important issue that concerns our greatest national treasure in terms of nature. This is an object that has been extremely protected for several hundred years: by kings, by princes, by authorities. The Tsarian authorities also protected this object as an object that was intended to serve hunting purposes. At a later time, however, this object was heavily used by, you can say, the invaders during World War I, during the interwar period, during the period of World War II. Here, ladies and gentlemen, is a distinctive image of the Bialowieza Forest, how the forest may look, what it should look like. Such a characteristic habitat is a very fertile forest, a thicket. At the moment this is a picture with which both the world of science and visitors of the Białowieża Forest associate Białowieża Forest. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Andrzej Necessary illustrates his speech with slides]] At one point, there was a kind of error that was associated with the management of this natural object. There has been a situation where active nature conservation has been stopped to the extent that it requires it to do so. So now we have this image that we had a very good forest, in very good condition. At the moment we have on many fragments of the painting, I would say, the forest destroyed, where habitats perish, as you can see in slides. The habitats are dying and the species that are associated with these habitats are dying. In habitats that have a high level of groundwater, due to the fact that the assimilation apparatus was damaged, the trees have died, there is flooding, the swamping of these habitats, as here on the slide, also here. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important that society has knowledge of this. We are talking about species such as woodpeckers, especially woodpeckers, woodpeckers, three-toed woodpeckers, which should have their habitats. How can they have their habitats in such a forest if these trees within a period of 2 to a maximum of 10 years - and it turns out that this process is very strong - fall over, break? Where, under what conditions can a nesting habitat be created, forgeries and for habitation of these species? This is a frightening situation. On the other hand, on habitats that have an appropriately lower groundwater level, at the time of loss of assimilation, loss of soil shade occurs such that grass enters. Especially characteristic grass - here you can see - is a reed, grass growing very high, to the height of an adult man, grass, which causes that nothing is able to renew itself in this place. No seed, even in the best way brought, e.g. The acorns brought by the jars are not able to germinate and spend a new generation to rebuild this habitat - to rebuild the habitat of protected species, and to ensure that the conservation status of this habitat is such that it will also be possible to protect the species that are associated with this habitat. But that's not all. Here we have an example that apart from the loss of habitats, species to which we are obliged to protect by directives are dying, we also have a situation where gene resources are lost. Here on the slide we have a wonderful tree. It is a natural monument, which also as a result of the work of the barker was killed. In addition to the fact that it is a natural monument, it is also - it was also - a mother tree from which gene resources, seeds, as well as sculptures were obtained, and the material from this tree was admired by Scandinavia, this material was also sold abroad. What is the situation, Mr, right now, I am showing it. This map, where in red color we have marked areas of dead trees, this is the state for that year, at the end of summer. The violet colour is the fragments of the forest where the tree is broken down, while the fragments that are covered with shrapnel are the areas where the grass cover, the reed, is present, and in these areas we are facing a fire hazard and a safety risk. Thus, it requires active action, which results from the plan of protective tasks, and the plan of protective tasks is an act of local law which is used to protect habitats and species present there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u291	Thank you very much. The second question is asked by Mr Skurkiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u292	Minister! You mentioned this, and this slide, which is still visible, shows the problem of the Białowieża Forest and the problem of so-called. A dead forest. Can the Minister describe, on a percentage scale, the extent to which this problem is affected by the so-called problem. the dead forest, is it because of the printer's bark, or other issues about this ancient Bialowieza Forest? That's one thing. Second line. What steps are being taken by the Ministry of Environment to protect valuable natural habitats and species in the Białowieża Forest? What steps are being taken? I mean steps at the moment ad hoc, but also a long-term policy that affects the area of the Białowieża Forest in the perspective of 5, 10 years. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u293	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u294	Thank you very much. High Seym! Mr. Speaker! This is a very important issue, because if we examine the documents that have been prepared, namely the plan of protective tasks that was adopted in 2015, and was prepared for about 5 years, if we read it, then there is such a statement that the state of knowledge of species such as the open sasanka is weak, the patellar patellar - weak, the owl, the species that is currently being discussed - insufficient, the hairy, the second valuable species, the state of diagnosis is insufficient, the three-toed woodpecker, which we are all empathized with, the state of diagnosis is insufficient. On the other hand, for all other species that are listed, it is envisaged that a field survey of the population should be carried out and carried out. It wasn't done. Therefore, in doing so, we have prepared a scientific study on the need for active conservation of species and habitats in the Białowieża Forest in order to have scientific knowledge, also cross-cutting knowledge. Currently, the second year we are conducting a natural inventory of the Białowieża Forest. It is an inventory that is carried out throughout the wilderness. In the area of three foresights, in the reserve area and in the Białowieża National Park, 1400 permanent inventory areas were established. The material collected there after development will allow us to carry out activities that are required by habitats and species that are protected. Like you said, you can't deny this situation, you can't say that the forest wasn't used by a man. It was, in various ways - in a hunting way, also the local population used this forest through the so-called. income rights. These rights concerned the fact that the local population had used this forest for centuries by acquiring wood, by mowing hay, by grazing cattle, by catching fish in the rivers of the forest; all this was done. At the moment, it can be said that in a situation where we have, we can say that we are dealing with a certain withdrawal of active protection activities, spontaneous natural processes lead, we can say: at the moment, to the loss of biodiversity, which is so valuable in the Białowieża Forest, the one that we both care about, [[♪ The bell ♪]] as well as Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u295	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the ninth question. The question is asked by Members Jarosław Gonciusz and Witold Czarnecki, Law and Justice, on the revision of the provisions on personal data protection addressed to the Minister for Digitalisation. The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u296	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! From the information I have, it appears that the average duration of proceedings concerning personal data breaches is 295 days in Poland, until the general inspection of the protection of personal data in the first instance, and the decision in the second instance - 437 days. It is not better to wait for a valid decision on the protection of personal data - here the person concerned will wait an average of 600 days. This is a rather worrying situation for those affected by various data leakages or disclosures without their consent and should be improved. We can see that there have been many negligence in this area for many years. In view of the above, I would like to ask: When implementing the EU Data Protection Regulation into the Polish legal order, does the Ministry of Digitalization provide for the introduction of legal solutions that will ensure more effective protection of citizens' personal data?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u297	The question is answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Digital Affairs, Minister Marek Zagórski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u298	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! We are aware of the difficulties associated with the functioning of the current national data protection system in Poland. The statistics you have indicated show the scale of this problem. Confirming the data you provided. According to the statistics held by the Ministry of Digitalization, based on the judgments given by the administrative courts on personal data protection, the average waiting time for the decision of the General Data Protection Officer at first instance is 295 days today and 142 days for the decision at second instance. This is the average, but there have also been such proceedings, which have been completed e.g. in 2015, in which the citizen had waited more than 1600 days, i.e. almost 5 years, until the final judgment was reached in the case. It is worth noting that in such proceedings in accordance with the Code of Administrative Procedure, the principle should be to deal with the matter immediately. The result, among others. This is a state of affairs in which citizens are convinced that the best protection of personal data is not the best. This is due to research, but also to various information obtained in different contexts. For example - one of the broadcasts in Program 3 of Polish Radio, a probe conducted among listeners. Over $1,000. the persons were asked whether they considered their personal data to be well protected. The negative answer was 90%. The General Data Protection Officer of one of the reasons for such a state of affairs is looking at the excessive time limits imposed by the Code of Administrative Procedure. This is how we read the proposal submitted in the framework of the work on the new Personal Data Protection Act by the General Data Protection Officer for the regulation of the new rules for dealing with the body. GIODO proposed a solution in the light of which the case before him should be terminated no later than within 6 months and a particularly complex case no later than 12 months from the date of the initiation of the procedure. This would mean that the deadline for these data, which you have said, would be reduced by around 2 months. The Minister of Digitization will not take into account the proposals provided by the General Data Protection Officer because he disagrees with his diagnosis. In the ongoing work on the provisions of the new Personal Data Protection Act implementing the general EU regulation, we aim to improve and speed up the conduct carried out in these matters. Violation of the rules on the protection of personal data is a violation of the fundamental right of citizens and decisions should be issued in such cases without delay. Our intention is therefore to maintain the deadlines resulting from the c.p.a. as a basic principle, i.e. the basic principle will be to issue a decision immediately, within a deadline of 30 days, and in complicated cases - 60. In addition, in order to speed up the procedure, we will propose the abolition of the two-instance proceedings on breaches of personal data protection rules. This abolition of duality is intended to ensure that citizens can quickly obtain judicial protection of their rights. However, the authority will be granted the right to self-control of the decision issued. In order to speed up proceedings, we also provide for the introduction of a rule that the investigation of data breaches will not last for more than 1 month and will include deadlines resulting from the c.p.a. In this way, the control procedure will cease to be such a checkpoint, which often applies, that it lasts infinitely long, and thus theoretically the deadlines are preserved. Finally, I would like to add that the general regulation forces the Member States to create a new national system for the protection of personal data, headed by a new supervisory authority. We want it to be the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection. Our aim is to create a body that is not only an entity that effectively enforces any breach of data protection rules, but also an open and advisory body, not only for citizens but also for entrepreneurs, how to act to protect our privacy more effectively. We hope that, as a result of these changes, the procedure will actually last much shorter, not as it is now. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u299	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask for an additional question, including Mr Jarosław Gonciusz. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u300	My second question concerns the leaking of data from a large group of people, while at the same time threatening privacy. Will these persons also be informed of the suspicion of a leak in this data? I mean, people who don't volunteer themselves are very often unaware that they are in danger of losing their privacy.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u301	The Minister, of course, is asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u302	Mr. Marshal! Mr President, today it seems that such information is addressed to the General Data Protection Officer, but only in the area of telecommunications law, there is no such obligation in general. Under the regime of the new Personal Data Protection Regulation, in accordance with Article. 34 of this Regulation, such an obligation will apply to the whole area covered by this Regulation, i.e. all actors, except that it will actually continue to be an obligation to inform the General Data Protection Officer, because sometimes it is very difficult to imagine the possibility of informing all persons, with a mass leakage, of the costs of this would be disproportionate. It is more about making citizens feel that when such an infringement occurs, there is an appropriate response. GDPR regulations increase clearly... They create a framework to make this sense of security more secure. This change, as I said, concerns the fact that instead of one section of the economy or companies it will apply to the whole sphere, but it will still be information addressed to the authority. In the case of Poland it is at the moment GIODO, after amending the law, as I said, we assume that it will be the Office for Personal Data Protection. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u303	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Sylwester Chruszcz, Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz and Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz club15, will ask a question about the involvement of the Polish Armed Forces in the structure of the Eurocorpus in Strasbourg and Szczecin and their participation in the construction of the European Army. The question is addressed to the Minister of National Defence. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defense will answer...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u304	Exactly, Mr. Marshal, why don't we wait and see if we can reschedule this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u305	No, he's somewhere, sir. I think...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u306	I can wait.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u307	One minute technical break. We're waiting for the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u308	We can reschedule. Maybe the next point, next question, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u309	But there's no answer either. So I'm gonna ask for a minute's break. We're gonna try and find Minister Dworczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u310	Good. It's gonna be a military assignment. [[Wait a minute.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u311	Thank you so much for your patience. The Minister has found himself, so... [[Applause]] We will let the Minister take his place calmly. I ask Mr Sylwester Khrushch to ask a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u312	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As you can see, the Polish army will always be in good time. I have a question, Minister. Of course, building the eastern NATO flank is a very good direction, such as expanding NATO bases, bringing more brigades of soldiers here, to our lands, expanding in Elbląg, in Bydgoszcz our battalions, which are connected with the Alliance. This is a very good direction. But at the same time, I am a member of the European Union Commission and in the European Commission, believe me, at every stage all Commissioners have said that there is a need to build an army of the European Union, a European army to defend European identity, European security, a European army to defend us against the threats that are born in the East. Doesn't that contradict our commitment to the NATO structure, our very needy alliance with America, with the United States Army? As a result, we have also recently heard reports of a change in our type of Eurocorp membership in Strasbourg from framework to observer. Isn't that the direction that confirms it... Do we not want to build the European Union, or do we, as a government, as a European army, still support the building of a European army, which, however, weakens NATO? Have we completely stopped moving towards building an army of the European Union, and consistently, we are firmly building the eastern flank and building our military alliance on an alliance with the US Army and supporting only NATO? Here is the question: Are the European Union's army, are we still involved in this project, Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u313	I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u314	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I'm so sorry I'm a dozen seconds late. Technically, that's what caused it. In replying to your question about your involvement in the Eurocorp structure, I would like to discuss this a little more broadly. Since the NATO Summit in Warsaw confirmed the importance of the Alliance for the security of Poland and Europe as a whole, the achievement of the objectives set at the Warsaw Summit is the basis for strengthening security in the European, transatlantic dimension. From this perspective, we are assessing the development of defence cooperation within the European Union. Our efforts are primarily aimed at preventing the creation of different speeds for the European Union, but also at different areas with different levels of security. Because such a scenario would be very, very dangerous for Poland. And it must be made clear: Poland is in favour of strengthening the role of the European Union as an important actor in international security policy, but it does not support the actions that aim at this end by weakening the effective allies' tools, and the most effective one is NATO. Some of the proposals currently emerging to strengthen the tools for implementing the European Union's security policy do not provide certainty as to whether the development of the European Union's security policy will benefit us. Discussion on this subject is highly politicised and often lacks substantive content in these discussions. That is why we are taking this debate with caution. And in this context we locate our actions aimed at reducing Poland's involvement in Eurocorp. I stress: not resignation, but limitations. Our decision is based on the need to focus organizational and staff effort on issues of fundamental importance for Poland, especially in matters related to strengthening the Eastern NATO flank. This is a fundamental task for us. I repeat: Despite false reports, we do not withdraw from Eurocorp, we are merely resigning from applying for the status of the Framework State and reducing the level of commitment. However, our country will remain an associated country of Eurocorp with a target presence of Eurocorp officers. It is also worth mentioning here what the framework state means. The Framework State assumes full financial and organisational responsibility for the activities of Eurocorp. Importantly, work on limiting the scope of Polish involvement in Eurocorp - and that is also worth emphasising, and I say this to the parliamentarians of the Civic Platform, because they also asked similar questions - was taken in the Ministry of National Defence even before the change of government, at the turn of 2014 and 2015. This issue was the subject of an exchange and agreement between the MON Defence Policy and the General Staff. An important condition for our decision was the assessment of the internal discussion on changes in the structure and tasks of the Eurocorp, which has been carried out for a long time by the Framework States. These changes will further undermine the importance of Eurocorp within NATO. The lower level of ambition of Eurocorp and the planned focus on EU operations means reducing its capacity to engage in NATO collective defence operations, and this is about the security of our country, but this is an imperative in all our actions. For these reasons, Eurocorpus has lost importance to us in the training dimension, less opportunities for developing our staff seconded to this command are available. It is also worth noting that Eurocorpus is today only one of the nine corps commanders within NATO and that in none of them except Szczecin Poland does not have a contribution comparable to that of Eurocorpus today. And that's an incomprehensible imbalance. Hence our actions. At the same time, the Ministry shall endeavour to reduce engagement in cooperation with the Framework States. At their request, we will schedule the reduction process over time, at least by 2020. At the same time, we strengthen the allied structures in our territory. One of the key tasks is to complete the process of strengthening Szczecin Corps Command. These are currently the priorities of the Ministry for the involvement of the Armed Forces in the multi-national chain of command. In June we plan to carry out certification of this command, which will confirm its full usefulness to act as NATO high readiness command. This will be the culmination of a few years of preparation and sometimes difficult negotiations. The Szczecin Corps Command as part of NATO's structure will be in constant readiness to assume the unique role of NATO's response forces in our region, and will be able to participate in the large defence operation of the Alliance. It is a unique ability, the importance of which has been confirmed at the summits of the Alliance in Wales and Warsaw. We believe that this process will go smoothly. In short, we are not giving up, we are reducing our commitment, because the priority is the security of our region and the priority is the commitment within NATO structures. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u315	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, an additional question, Mr Sylwester Khrushch.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u316	Minister, thank you for your answer. I will ask about Eurocorp Szczecin, or the Multinational Northwest Corps, for many years in Szczecin called Eurocorp, maybe mistakenly, maybe not. But I would like to remind you that when we debated 30 November 2016 on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and NATO Command, Eurocorpus Szczecin was separated from this agreement, because, as is stated, it is created on the basis of a separate agreement between Denmark, Germany and Poland. Whether he is in NATO and we support him - in part, the Minister replied - whether he is in mind or not. also an element, a component of the future army of the European Union, Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u317	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u318	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The answer is quite simple and short, because the Szczecin corps is not a Eurocorp. It is a fully NATO-based structure and has nothing to do with the project you are talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u319	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Adam Szłapka, Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Mr Adam Cyrański, Mr Radosław Lubczyk and Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the modern club, the question about the participation of Mr Wacław Berczyński in the tender for the selection of helicopters for the Polish Army. This question is also addressed to the Minister of National Defence and will be answered by Minister Michał Dworczyk. Please, Mr Radosław Lubczyk is the first question to be asked. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u320	Mr. Marshal! Minister! It would seem that your relationship with Bartłomiej Misiewicz would be the biggest disgrace of Minister Macierewicz's office. But as usual, you managed to surprise us all. Caracale is an affair with 13 billion in the background, with billions for which the Polish army was to be equipped with the best equipment. Poland was to receive several dozen modern helicopters in a few years. However, President Kaczyński let you into the Ministry of National Defence with a group of disinformation experts. Dr. Wacław Berczyński was among them. Wacław Berczyński is the essence of Law and Justice. For 13 years he was active in the PZPR, of course as prosecutor Peterowicz destroyed it from the inside, destroyed it so effectively that the party allowed him to travel freely around the world, destroyed communism in Poland so effectively that he became a member of the party execution. This shows the hypocrisy of Law and Justice. But not today. Perhaps if not for the expanded ego of Wenceslas Berczyński, Poles would never know about this affair. This is because of your incompetence or conscious action. If you didn't know what Wacław Berczyński was doing in your ministry, you should behave honorably and resign. However, if you knew everything, you'll be facing the Court of State. The public opinion has the right to request clarification and I would therefore like to ask the following questions. Since when do you know the Minister and cooperate with Wacław Berczyński? Is it true that Wacław Berczyński accompanied you in February 2016 during your visit to France, where you negotiated the purchase of helicopters? Is it true that Mr Berczyński, Misiewicz and Nowyczyk had access to the tender documentation? Did you know that the experts mentioned were mass copying and extracting tender documents from the Ministry? Can you explain why you gave Berczyński permission to access classified tender information? Have you been warned of the legal consequences of such copying? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Did Mr. Berczyński influence the purchase and purchase of the Boeings for VIPs? Do you have any knowledge of your whereabouts or whereabouts after your escape from Poland? And the last two short questions. Is the theory of the explosion of a thermobaric bomb onboard the TU-154 still considered true by you, and will you behave honorably in connection with the Berczyński scandal and resign?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u321	Thank you, sir. And I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u322	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that Mr Macierewicz read the text prepared earlier, so I certainly did not read it as well as the constitutional minister, but I will try to answer the questions you have read and, by the way, to denounce the lies that are contained in them, because these are false thesis. I will start with the basic fact, namely that the Polish Army today does not have multi-tasking helicopters, on which the Civic Platform government conducted almost 7 years of proceedings, because the French party did not complete... was unable to fulfil its obligations in the context of offset negotiations and with the best intentions the Polish government could not, breaking the law, sign agreements which would result in the delivery of these helicopters to the Polish Army. I don't want to come here to assess whether it would be good helicopters or bad helicopters, but the facts are: offset negotiations have been concluded by the Ministry of Development because the French party didn't want to meet the offset commitments. And it is always worth to remember the economic interests of Poland, the interests of the Polish state, the national security, not to act, speak and behave in such a way that someone may feel that you are presenting a position such as the French lobbyists or the French lobbyists. That's the first statement. [[Voice from the lobby: Lobbyists...]] Please? Let us move on to the questions that the Member has asked in his speech. Mr. Berczyński was an employee of the Ministry of National Defence, an employee such as thousands of other employees. He's a recognized aviation expert, a doctor who's worked in international companies for many years. He worked, as you perfectly remember, primarily as the chairman of the Smolensk Sub-Committee investigating the 2010 air crash, but thanks to the competences he had, thanks to his knowledge of the aircraft construction, he could be used by the Minister of Defence to verify the archive documents of the archival procedure on the selection of a multi-purpose helicopter for the Polish Army. Why am I talking about archival... archival documents? Because this procedure on the selection of multitasking helicopters ended in 2015, in September 2015, even a few months before Law and Justice won the elections and created the government in which Antoni Macierewicz became Minister. These documents were de facto useless in the sense that they were left in the Ministry of National Defence and offset negotiations were launched by the Ministry of Development. These are specialists from the Ministry of Development, the employees of the Ministry of Development conducted offset negotiations and they also made the decision at a certain stage, such that since the French company does not want to meet its offset obligations, it will not be possible to conclude such an agreement. Dr. Berczyński was supposed to check the technical documentation, over 10,000. pages of technical documentation, for a very important reason. Well, it turns out that when the Civic Platform government conducted the bidding procedure, very strange things happened. The parameters of helicopters that were to be obtained changed in such a way that ultimately it turned out that only caracales met these requirements. This led to suspicion that there might have been an irregularity during this procedure. And now the Minister of National Defence, as a responsible official, cannot, based on rumors, I do not know, submit notices to the prosecutor's office, to the CBA - he must verify whether it was true in this information, whether it was merely a statement. That's why Dr. Berczyński was checking what was in that technical archive file. And I have to say with regret, because this is a problem for the Ministry of National Defence, not just for one or the other politician, that these doubts were big enough and the irregularities were big enough that today the prosecution in Szczecin is investigating this case, while the investigation procedure is - the Central Anti-corruption Office. I do not prejudice the outcome of this, for this is the court, the prosecutor's office, the CBA, but the facts are that these doubts were so much about the times of the Civic Platform's rule that the prosecution is conducting an investigation and proceedings conducted by the CBA. Dr. Berczyński, having access to these documents, had all the necessary legal documents enabling him to read the classified information. I'm pointing out, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Dr. Berczyński had no contact with offset documentation at any stage, with offset negotiations. Please do not duplicate lies, do not mislead Poles. Thank you very much. [[Why did he run away?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u323	Thank you, Minister. Sir, please don't shout... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Michał Dworczyk: This is bullshit.]] ... because Mr Zbigniew Gryglas has the floor at the moment. I'm asking you for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u324	Thank you, Marshal. High Seym! Minister! Minister, since you claim that Mr Wacław Berczyński only had access to the archive records, my question is: Has the clause of this documentation been removed, I am thinking of the information protection clause or not? If so, it would look different. And the words of Mr Wacław Berczyński himself, who, let me remind you, said that he had finished the caracale, contradicted the explanation that you had just presented. My next question is this. Well, Mr Wacław Berczyński is a public official, so far a very important person, the chairman of the subcommittee, the chairman of the board of directors of military aviation companies, a man who, once again, he claims, has finished the caracale. The question is why he left Poland all of a sudden. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I will remind you that several years ago there was such a case that a person with doubts was so spectacularly detained on the Baltic Sea. Will Mr Berczyński return to the country? When will it be available to services that could explain its role in this very important for the Polish army and for the Polish tender? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u325	Thank you, sir. Thank you. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u326	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Speaker! Maybe I should start with the end or the last question you have asked. I don't know when Mr. Berczyński will come to Poland. I don't run Mr. Berczyński's calendar. Nor is it true that today Mr.Berczyński is the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of WZL-1 - he did, but that is precisely the case. Since his personal interests had kept him in the United States, he resigned from his duties - as he is not the chairman of the Smolensk subcommittee. He's a member of this subcommittee. The research nature of these works is that certain activities can be carried out remotely from a distance. On the other hand, as I said, the claim that he fled the country is simply, ladies and gentlemen, a lie. [[Joy in the Chamber]] A little decency. [[Is he ready to turn himself in?]] But she will admit to the fact that there is a difference between the trip and the trip. [[When will it be?]] As a result, I assure you... [[You don't run a calendar, I get it.]] ...that as soon as Mr Berczyński arrives in Warsaw, I will personally inform the Member on this matter. On the other hand, I will answer the question to the Member: Why did he work in the Supervisory Board? Because he's an outstanding scientist, an outstanding expert, [[Joy in the Chamber]] an engineer, has a PhD in this field and as such was appointed by the owner, i.e. by the Polish Armed Group, to this council and worked as chairman for a certain period. [[It's free.]] It's quite simple, and I don't really know if there's much more to be said about it. If you have additional, detailed questions, I serve in the clowns. I'm at your disposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u327	Thank you very much, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information on the new draft regulation of the Ministry of National Education concerning the waiver of the possibility of individual teaching in kindergartens and schools, which was requested by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will be discussed at the present meeting of the Sejm. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants, Ms Ursula Augustyn. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u328	Thank you, Marshal. Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, And of course, Minister! I don't need to show this document because you know it well, and we all know it in this room. This is the United Nations Convention of 13 December 2006, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, of course ratified by Poland. It's a convention, which art. 24, on education, begins with the following words: "State Parties recognise the right of persons with disabilities to education. In order to implement this right without discrimination and on a level playing field, States Parties shall ensure that the education system is inclusive at all levels of education and lifelong learning, etc., this article is a little longer. This article shows us that inclusive education and creating equal opportunities for all children is no luxury. It is the responsibility of the States Parties, the States which have ratified this Convention. Besides this Convention, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Constitution also provide such rights for Polish citizens. Inclusive education is something you can't actually overestimate. This is something that benefits not only students with disabilities or with difficulties, but also those students who can learn tolerance, respect for others, to be able to cooperate with these people, to live with them. It is also something that is invaluable to parents, because thanks to this education that includes parents can benefit from it to pursue their career when their child can attend school and at school to benefit from such education. We have been looking at the source - so also the Minister - for answers to very different questions, because the Minister believes that we, for example. we do not understand the difference between individual teaching and individual educational and therapeutic programmes. But I'm gonna figure it out right now, and we're gonna figure it out. On the other hand, the Minister in various answers was kind to say that you are preparing schools for inclusive education. So you don't need to prepare schools for inclusive education, because by the two previous terms we did it really with great success and today you just need this education that includes helping. You have to help your teachers and your parents to make her grow. But surely it must not be spoiled, it must not be destroyed, e.g. by a regulation which appeared on 14 April. This is a regulation of the Minister of Education on individual compulsory annual preparation of pre-school children and individual teaching of children and young people. This regulation says, among other things. about this - there is such a record - that individual teaching can only be carried out in a child's home, without the possibility, like this. Today, it takes place in kindergarten or school. And the shock, and the protests of the parents, and the question is, what happened to you that you decided to educate these children only at home? Close, discriminate, shut down. Why? Why? What happened that you made such decisions? The Ombudsman was also concerned about this state of affairs. The Ombudsman also wrote a letter to you and in this letter expresses his concern, his disapproval for this state of affairs. I had the pleasure of asking in person, in public, at one of the TV stations the Minister for this problem. The Minister was just explaining it to me, in very beautiful words, and really someone who just listened to this program thought to himself: God, what a fantastic minister and how wise he is to education. The problem is that the Minister forgot to say that, however, in your regulation - in the draft for the time being, so I hope you will withdraw from it - it is written that individual teaching for children will only take place at home. I'll take a letter from one of the mothers. This is mom. a child with autism. Besides, these children aren't the only ones involved. I quote: The ability to work individually with a teacher during classes that require special focus, a lot of work is extremely important. Individual teaching is often done in the school area, because children with a decision on individual teaching after individual classes participate in a teaching which includes in classes that do not require so much effort from them: art, PE, etc. With this approach, the student also had the opportunity to communicate regularly with his peers and socialize in addition to providing the right conditions for learning. You're taking it away from them. We want to ask you this: Why? The Minister tried to explain it to me. Here I quote exactly from the TV broadcast of your statement: Is it better for a child, because it is difficult, to be excluded from the classroom and somewhere locked in another class with a teacher because everything is so much easier? No, the minister here is talking about some kind of derogation from individual teaching. This is a complete misunderstanding. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Minister also says that the regulation arranges that certain things should not be abused. So in order not to be involved in car accidents, maybe it's better not to use the car at all? Minister, our question is, why did you decide to turn it off instead of turning on the children who are already extremely injured by fate? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u329	Thank you. And I ask you to answer the Minister. You're welcome. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Minister Marzena Machalek, will answer. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u330	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I regret to say that unfortunately today and in recent days, in recent weeks there has been misinformation, there has been scaring parents, there is a festival of semi-truths in terms of individual teaching, in terms of our approach or the approach of the Ministry of National Education to children, to students with special educational needs. It's not good when we manipulate parents' feelings of genuine concern. It is not good how we use disability for political purposes. It's sad. But I wonder how much we are dealing with at this point in some cases with ignorance, misunderstanding, and just bad will. We're gonna try to explain today. Maybe this discussion will really be good today, and that's what I'm hoping we'll be explaining. I'm sure there's still time to stop scaring your parents because your parents need support, I agree, and your students are involved. We should all be giving our parents reliable information. I would like to make it clear that we here, responsible for education as the Ministry of National Education, have common objectives when it comes to parents of disabled pupils. We want to turn the kids on, not isolate them. We do not want to mix individual approaches to a disabled student with individual teaching. We believe and believe that individual teaching should be organised for students whose state of health makes it impossible or significantly difficult to attend school for an indefinite period of time. On the other hand, when it comes to students with disabilities, disability is not a disease but a condition, and we want children with disabilities to be at school with special educational needs, as much as possible in school, among their peers, to have organized teaching, which is teaching in the classroom and, if necessary, as part of an individual educational and therapeutic programme. And here these terms, which sound alike, are manipulated. Something else is individual teaching, which should be directed to the child of a sick person unable to attend school, and something else is the individual course of learning which includes the individualization of the teaching, which includes as much inclusion as possible. Turn it on. What is this inclusion when the child is outside the peer group? Children should be in the same age group, should be included. We're talking about turning it on, not isolation. This is so, these are numbers, and they also show that in 2016, more than 22 thousand. students were individual teaching, and half of them are pupils who are included in special education, i.e. Half of them are disabled students. We believe that disability is not a disease, that a child should be among other children. It's something we have in mind, which is our goal. I'm asking you to understand these two different things. On the other hand, there are other regulations ahead of us, because not only is this regulation organizing and organizing an approach to education, to education of pupils and children with disabilities. There are other regulations. It is a regulation on psychological and pedagogical assistance and a regulation on the organisation of special education. I also want to make it very clear that what we are preparing, although we are open to discussion, we are open to factual arguments, we are open to the concern and concern of our parents, we will translate, but please: do not scare your parents, because this is not right. Let us accept the best solutions for all children and do not pretend that isolation from the group, from class is inclusion. We believe, as I said, that the only reason to include a student in individual teaching should be because of a disease that makes it impossible to go to school. On the other hand, we are proposing solutions that allow children with disabilities to be included in the peer group and not isolated. I want to emphasize this very strongly and I want it to sound very strongly. Those who don't want to understand it, of course they won't take it, but I'm talking to my parents. Really, the solutions we're preparing are good for children, they're better than what's right now. I think that what happened in 2008 with regard to these regulations, later amended, unfortunately led to a conceptual mess, and today, through this mess, you can manipulate quite easily. Please, come to your senses. It's about the baby's welfare. We propose comprehensive legal solutions for students to have maximum support at school. The student is to be in the school community as long as his health permits. He should be studying with his peers. This is the obvious challenge of the 21st century and I ask you to accept it. You're open, modern, inclusive. That's what we're going to do. We also want... It is very clear that this individual educational and therapeutic program, which will be addressed to a student with special educational needs, will include both classes that will take place in the classroom with other students as well as individual classes. If it is necessary for the student to have additional classes in mathematics or Polish in individual mode, he will have them, but this is not individual teaching. This is an individual educational and therapeutic program, and I'm asking you to accept it and talk about it that way. The way a parent will choose a child's education will be his decision if the child is diagnosed with specific special educational and therapeutic needs. We will introduce this into these three regulations, which will be complementary to each other. Not one - note - only three regulations. They will complement each other, complement each other and create a system of education for pupils with disabilities, pupils who require education, individual education, individual education at home, and we will adopt such a solution - this is the third one, and I think that this is what parents are concerned about - which will be addressed to students who may to some extent... And it's hard to predict how much they're gonna have to receive this education at home because they're sick, and how much they're gonna get better and they're gonna be able to receive education at school. We will complement this and we will adopt it in the next regulations. As I say, right now we are at the stage of public consultation and for all the votes... I consider this debate, and I want to see it as a debate on this subject and I want to see it as a debate that we are having in good faith. There is also a consultation on the regulation on psychological and pedagogical assistance. In this regulation, we also propose changes to enable schools to implement support aimed at involving disabled pupils and ensuring their full participation in school life, and I stress: full participation in school life. We also make changes, we want to rebureaucratize procedures for helping a child with special therapeutic needs. We want it to be a functional diagnosis, a social diagnosis. If it is insufficient, the director will be able to apply to the public clinic for additional diagnosis and additional support, but we want what is happening around the child to support the child to the parent to take place in a school under natural educational and teaching conditions. If necessary - once again I stress - there will be individual classes, if necessary, individual teaching. Once again, I would stress that in the common sense, individual teaching is unfortunately - that is what it sounds like - individualisation of teaching and cannot be replaced by individualisation of teaching and appropriate forms for the child, forms of support for individual teaching. This cannot be replaced, but it can be supplemented in some justified cases. Children who need support in learning will certainly be provided with additional activities. Of course, I am not yet able to say everything now, but the new Education Law requires local governments to allocate funds for tasks related to a special organisation of science and working methods of no less than the funds received for this purpose. There's extra money and every child with disabilities [[♪ The bell ♪]] combined with autism may be covered by an individual therapeutic and educational programme. I think a student with special educational needs is a great good thing for school, for education, for other children. Let's all try to start with each other today and get involved in inclusive education, try to understand it. Let us show patience and concern and teach patience and care through the school of all children. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u331	Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the votes? I can't see. I'm closing the list of speakers and thus opening the discussion. Mr Andrzej Kryj will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u332	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The problem we are discussing today is indeed very important, and at the same time extremely bearable socially. The information that appears in the media causes understandable concern for parents, because how else can a parent react if there are titles of the type "MEN" wants to give up teaching individual children in schools, in a situation where such a child has so far used something like this. I think that the State of the opposition senses this anxiety, which is often turned up so completely premeditatedly, hence today's discussion. The Member who justified the proposal spoke about autistic children. Indeed, I also received such signals from the parents of autistic children, because I work very closely with this environment. That is why I would like to ask the Minister at the moment whether, after the changes that are being made in the media, the student with autism will actually be able to have individual classes at school, or will remain in a situation where they will be deprived of these classes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u333	Thank you. I ask the floor of Krystyna Shumilas.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u334	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Well, I regret to say that it is the Minister who misleads the public by saying that children who have individual teaching are not those children who will be harmed by your regulation. Well, Honorata was born with a meningeal hernia, a spinal bifida. He doesn't go in a wheelchair, but he can't be a school student. Maybe from time to time, come to school for some classes. The honorata has individual education awarded by the school. So far Honorata has been able to come to school for art lessons, music, even Polish language, because it was in 2008 that we introduced into the regulation that a child who has individual education due to illness can participate in school classes to integrate. Honorata's mom says if she hadn't been in touch with the kids in class, she wouldn't have had the kind of motor that drives her to talk. You want to deprive Honorata of participation in lessons, and that's what's scandalous. We're protesting against it. Minister, if you remove from the regulation that we introduced in 2008, the thought that these children can take lessons or have classes in school, you will throw these children out of school, lock them in the house, let the teacher go to the children's classroom, but you will not let the child go to school anymore. And it's beasty. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to those most disadvantaged children. We protest against this and protest because this regulation was good. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u335	Mrs Urszula Rusecka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u336	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have questions, but I have to take them back. I would ask you very much to master the bad emotions that are on this scale. I think it's scandalous to play emotions where they're not supposed to be. I have a question, Minister. Individual or individual pre-school training is intended for pupils whose health status prevents or significantly impedes schooling or pre-schooling. In principle, it should be helpful for the student, taken for his good. However, these were not always the reasons for choosing this form of teaching. Individual teaching should allow a gradual and stress-free return of the child to normal functioning in the peer group. So are there solutions in the proposed regulation that allow sick children to participate in school life? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u337	Thank you. And Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u338	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I don't know if you understand what we're asking you if you're deliberately trying to mislead your parents or if you don't know what you're talking about. I'm just going to remind you a little bit of what it's like to teach individuals to include children in the school system. Minister, it is estimated that in Poland 18 the entire student population are young people with special educational needs. This group includes students with disabilities, dyslexia, hyperactivity, chronic diseases. In practice, this means that there is a very large group of children with special educational needs in each primary school. The aim of the school should be to support the learning and upbringing of these students in order to achieve the best possible results. The objective of an inclusive model of education and education is to maximise the inclusion of children and young people, which will enable them to develop comprehensively. Minister, I will briefly mention the objectives of integration education: participation in local school communities, reduction of barriers to education, treatment of differences in individual student problems as a hint for the whole teaching system, and not as a problem to jump over, as you interpret it, bringing the local community's attention to the rights of pupils to become involved in the general education system, strengthening the role of school in building the local community, emphasising the role of integration education in the integration of society as a whole. The humanist approach to children with disabilities is characterised by all European societies, and so far it has characterized Poland. Respect for the elderly, children with disabilities, is an indication of mature civil society. All over the world, action is being taken to involve children... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal, just a second, okay? ...to treat them as a subject of complex influences for comprehensive development. For many years we have also been moving towards inclusive education in Poland. Then I ask you, Minister, what were your reasons for making such a decision. Don't you really care about those banners that your parents prepared yesterday on this demonstration before the Sejm, where they wrote: "Great kids, no MEN will change this, and "Socialization, integration," not isolation."
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u339	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u340	Minister, think again. I'm asking you to. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u341	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Anna April.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u342	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a very brief question relating to an important element of the education system, which is psychological and pedagogical counseling, and more precisely it is the decisions given by the decision-making teams operating at these counseling rooms. Are you planning to change the issue of judgments, and if so, what are the changes? I think there's been a lot of opinions around this, too. Some parents claim that it is very easy, even too easy to obtain such a judgment. Others claim that it is too difficult that their children needed such a judgment and could not receive it. That is why I hope that you will bend over to this problem. If so, please communicate what changes are planned. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u343	I understand Mr Sławomir Piechota isn't here, right? [[He's at a committee meeting.]] Mrs Anna Cicholska, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u344	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! In recent years, Polish schools have seen increasing use of individual teaching as a way of dealing with difficult students. Teachers complain about problems with students, parents complain about other children. The problem becomes even more up-to-date and bright. And where are the disabled students who are not allowed to stay under school conditions? In this connection, I have to ask the Minister: What are the measures taken by the Ministry of National Education to involve children with disabilities in the education process? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u345	Thank you, Member. Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u346	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister Beata Szydło during the 2015 election campaign said: My name is Beata, Beata Szydło, I will listen to people. Yesterday, parents of disabled children demanded not to take away their educational opportunities. They said socialization, integration, not isolation. We also had protests from parents of disabled children, March 2014, and we were able to listen to them. Then we raised the care provision of 800 PLN so that today, thanks to the law that we prepared then, it amounts to 1406 PLN and this increase is guaranteed by law through constant valorization. What are you doing? Last year, despite the ruling of the Constitutional Court, you did not immediately grant a nursing service to a second parent who raises another disabled child and resigns from employment. You have not admitted this benefit until this year, because 15 million PLN was missing. Minister Zielenecki said there is no money. Yesterday, parents of disabled children demanded that their children be treated on an equal footing with disabled children. You don't seem to be listening to them. So I have this simple question: are you implementing some government anti-disabled package? Because that's what it looks like. Listen to these parents, see these children, and maybe your hearts will soften, and you will feel that these children must not be isolated. They really don't deserve it, they do. They need individual education in schools. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u347	Thank you, Member. Before I ask another person to speak, I would like to inform the High House that a group of young people from schools from the municipality of Ulan are listening to our discussions. We cordially greet you. [[Applause]] I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Ewa Szymańska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u348	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I think everyone will agree that the state of health of the child should not be the reason why he is deprived of learning opportunities and opportunities to implement programme content, as well as contacts with his peers and participation in the life of the preschool or school community. Therefore, I have a question to ask the Minister: What support can a child with a chronic illness, a school or kindergarten, provide, which prevents or significantly makes it difficult to attend school or kindergarten? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u349	Thank you. And Mrs Eve Kołodziej. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u350	Thank you, Marshal. I would like to ask you a number of questions about the I-III textbooks. I would like to remind you that a very good manual has been prepared under the PO-PSL regime, also adapted to children with special educational needs. These textbooks contained pictograms, had a Braille overlay and assistance to teachers that were available on a dedicated IT platform available to all those concerned for free because they were licensed free. Most importantly, these textbooks for Polish students were completely free. I would like to ask: What happened to these textbooks? Here it is worth mentioning that their preparation and production cost the budget of PLN 60 million. Since you had great textbooks ready, do you think that what we've worked out is worthless? Did you think it was worth throwing it in the trash and trying to experiment quickly on your knee? Will your textbooks be better? Here we have concrete doubts, because there is very little time. So I ask: What textbooks will Polish children learn from in the new school year, i.e. from September 1st? I also have a serious suggestion. Will special needs of children with special educational needs be included in these manuals? Will you meet these children and their needs? What worries us is that teachers and parents and children will not be able to get acquainted with these textbooks, because there is really very little time. So, specifically, when will the textbook be known and made public? We are interested in whether these textbooks will be compatible with the software base. In this matter, too, we have concerns. Please answer all these questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u351	Thank you, Member. Before I ask Mrs Iwona Michalek, I would like to inform the High House that not only young people from the municipality of Ulan listen to our discussions, but also young people from Primary School No. 29 and young people from the School of School Brothers - both schools from Czestochowa. We also greet young people from Częstochowa. [[Applause]] I would like to ask the honourable Member to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u352	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to get back to the past a little bit. 17 November 2010 The Ministry of National Education issued a regulation on the rules for the provision and organisation of psychological and pedagogical assistance in public kindergartens, schools and institutions. I remember exactly the confusion that was then in schools, because a huge number of new tasks were imposed on teachers, not only teachers, psychologists, but also teachers. I would like to ask if the Ministry knows if it has any data, as at the time the school was prepared for these new tasks. What was done? Who's been trained? How have they been trained? How were they given tools for these new tasks? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u353	Thank you. And Mr Sławomir Piechota, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u354	Thank you, Marshal. People with disabilities in Poland have something to fear, Minister, and we are not scaring them. This disfellowshipping attitude, this stigmatizing attitude manifests itself in many of your actions. It's not a coincidence, it's not an accident, it's a state of mind. You didn't want permission to vote disabled people by proxy. You didn't want to vote for people with disabilities by mail. The Consultative Board for Disabled Persons has not been operational for a year. You who have talked so much about dialogue, consultation, listening to people, have been unable to set up a consultative council on people with disabilities for a year. The Sign Language Council has been out of service for a year. [[Voice from the hall: Yes, sir, bravo!]] By destroying the civilian service, you threw away your preferences in hiring people with disabilities in public administration. And a thing that's terribly embarrassing. Each time you celebrate it with neat formulas, explaining that we do not understand the words that we do not speak Polish. You have excluded children with disabilities to a light degree from the 500+ programme. Each disabled child has this priority that the first child can get this benefit, but not children with disabilities to a light degree. What's a little group like between 16 and 18? When it comes to light-weight children, this light degree is often the result of hard and long-term work by rehabilitators and parents. And you're still explaining that it comes from family benefits, from an earlier system. You're not gonna mess things up. Disabled people have nothing to fear. This policy of exclusion has many manifestations. Let's hope that this plarum, which is also raised today in this Chamber, will cause - not because you will believe in policies involving people with disabilities when it comes to dignified and subjective treatment, just because you are afraid of society - that you will be so horribly ugly as not to say shameful actions you will withdraw. That's what I'm asking. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u355	Please take the floor from Mrs Alicja Kaczorowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u356	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Learning irregularities have been growing in education for many years. Perhaps their reason is to mix the concept of individual teaching with the concept of individualisation of teaching. This may be the case, but the reason for this may be the lack of clarification of the meaning of these terms and relevant legislation. I am not a teacher, but even to me a doctor is clear that individual teaching should be reserved for this group of children who temporarily cannot attend school or kindergarten, most often due to non-chronic illness, both for those children with disabilities and for those who do not demonstrate them. On the other hand, all children in well-being, as far as their health opportunities, state of development, etc. are allowed, should be included in school education and kindergarten enriched where necessary, by individualization of teaching in this home institution. Such a chapter ensures the development of children in an optimal, natural environment, in a group of peers. Minister! Are you aware of previous attempts to clean up these mechanisms and to change legislation in this area? The point is whether there have been trials to include all children in educational institutions forever, and only those who temporarily require it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u357	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Augustynowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u358	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The draft regulation removes the possibility of really combining teaching individual children and their participation in schools, in classes at school. This means, in fact, for many students, reducing the number of hours of classes and closing at home. The project mainly hits children with disabilities, depriving them of their ability to integrate with their peers. What's it like, Minister? Was this regulation agreed with the Prime Minister? I am very interested in this, because I recall the Life Act, on the occasion of which the Prime Minister promised a whole package of support for families with children with disabilities. She promised and said here, from this parliamentary platform, that these children and these families deserve special care and care and that further mechanisms would be put in place to improve their situation. Meanwhile, this draft regulation assumes that children with disabilities, if they have recommended individual teaching at home, will not be able to take part in school classes. Is this what the Prime Minister has announced for families with disabilities? Individual teaching is much less than at school - in I-III classes it is a maximum of 8 hours, in senior primary school classes - up to 12 and in high school - up to 16 hours. The teacher will be coming 1 and 2 days home for the rest of the time the child will be sitting at home with his parents. Why the regulation divides children into those that are 100% fit for school And the ones that aren't fit for school at all? Why will the consequences of this failed education reform hit not only the children, but also the parents who, if they were working, will now have to give up their jobs to stay home with the child? Is it true that the real reason for this regulation is that after the reform of education physically there will be a shortage of places in crowded schools, [[♪ The bell ♪]] will there be a shortage of rooms to conduct individual classes? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u359	Thank you. Mrs Teresa Wargocka, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u360	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear Members, The debate, which, at least in its assumptions, was supposed to lead to some clarification of this issue that we are discussing today, has actually actually obscured it even further. We are still in such a situation that we do not distinguish individual teaching from individual learning. And we understand that very well. So I will also allow myself a very general reference to why we have a strong increase in individual teaching decisions. [[It hurts financially, you don't want to pay.]] No. Okay, that's your opinion, but I want to tell you why. Because the state in the field of education also devoted a lot of time to PR. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And I absolutely disagree with Mrs Augustine's statement, who said: "We have done this with great success, inclusive education we have done with great success. Ladies and gentlemen... [[It's working.]] No, inclusive education doesn't work because you've been doing conferences, promoting... [[Voice from the room: Premiere is what you do.]] ...and writing down laws that were not followed by organizational solutions and competences of teachers. [[Member, don't embarrass yourself.]] I don't embarrass myself, I say words that are true and move you. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Disabled children are locked in the house.]] ...the name of individual teaching defines the situation... [[Voice from the room: You have to lock up at home.]] ...is about a student who can't. [[♪ The bell ♪]] To go to school. The regulation allows for this, even encourages it and allows for contact with the student community in other school activities, and we must finally get this straightened out. And yet, believe me, we have such signals that it is this state record that the principal can say: There will be individual teaching at school, provided that you bring this child, because it is too expensive to drive there. This needs to be organized, not to play with PR, scare the parents. I'd like to ask the Minister if... [[Voice from the room: Time is up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u361	Commissioner, unfortunately, time has passed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u362	I'm almost done. I would just like to ask the Minister if there are any consultations in the Ministry, meetings with the environment...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u363	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u364	...parents we listen to in every situation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u365	Thank you very much, Member. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, both on one side and on the other, that we do not interfere in the course of speaking. Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u366	Thank you, Marshal. It is precisely Mrs Wargock's statement that the PiS is a state of mind and attitude towards people with disabilities, and that it is also a state of mind in your case to ignore them in participation in the full life of people with disabilities. Unfortunately, it's not the first time. Ms. Cicholska, asking a question here today, also said: Children, these disabled people, are a problem at school... [[No, not disabled.]] ...and the parents of other healthy children protest against it. So what are we supposed to do? Let's lock these kids in their homes. But today's debate is not the first time, which is why I am talking about state of mind. 2007, Mr. Legutko, Minister of Education of PiS... What did he do? Identically treated children who were chronically ill. We know that every disabled child is a child who is chronically ill, but not every chronically ill child is disabled, but still you have assigned children who are chronically ill to the disabled, and what did you say? Children who are chronically ill are to learn at home, not to go to kindergarten and not to participate in their peers' lives, even in preschools, because they are to be at home. It was a circular issued by Legutka, sent out after the probation officers, and then after all kindergartens. We had to change that. Today, children who are chronically ill and children who are disabled to the extent they can participate in pre-school life, pre-school education, school life and school education. You want to change that. Would the parents of these children protest as harshly and sometimes really desperately as yesterday before the Sejm? All you have to do is read what the parents of such children write. Minister, they're the ones who want to unfreeze their ears in spite of their grandmother's anger and say, "Is it so great that we protest against him?" Think about it, there's still time. This is a draft regulation. Don't do things like that, because you're gonna be [[♪ The bell ♪]] Burn in hell. You can't do that. Children with disabilities have the right to a peer's life and to a good education regardless of the costs they are today. I ask you to do so and I appeal to you to do so. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u367	Please take the floor of Mr Dariusz Piontkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u368	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Listening to the POs, I feel that they are immune to what is said to them, or do not want to listen just and including to arouse the emotions of those who are most affected. The state speaks of inclusive teaching, socialisation, integration and rightly. That's what the Minister says, but when the Minister talks about it, you don't want to hear it. You're only saying what you're programmed to say or what you've been taught. When a problem arises, you try to stir people up, often trying to convince them that reality is completely different. Minister! Is this draft regulation we are currently discussing in some way also based on experience, international research? Do we accept experiences that exist in other countries? 'Cause no one's ever asked that before. Here's another piece. We are talking about a group of children with disabilities and maybe it would be worth reminding once again how big this group is. You were talking about finance here. Maybe we should also try to find out what the scale of the problem really is, and whether this is really a huge amount of money in the entire education budget. I would also ask you to include this element. And the last item that you were talking about here, that's where the storm's going. We are talking about individual teaching to children in an emergency - in a situation where they cannot go outside the house in practice, they cannot attend school. You demand that these children also be able to take part in classes with children at school. Will this regulation prevent children - including those who have individual teaching - from coming to school and having part of their classes with children? The last piece of propaganda you're doing as an example of your paper. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and friendly media. A flagship example here was the 7-year-old Franek, who was to be the victim of this draft regulation. In the title of the newspaper there was information that children with individual teaching would be banned from school and if it came into force, Franek would lose everything. Frank's mom wrote on her blog: Franek felt terrible, came home from school in worse and worse condition, after consulting physiotherapists, we decided that we had to go and change the ruling so that it was individual teaching. And then my mom writes on her blog that if Franek...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u369	Mr President, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u370	He'll get stronger, he'll go back to school. Also, listen to what your parents say...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u371	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u372	...and what it says. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u373	Thank you, sir. I'm asking everyone else to watch their time. [[Mr President, don't you understand that the state of the child can change?]] Mrs Radziszewska, please. I'm asking you all to keep an eye on... [[You don't understand.]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] (PL) Mr President, Mr President, I also ask you very much to watch your time because we are in the 90-minute regime, so if we continue this, other Members will not be able to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u374	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There were barbaric peoples in ancient times who had disabled children throwing themselves into the abyss. There were totalitarians in the 20th century who sentenced the disabled to death. Even today, in the 21st century, there appear on the Polish political scene those who disdain people with disabilities. You're talking about us grown-ups, worse sort. Half of poverty, pal six, we will survive this, but when you put this sick concept into practice, extending it to small children, we cannot keep silent, so today I am acting on behalf of those who have the ability to speak but also development have been taken away as a result of reforms - on behalf of children with disabilities. In the new software base for kindergartens almost all references to children with disabilities have disappeared, including alternative methods of agreement, thanks to which using special computer programs not speaking children learned to communicate, among others. maintainers information about their needs. It doesn't mention sign language either. These shortcomings will make sure that kindergartens do not receive additional funding for the appropriate programs, for the training of carers, nor will they receive money for therapists. And children without a chance to develop will be cut off from the possibility of communicating with the outside world. That is why I ask the Minister: Why have references to children with disabilities disappeared in the curriculum for kindergarten, and whether, in view of this situation, the dramatic appeals of parents of children with disabilities and therapists make it possible for you to amend the programme base for kindergarten without delay? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u375	Please, Mrs Lidia Burzyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u376	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Listening, I'm actually looking in my head, in the memory of which to use as a Member, as a mother and as a teacher not to blush. Today, the speaker said: close, discriminate, treat people with disabilities with dignity. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now quote the encyclopedic interpretation of individual teaching. But you know what you know. and that which each of us, having read, understands, will not be accepted into your minds. Individual or individual pre-school training shall include pupils whose health status prevents or significantly impedes school attendance. The applicant reached here, even waving it to us, the 2006 Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. I'll go, ma'am, further. I don't know if you know this, but a declaration has been signed in Salamanca, Spain. The content of this declaration says this: This document indicates that children with special educational needs must have access - attention - to ordinary schools that should receive them as part of a teaching centred on the child's interest. Schools with such open orientation are the most effective means of combating discrimination and ownership. [[Nothing, just put it into practice.]] Ma'am, is my speech a debate with you? Like you said, I wasn't interrupting. Tell me... [[I say, Bravo!]] ...at which point a child can learn and go to school [[♪ The bell ♪]] I want it to be, as you think, treated differently. Shouldn't it be with her peers? Is it supposed to be isolated? Individual teaching is needed when it cannot come to school. [[But what are you talking about?]] The question, Minister, is: Are the activities of the Ministry of National Education going towards helping these children... [[Mr. Marshal, time.]] ...so that, as this country very much... Do you mind if I...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u377	Madam, finish the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u378	Will you let me finish? [[Time.]] If you didn't mind, it wouldn't be. I'll say it again. Do the activities of the Ministry of National Education go towards helping children so that, as you say from the Civic Platform, they do not close them, not isolate them, but include them in peer groups? Thank you very much. [[Voice from the O.R.: Activate.]] Turn it on. Excuse me. Turn it on. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u379	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please, before you... [[Voice from the room: Teacher, turn it on.]] Mr President, let me ask you with a warm request, with a kind request to the Members of the House, most of whom, as far as I know, are educators, teachers. We're being watched by young people. Let us, my dear Members, the teachers, these young people, not leave this House with such conviction that here only Members are arguing. And please allow me to... [[Mr. Marshal, I'm asking you too.]] ...a cultural opportunity, Mrs Magdalena Kochan, for her colleagues from other clubs to ask questions. And with the same appeal, of course, I address the other messengers. [[That's enough, Mr. Marshal.]] I would ask you to speak, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u380	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Hello, dear young people! Your Ministry, Minister, has presented changes to the individual training project. The project eliminates the possibility of learning with the teacher alone at school. Until now, it has been possible to participate in classes in the school building and in part of the lesson. This form allowed the student to learn as much as possible, but at the same time it allowed the student even minimal, but contact with his peers made it possible to build social relations. Currently, there are four opportunities to educate children with problems: individual teaching only at home, at home and partly at school, individual teaching at school and individual teaching at school and in part in lessons. Children enjoying, I agree with you, the individual teaching according to MEN is 22,000. Children with Asperger's syndrome or autism take part in individual activities, and partly in the group allow them to get used to reality. Empathy must be shown in order to accept such a form of teaching, and it must be completely deprived of it, in order to exclude children from the group of their peers, especially since in many cases such a combination of two forms of teaching will lead to full integration, if possible of course. The exclusive domestic teaching of children condemns them to loneliness, and parents rumble from the labour market. I have a question for the Minister. Do you think that an unadjusted child, as the MEN calls them, should continue teaching in a special school? And what criteria would the Ministry of National Education want to apply to identify children with disabilities? And finally, I'll tell you one thing, Minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Parents are already sufficiently frightened, and this debate should serve to reflect. That's what we're asking. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u381	Thank you, sir. And Mr Mark Polak, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u382	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We all know that for children with disabilities despite their dysfunction, the presence in the environment of their peers, from preschool age, through years of learning to full maturity, is of great importance for shaping their personality, learning their vital functions and continuing to be among people. In my opinion, it is also a unique lesson for children with disabilities, who already learn in school that there is a group of people who, despite their dysfunctions, are full citizens - thus learning sensitivity, solidarity and cooperation in the further coexistence. That is why I would like to ask the Minister whether the proposed regulation we are debating today can somehow hinder this natural process of building mutual tolerance, harmony and social solidarity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u383	Thank you, sir. Mr Józef Lassota, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u384	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to bring up a matter which may not be the responsibility of the Minister, but it is, nevertheless, related to what we are talking about, and therefore to inclusion. Today we are discussing the integration of children into the environment of their peers. I would also like to talk about the occupational therapy workshops. This already applies to older young people, including adults, but since this is one string, this issue, I also wanted to address this issue. The tasks of workshops of occupational therapy are general improvement, development of the skills to perform daily activities, preparation for life in the social environment, development of basic professional skills. I am talking about this because there are such signals that it is planned to change these activities in such a way as to release to the market disabled people who are in the workshops of occupational therapy. I would like to remind you that occupational therapy workshops are non-commercial, non-profit-making, by principle, by law. If that were really the intention of these people to prepare for release, it would be very bad, because these people can't handle it. That's why I'm addressing the Minister, because I'm sure you're talking about it in different government departments, too, to pay attention not to messing with the occupation therapy workshops so far. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u385	Thank you, sir. And Mr Piotr Polak, please. There's no envoy. In that case, Mrs Magdalena Kochan.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u386	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In many cases in our speeches, the Law and Justice options and the Civic Platform options sound the same notes, but in many - completely different. I have to say, we have the right to a difference of opinion, but we have no right to insult each other. Meanwhile, from this speaker you are talking about manipulating and integrating children's problems into politics, lies, political abuse. This is not a good way of discussing when we all seem to care about the welfare of children, including children with disabilities. I would even believe that you want really well if it weren't for the fact that it's an undisputed fact. We have 12 hospital schools in Poland, which also includes education. A child who has to be treated for a year in a hospital can go back to his class, because in this hospital he learns at school, he simply learns and can pass to the next class, so he goes back to his peers despite his illness. You've reduced the funding to these schools, you've reduced it. You are reducing the qualifications of people - teachers - who are to work with children of special needs. Is this the way to take care of these kids? I don't think so. Did the state in the Family Support Act and the foster care system propose that children be separated from children from social services homes, especially those with disabilities, in no way being able to deal with disabled children? A lot of these things we've been able to stop. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let me tell you this: the most difficult to destroy are the barriers in our minds. As far as we really are concerned about the welfare of children, let us not destroy what Members with empathy have been building for 27 years. Don't destroy something that worked just because it was built by your predecessors. Let's fix it together. 15% people with disabilities live among us, children are full citizens of our country. Let's take care of them together, don't be offended. And correct what I just asked you. And last question: Has Mr Krzysztof Michałkiewicz, a representative of the government for persons with disabilities, been asked about this draft regulation? Because in my opinion, the government's representative for persons with disabilities had no right to remain silent on this matter, as the Ombudsman of the rights of the child was not silent. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u387	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Anna Białkowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u388	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The sovereign whom your party is so often calling for, mostly does not agree to the reform of education that is currently being introduced. And here is another shocking public opinion in recent days about the assumptions of the education of disabled pupils coming from the ministry headed by you, asking a question about the principle that the state is directing. It is clear that education for children with disabilities is difficult and requires serious effort and increases costs. But is it possible to go back to the time before two or more generations, when disabled children were a disgrace to their parents when they were hidden in their homes when the form of their education eliminated them forever from the life of the community? It's almost 200,000. children, children with mental impairment, but also children with poor hearing, visually impaired, physical or autistic disabilities. In the name of what values should we move away from integration and the fight against social exclusion? What are the rules for the education of children with disabilities, which you intend to implement by issuing implementing regulations for existing laws? In December, the Council of Ministers adopted the Life Programme, which highlights the role of education for people with disabilities. So which of the posts is the right one? Will your assistance to mothers who decide to give birth to a disabled child be limited to a transfer of 4 000? zł and possible a few more pennies later? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u389	Thank you. And Mrs Anna Wasilewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u390	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The draft regulation on the individual teaching of children and young people resigned from the provision to organise individual teaching at school. My parents are asking me to intervene and help because they believe that the changes made are harmful to children with physical disabilities, but above all for mentally impaired, visually impaired, hearing impaired and children with associated disabilities. Parents fear isolation from their peers and the regression of their development. They appreciate so far inclusive teaching, which is extremely important in teaching children about special educational needs. In addition, they raise the financial problem of their family. In such a situation, if a child is to have an individual education only at home, one parent must resign to care for the child. What will happen to children who are mentally retarded to a deep degree? After all, they are also students of the school. It is worth noting that working with such people by teachers at school brings the desired results in the form of students gaining new functional competences. Minister, why did the authors of the draft regulation fail to take into account the views of parents who are clearly opposed to the proposed changes? Please reconsider the changes and do not change what works well. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u391	Thank you, Member. And Mrs Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, please take the floor. There is no Member. This is Mrs Bożena Kaminska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u392	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I have a question that concerns the deprivation of the case law of the psych-pedagogical clinic. Why would you want to deprive the clinics that employ professionals, psychologists, diagnostics and case law by handing them over to teachers and school heads? Now is it a mathematician, a teacher of physical education, or a physicist who will be a team of caselaws? The needs of children and the specifics of teaching are different, and disorders are not only physical disabilities among children, but also other disabilities that are hidden, and locking them in their homes will certainly not help them to socialise and integrate into the environment. Why would the Minister want to isolate and condemn these children to teaching only in their homes? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u393	Thank you. And Mrs Zofia Czernow, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u394	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The changes introduced by the regulation are particularly harmful to sick children and their families, to whom not only the number of hours of study is reduced but also their contact with their peers is deprived. Parents are also deprived of their opportunities to work. The harm of this regulation has a much broader social and educational impact. By closing preschools and schools in front of sick children and isolating them from our peers, we do not teach children tolerance, acceptance of illness, disability or any other. And this is the first step to stigmatization, to social exclusion. Children should grow in their environment without eliminating anyone. Why does the Minister not take into account the risk of intolerance and exclusion as a result of this regulation? I'm asking for an answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u395	Thank you. Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u396	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Law and Justice still want to share Poles. After introducing a ban on co-existence of care facilities for the elderly and children, now PiS wants to separate sick and disabled children from their peers without giving them the opportunity to integrate. [[Where is such a record, Member?]] The lack of individual education within a school or kindergarten will result in changes in the life of the whole family. Individual teaching at home takes less time than schooling. Who will provide care for these children in the case of working parents? Leave the decision where to learn sick children, specialists and parents. Why are you ruining individual teachings that work well in institutions again? I hope that you will withdraw from these wrong decisions that harm children with disabilities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u397	As the last Mr Robert Winnicki. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u398	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, it is right for the Ministry of Education to clarify any doubts about individual education. On the other hand, to be honest, I am very disgusted by the speeches made by Members of the Civic Platform, who are wiping their mouths out of children with disabilities today, [[Applause]] And in October, they fought so heroically, fought for eugenic abortion because of disability, for unborn children to be killed. [[That's not true. You know that.]] [[One big lie. Where's the question?]] Thank you, Marshal. [[The voice from the hall: Mother of God!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u399	Mother of God... You're welcome... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mother... Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants, Ms Ursula Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u400	Thank you, Marshal. I see Mr. Marshal is in as much shock as we are. My predecessor's speech was just outrageous. [[Applause]] Minister, I kind of feel like we're all getting lost in these rules. And so is the Minister. Although you are very heroic in defending your opinion here, you say that it is so that there are very different definitions, right, we are talking about inclusive teaching, about individual educational programs. But I feel like we're getting a little lost, and so are the Minister. Therefore, I would like to ask one very simple question and only this simple question please answer me. I think that then we, and the parents who protested in front of Parliament yesterday, before the Sejm and today are with us in the courtroom, will have clarity. [[Let us welcome them, Member. Let's say hello and say hello. Greetings, ladies and gentlemen.]] [[Applause]] You would like to hear the answer to just one question: Will individual teaching be possible after agreement, you know, first after the decision of the clinic and then after agreement with the school director, teacher and parent? And it will be possible to implement them either at home or at school, depending on the situation of the child, what is the need of the child? And therefore inclusive teaching can also be carried out? If you answer that question, we'll be clear. Because for now, we are talking about this conceptual mess, and for now we are talking about it -- the minister used this phrase -- that we're scaring our parents. Mother, my dear, as we issued the regulation in 2008, my parents didn't go out on the street, their parents didn't protest. Why, when they read your project, they're protesting today, writing banners and rebelling? Minister Wargock talked about the fact that there is no inclusive education. Then why do parents insist that they don't pick her up? If she's not here, what are you picking up? Something's not right. I have the impression that intentions are probably good, but execution is fatal. And I ask the Minister to be polite about this regulation - this is a draft regulation - to deprive this one return that individual teaching can only be at home. I read the explanation of the Ministry of Education, which was on the website, and in this explanation I read: Organizing individual teaching for a disabled student whose health condition allows him to attend school does not improve his workings at school and in a peer group and does not socialize. Yes, because this child should be taught at school, not at home. It means that you were going to write - and so you wrote - that this child will be taught at home. It can't be taught at home. This agreement, the flexible solution that has so far been in place, should continue to function. And I ask the Minister very kindly to answer this question, whether you will remove this sentence from the regulation or not - that sentence which says that individual teaching will only take place at home and not in kindergarten or school. That's the key, and that's the key we're asking for. Madam Minister, in these statements which Members have presented, there have been several times a phrase which is also in your speech and in what is on the MEN's website as an explanation, because there are some abuses in this matter. Maybe they are. I don't know if they are, you're checking, maybe you know they are. If they are, there's no reason to pour out a baby with a bath and to say no right away, we're losing everything. Take advantage of what is good experience, and try, if you find abuse, to fight only these abuses. There's no reason to punish everyone for something that's not their fault. I'm asking you very kindly. I think it would be really important for everyone. These statements, which came from this place today, also show that the changes that you are planning - we call them a deformity, because it really is a deformity, not a reform of education - there is much more confusion for this environment, for parents and students with different kinds of malpractice, diseases or disabilities. A lot, really much, starting with the fact that there is still trouble with the basics for children with light disabilities, starting with the fact that there are problems with textbooks, starting with the fact that we still have trouble determining how long it will be possible to educate pupils with disabilities. Because you changed the school system, didn't you? So far, if the child attended kindergarten, then to primary school and junior high school, in total these educational stages allowed him to be in the system until he was 24, even up to the age of 25. Okay, and there's a record that a kid can be in primary school until he's 18. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Now what? What's the principal gonna do now that he's got a kid in primary school and there's no more middle school to send a student to? And what, you're gonna let him continue to be in this system? School heads don't know it, teachers don't know it, parents don't know it. If the Minister answers them, I think the situation will calm down. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u401	Thank you, Member. Before I ask the Minister to speak, I would like to inform all the ladies and gentlemen that this time our deliberations are being listened to by young people from the School Group. Queen Jadwiga in Łodygowice near Bielsko-Biała. And the young people were invited here by Mr Stanisław Pieta. We welcome you very warmly. [[Applause]] And the Minister, please speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u402	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! There are words today: exclusion, isolation, stigmatization. And I was thinking, listening to these words - I listened carefully - that isolation, stigmatisation, exclusion are unfortunately the specialty of Members of the Civic Platform. [[Touchdown, applause]] It's too bad that language... [[Why are you doing this?]] Yeah, why are you doing this? That's a good question. Why are you doing this when you're discussing such an important problem? [[Why are you doing this?]] Please consider the fact that we are discussing a serious problem. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Yes.]] And this problem needs to be considered. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies could... [[There's no reason to insult us.]] That's what I'm talking about. There's no reason to insult me. You did not need to be insulted in your speeches, instead of asking specific, precise questions. [[Applause]] [[Then answer our questions.]] I'll answer that. And I have the impression that some people have been very confused about their questions, because actually, to be honest, I have convinced you, but you haven't been able to admit it, and you're still in your humiliation. [[Applause]] [[No, you didn't convince us.]] For I do not believe that you are unable to hear and hear what is said. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But please convince us.]] On the other hand, I think I have the right to speak, and I am proposing that you do not deprive me of this right. What I'm trying to say is that the Ministry of National Education listens very much... [[Which shows what you're reacting to us.]] We listen to your parents' voices and even your voices, and I promise that all the questions that will not be answered today will not be answered - and because of the time limit I am unable to do so, and I will want to answer all the questions very precisely - questions that you will not hear today, we will answer in writing. That's what I promise you. I will try to group some questions and answer them. On the other hand, I am sorry that we are talking in such an atmosphere and with such unpleasant emotions, based unfortunately on false premises, manipulations and semi-truths. [[Exactly. Isn't that insulting?]] I would like to say that MEN listens to the voices of teachers and parents of people with disabilities, environments. By 19 May, everyone can send an opinion on the draft regulation and 15 May at 3 p.m. 10 A meeting will be held at the centre of the social dialogue on planned changes in education for children and young people with special educational problems. I think we will discuss in detail not only this regulation. Of course, preparing for changes and the introduction of inclusive education, we do so in a way and courageously, and consistent. We want to move away from isolation and from the fact that the state specially mixes disease with disability. But the doctors spoke about it. What I'm trying to say is that disability is not a disease. She may be accompanied by a disease that prevents her from going to school, but disability is not a disease. Our task, our ambition - and I think deep down in our hearts You too are here - it is that children with disabilities are at school and with their peers. This is our goal and our task. [[Applause]] I also want to make it clear that just because children are going to school doesn't mean they're gonna be deprived of individual classes at school. I'm gonna say this again because I feel like we're listening and not hearing. Yes, a child who has special educational needs, I assure you... [[But we're talking about other children, Minister.]] We're talking about a girl, too, Honor... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u403	Mrs... I'm so sorry, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: ...who will not be deprived... You're welcome... Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: Yeah, well, there's a level of discussion that needs to be maintained. Let me... Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: I will not be afraid, I will be happy to speak with Minister Shumilas if she is open not to yelling, but to pass on arguments. I think that deep down we are convinced that children with disabilities should be in school and with their peers. And that's the inclusion education, not the taking of children out of their class, from their peer group, into classes outside of this class. [[What if they can't?]] If children cannot attend school because of illness, they will be home, and if they can attend school, they will benefit from two modes. I'll explain it again. It is best for them to be in a peer group - if anyone is able to understand it, he will understand - and if the child cannot be in a peer group, he will have individual activities. It will be classes in lower groups or individual classes, it will be therapeutic, compensatory or subjective activities. And now... [[What if the kid doesn't spend so many hours in school?]] If you've already asked that question, I'll try to answer it. That question you'd like to hear the answer to. If the child can sit, he will sit if he can't sit, then the school will try to prepare the best conditions. I think it's like throwing and showing... Yeah, we scared those parents, and we're really trying to confuse and confuse concepts, and it's basically the same thing that education is all about, so that the kids are in the environment, so that they can socialize, socialize, so that they can interact and grow. You have to prepare courageously some solutions, because they don't work today. You're trying the truth that we're doing it consistently, yelling. You're just trying to manipulate it somehow. I ask that we talk about this seriously, seriously, as is the case with the Member, as is the Minister and the former Minister. I think it's pretty clear to us, and at this point, it's obvious. Once again, we have the same goal with the parents who are here. I can assure you that there will be three options, and I will make it very clear: inclusive education - the child is in school when he has a need, has individual classes - individual teaching for a sick child who cannot attend school, and so-called. mixed form. This will result from three jointly prepared regulations. We realize that there are diseases that make it impossible to go to school in one week, and in the second week they allow it, and here you have to remain flexible. Here, too, I can promise you that this kind of form it is not only that the child has 3 hours, 3 hours in the group and 3 hours outside the group it will also be possible, but as part of an individual educational program - I assume that you understand that there is individual teaching and individual therapy programme. Within this programme there can be three lessons in the peer group in their class and three individual lessons. And that's one thing. If a child cannot go to school, and I tell you again, and I know that you understand that disability is not a disease, it can be accompanied by a disease, if accompanied by a disease preventing him from going to school, then the child is staying for a limited period of time at school and the teachers come to him so that he can implement the programme basis. [[Voices from the hall: At home.]] And there are kids who can be a week or three days in school, but the next day or another day it turns out they don't. And in agreement with the school and on the basis of regulations, we will prepare such a solution so that children affected by the disease, without disability, although this can also be accompanied by disability, can have such activities. This is the object of our concern, this is our task. We are based on Polish research and international research, we work with international organisations and I would like to say that this is a modern approach, which is, yes, demanding. It is demanding for us, it is demanding for the school, it is demanding for teachers, because each teacher will implement, if necessary, individual educational and therapeutic programs, will be able to individualise teaching within the group. Because actually, as someone picked it up here, there is a child whose education is harder to learn, so let's send them to a doctor, let him have individual teaching, let's isolate them. And that's not what we want, we don't want... [[But that's what you're doing.]] ...easement, and you're trying to do it. [[Who's trying to do this? Are we trying to do this?]] If you're able to listen and hear, I'm sure you've heard my answer to these three things. Of course, now there are agreements, we will accept all factual and proper comments. Please be sure that we are still at the stage of the discussion, at the stage of correcting, clarifying certain things, but we want to be clear, and I have the impression that it is clear that inclusive education is not isolation. Let us not isolate children with disabilities from classes and peer groups, let us do everything to ensure that any stimulus that can affect the child's good development is used. Science in the case of a disabled student, once again, takes place on the basis of an individual educational and therapeutic programme and it takes place in these two segments. Unfortunately, you continue to confuse individual teaching with individualisation of education, here I suggest reading and accepting some arguments. What I'm trying to say is that I have a lot of optimistic news, and I'm very happy about that. There are really more and more schools well prepared for inclusive education. There are more and more such schools, more and more teachers. I am sure that this process of integrating children with disabilities into the school, into the groups will run properly and will result in success primarily for students. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Disabled. We must all really start with each other and teach each other this: not exclude, isolate, stigmatize, set a good example for students who are to learn from us, not be ashamed of some of our statements. So let's start by turning each other on and on, listening and hearing. And believe that we have the courage and determination to include teaching, good for children, enter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You're gonna change the regulation?]] Thank you very much. Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: And I'm gonna say that we're gonna answer all the specific questions. [[You didn't answer any questions.]] Thank you very much, Minister. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 41st meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I consider the list of Members who have been made to the statements... and, Mr Kurzepa, I apologise, so I ask you to include and close the list. Mr Giżyński will be the first to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u404	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The creator and supervisor of the shadow cabinet Grzegorz Schetyna presented in the Seym on 7 April 2017 on behalf of the Civic Platform the idea for Poland constructed from trivially used demoliberal schemes, calculators and templates. The Demoliberalism of Schetin and the Polish Army tasked against Poland brings its sources from a combination of two words: liberalism and demolition. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u405	Thank you, sir. And I ask you to make a statement to Mrs Bożena Kaminska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u406	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's statement I would like to devote to a very serious matter that affected the Suwałki community, namely the absence of uniform services during the celebration of national holidays in Suwałki - the celebration of the Constitution Day of May 3 and the National Victory Day on May 8th. 3 May has been a national holiday in Poland since 1919. In the Polish People's Republic the celebration of that day was forbidden, the public celebrations returned only in 1990. On that day, the anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution of 3 May of the Republic of both Nations is celebrated. The document was the first constitution in modern Europe, but the second after American in the world. On the official celebrations of the 226th anniversary of the Constitution on 3 May in Suwałki there were no postcards and representation companies of state uniformed services such as the military, the police or the State Fire Department. This is the first such case in Suwałki after 1990. At the celebration on behalf of Minister Jarosław Zieliński, his representative Mr Leszek Dec informed that Minister Zieliński was at the ceremony in Łomża. He is a Member of the Podlaskie Voivodeship, who is subject to uniformed services, hence their presence where there is a minister who is responsible for them. But after all, the State Fire and Police are also in Łomża. It was not necessary to remove these services from Suwałk or to prohibit them from attending public celebrations. On 8 May, during the 72nd anniversary of the end of World War II, there was also a lack of representation of state uniform services: troops, police, State Fire Department. Nearly half an hour earlier, there was a competitive event in which uniformed services participated in the assembly square in Suwałki's military unit. And they read to themselves the appeal of the fallen, without the participation of the inhabitants, who, behind the fence half an hour later, celebrated this feast with the combatants, youth and scouts. The Polish State appoints the State Police to life, equips it with a number of powers and privileges, enabling it to carry out its tasks and duties. One of the responsibilities is to participate in national holidays, such as the celebrations of the Constitution on 3 May. In addition, in Chapter 7 of the Police Act, art. 63 says that the police are not political, a policeman cannot be a member of a political party, and it is used, unfortunately, politically, as we are now observing. In my opinion, decisions on the absence of state services during the most important celebrations are certainly only political. Does the ruling party want to impose its narrative and take advantage of history? With this question I ask the Minister, who is personally responsible for uniformed services: Who is responsible for the failure of uniformed services during the celebration of state holidays in Suwałki? I am directing this question to the Minister of National Defence, Mr Antoni Macierewicz, but also to the Minister of Interior of Mr Mariusz Błaszczak. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u407	Thank you, Member. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u408	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement concerns the budget of the Silesian Seymour. I took an interest in the last four approved budgets of the Śląskie Voivodship: for 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017. I was concerned about the constant borrowing. In a normal home, reasonable parents do not take credit if they do not have a guarantee that they can be repaid; then they can be borrowed. From my reading of the budgets adopted by the Councillors of the Sejm of the Silesian Voivodeship, there is a disturbing picture of people ruling the second largest region who are irresponsible. They're taking loans, totally not worrying about who's gonna pay them back and when. I would like to request a check of the functioning of the local government in the Silesian Voivodeship, because it leads the region to the edge of the abyss, and its entrusted people, taxpayers, can be blown up into space any moment. From the analysis of the summary, rather cursory, recorded from official reports on www.slaskie.pl pages, a picture of the Silesian Stadium covered with silver and the Silesian Museum with gold handles emerges. I don't think something's working the way it's supposed to. That's why I have a few questions. What banks are so eager to lend? What are the conditions for repayment and other agreements guaranteeing the region's financial security? When are we going to find out that the region is going to be bid on? Are you sure that the region has only two huge problems, almost to the measure of the apocalypse, and it is necessary to borrow forever the stadium and the Silesian Museum, which are held at the expense of other facilities, units and tasks in the region? Especially since the streets of Katowice are surrounded by anecdotes, as in the Silesian Museum new furniture is exchanged for even newer ones, and each exhibition receives additional very rich grants outside the designated budget, at the expense of other facilities in the region. The Sejmik of the Silesian Voivodeship is apparently the richest in the country, and no one in the country can stop the rich from spreading public pennies with a light hand, right? There is another observation. Perhaps these people want to change their citizenship and taxpayers and owe us on purpose? I would very much like to know the answers to the questions asked. Questions about Silesia are also questions about other regions. There are probably more willing to buy borrowed money in Poland. I am calling for control and demand control of the expenditure of our local authorities, which today is in contrast to the democratically elected authority in the 2015 parliamentary elections. Apparently, local governments, mostly still in the hands of the PO, are working to drown the country. I believe that in the current good change for Poland, it is necessary to carry out reforms of local governments and electoral ordination, because pathologies, which have developed in sick systems over the last 10 years, have plunged us, Poles, into a huge debt that will come to our taxpayers in the future to pay back. I want to remind you of the story we know: eat, drink, and let go of the belt. And now I have this paraphrase: Grześ goes through the Seym, a sack of promises carries, and through a hole of lies they fall behind Grzesie. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u409	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u410	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Tresna reservoir, the Lake Żywieckie, is used for tourist purposes, for electricity production, for flood protection and for regulating the tributaries of the upper Vistula. Lake Żywieckie was created 50 years ago. As the years passed, it began to grow and decrease its capacity. At present, its retention function is significantly reduced and the recreational and touristic lake has in fact ceased to be attractive. The only solution is to purify and demolish it, which is the task of the regional water management board. In response to my interpellation, the Minister informed that a feasibility study for the task of demolishing the Tresna water reservoir, or Lake Żywiecki, was developed as part of the flood protection programme in the upper Vistula basin. It includes the development of approx. 2 million m3 of recess with the back part of the tank, which is most important for restoring its flood retention. The next response to my interpellation shows that there is no provision for this task in the state budget's special reserves. It is therefore not possible to ensure the implementation of the project within the time limit resulting from the feasibility study. In view of this information, during the procedure of the Budget Act last year and the current year, I have tabled an amendment to make sure that the government allocates the right money for this task. It hasn't been taken into account. The situation is therefore curial: by commissioning the preparation of documentation for the project, the need to allocate a certain amount from the State budget for its implementation is not noted. Although there are ongoing procedures for issuing environmental decisions for this task, there is still no money for its execution. It is therefore so important to guarantee funding as soon as possible in order to clear the lake and restore its function. The implementation of the task is an urgent and priority issue, it will promote the development and security of the region that I represent. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u411	Thank you, Member. And Mr Robert Winnicki, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u412	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After taking power by the Law and Justice many Poles hoped that there would be no place in Polish education for, you can say, anti-Polish historical policy or lack of historical truth. Unfortunately, during the last SAT exam, with an extended P.O.S. degree, there was such a scandal, the task of such a biased question. This is the degree where the question about the action of the Vistula was asked. The action of the Vistula, reminds us, was an action that ended Bander genocide, Bander ethnic cleansing, persecution of the Polish population of the South-East Kresów, which started in 1939 and ended with the action of the Vistula in 1947. Of course, it was an action carried out by the communist authorities, by the then power which reigned in the territory of the Republic of Poland, but it must be clearly stated that any other Polish government, including the government of the sovereign Republic, would have to carry out an action of a similar nature in order to protect the Polish population from further genocide. Meanwhile, this year, there was an extended M.O.A. degree. question illustrated with a picture. It was necessary to answer the ethnic minority - we will say two more words about it - and it was about the action of the Vistula, and what rights and freedoms of man were violated during the action of the Vistula. In this regard, today I have asked the Minister of National Education on this matter, demanding an explanation of who is responsible for such questions, not other questions, personally, who has approved such questions, not other questions, personally, who has appointed people who put such questions rather than other questions. I would also like to ask you to clarify whether MEN asked for an opinion on this matter from historians who are investigating the Bander genocide in Poles from 1939 to 1947. I also ask whether MEN is aware that condemning the actions of the Vistula, which had already taken place in the 1990s and 2000s in Poland, also unfortunately in this House, is a support for the historical policy that glorifys the criminal, genocide formation of the OUN-UPA. I am also asking whether the Ministry of National Education intends to educate students in the programs of history teaching and knowledge about society - because let us remind you that it was the Matura from WOS - in primary schools, in secondary schools, in school textbooks about such facts as the genocide carried out on the inhabitants of the South-East Kresów and Małopolska by the OUN-UPA, about the fact that it was the action of the Vistula which interrupted the genocide of the OUN-UPA, finally whether it intends to educate in WOS about the progressing heroization and building of the state cult of criminal formations in Ukraine today. I would also like to stress that the action of the Vistula was not only a necessity, it was a legitimate step and found its legal basis not only in the actions of the Government of the Polish People's Republic. Such legal bases were also in the pre-war Polish legislation, for example in the Act of 30 March 1939. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The 1st speech is, inter alia, that in cases where the interest of the State's defence is required by a resolution established by the Council of Ministers, the state authorities may order the withdrawal of the population from threatened areas of the State. Of course, withdrawal is euphemism, it's about resettlement. The actions taken by the authorities in post-war Europe were very often of such a nature. After all, we are talking about the displacement of Germans from the western parts of Poland as a result of the Potsdam conference. Will this also be condemned? Is there such an aberration that we will also condemn this necessary action? We are talking about Beneš' decrees in Czechoslovakia. We are talking about what was happening in Greece when, as part of the liquidation of the communist guerrilla, the population of its base was also displaced. The condemnation of the shares of the Vistula is an aberration. I have the impression that some people hate communes more than they love Poland and support the Polish national interest. It's definitely got to stop.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u413	Please take the floor of Mr Jack Kurzepa. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u414	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, I was a little moved into this podium because I wanted to share my experience with you three days ago. On 8 May here, in the Seym, in the column room, i.e. in the second prestige of the Polish Parliament hall, for the first time since the end of the war Polish children of war gathered from all over Poland, but also from outside its borders. Polish children of war - this is a message to those of the country who are not fully aware of who I am talking about - these are Poles and Poles who, at the end of World War II, were not over 18 years old, whose biography is thus marked by the darkness of the occupation night, the tragedy of those times, the stay in concentration camps, the stays on robots in Germany, the expulsion from their homes, the orphanage of their loved ones. It is about children whose nights, also later, after the end of the war, were interrupted by crying, rising at night and seeking safe shelter, because it was difficult to forget the experiences they had experienced during the occupation. Polish children of war waited for seventy-seven years to be able to remember themselves here, in the Polish parliament, to say about this Gehenna, to be happy that so many are still there. The children of war shared their problems, their worries. At the same time, despite this experience, despite all that is still in their memory, they are characterized by incredible optimism. With the growing weakening of the body, with the growing health problems that are a prognosis of childhood, they have not enough confidence in themselves, the joy of this Poland, in which they came to live today. I would like to thank Marshal Sejm, as well as Prime Minister Beata Szydło, President Jarosław Kaczyński and Minister of Health, who sent us letters. The first congress of war children's environments, represented here by so many old people, old women and old men, took a few resolutions. They are not a claim, they are only a question and a request to the Polish Parliament, whether it would be worth... In the first resolution they ask for the inclusion of a record of Polish children of war in the law on combatants and repressed persons. The second resolution refers to the request addressed to the Polish parliament to establish on 8 May the celebration of Polish children of war, which is made with the hope that the central celebrations will take place in Łódź and will take place there in the place of the execution and death of children, in the concentration camp of the Second World War. Resolution No 3 is linked to the hope and request of both the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Culture and the public media, the IPN, research institutes, for children of war to have a prominent place in curricula, research programmes as well as educational programmes in public media. The fourth resolution is an invitation, a request to enter into talks of a financial nature concerning the needs of this environment. One of the most beautiful accents of this meeting was the appeal of peace, which participants, Polish children of war on 8 May, sent from the column hall of the Polish Sejm to the whole world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-11-sejm-41-2.u415	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. (now Lubelskie Voivodship). (POW) Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 41st session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 42nd session of the Sejm, appointed on 24 and 25 and 26 May 2017, will be delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. The sitting is adjourned and I wish you all a pleasant rest. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 19 min 02]]
