ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u1	I'm reopening the session. I ask the secretaries to take their seats at the president's table. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I propose that now the Senate proceed with the examination of the 21st paragraph, that is, information from the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2016. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We therefore proceed with the examination of item twenty of the first agenda: information from the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2016. I would like to welcome the President of the National Judicial Council, Mr Dariusz Zawistowski, present at the Senate meeting. [[Applause]] Welcome very cordially and please take the floor... Oh, no, I'm sorry, just a minute. The text of the information is contained in print No 524. The Senate Marshal sent the information received to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The Commission took note of the information submitted at its meeting on 11 July 2017 and informed the Senate Marshal. I ask the president, Mr Dariusz Zawistowski, to take the floor and present the information. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u2	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to start by pointing out that a written report has been drawn up as usual from the activities of the National Judicial Council. It is quite extensive and actually covers all aspects of the operation of the National Judicial Council. In my speech in this connection, I would like to focus on issues that seem essential and to remind you that in 2016. The National Judicial Council acted on the same basis as in previous years and, practically, in the same composition, because the term of office of one of the judges ended, but it was the first term of office and he was elected to the National Judicial Council by the assembly of regional and district judges for the second term. According to the government's idea, the National Judicial Council, as we all know, does not consist of judges themselves, but also parliamentarians, representatives of the President and certain people who are not elected to the council, but sit on the board because of their duties. So here we have some idea from the legislator that the representation of individual authorities in the National Courts Council is also intended to create a level of cooperation between these authorities. As regards the Senate's representatives at the National Judicial Council, there are two of them, and I would like to express my full conviction here that the senators who have been elected to the National Judicial Council fully participate in the work of the Council. We try to reconcile responsibilities in the National Judicial Council with responsibilities, in the case of parliamentarians, in the parliament, and in the case of judges With responsibilities in the courts, because when we solve our system, judges are not exempt from judgment, so this is an additional occupation. This is a difficulty with regard to the way the Council works, and in principle we take the assumption that the National Judicial Council is meeting at a single meeting within one month. These meetings shall be set up in advance so that an action plan can possibly be drawn up so that the meetings of the Council can be attended. In 2016, such plenary meetings of the Councils were 20 and they took a total of 58 days. As regards the subject matter of the Council's activities, it comes first from the Constitution, which provides that the National Council of Courts is an authority to uphold the independence of courts and the independence of judges, and it is known that certain details of the powers and responsibilities of the Board are contained in the Act on the National Council of Courts. The main role of the National Judicial Council is to identify candidates for judicial positions. The National Judicial Council attaches particular importance to this issue because of two points of view. Because it's both about choosing the best candidate for a free judge position, and it's also important to remember that the choice of judges This is one of the guarantees of the independence of the judiciary. Thus, such system solutions were introduced, that in the National Council of the Court of Justice judges are the majority, and ultimately the decision to appoint a judge is taken by the President of the Republic of Poland. The proceedings that take place before the National Judicial Council in connection with the casting of vacant judicial positions are of a competitive nature because of the fact that any vacant judicial position is declared public The Minister should do so as soon as this post has been released. and all persons who comply with the statutory requirements may take part in such competition proceedings. According to the data submitted to the Senate and earlier to the Sejm, there are an average of about 4 candidates for one vacant post in such competition proceedings. Of course, this is a matter of statistics, so there are procedures where there are fewer candidates, but also those where there are more candidates. This is a two-step procedure. First, an evaluation of the applications shall be carried out at the level of the courts to which the persons concerned apply. I say this in a very simple way, because it also depends on the level of the court to which the candidate takes part. After evaluation of the preliminary assembly of representatives of the colleges of courts, the National Judicial Council, which is based on the appointment of teams consisting of 3 and 5 persons, shall submit these applications. They shall pre-opinion this candidacy and then the team representatives shall submit this candidacy in plenary and each candidacy shall be voted separately. In 2016, nearly 500 teams were established. As I was saying, there were 3 and 5 people. With regard to statistics on the submission of applications to the President for appointment as a judge, the number of persons who participated in the competitions and those who were presented to the President for appointment to a free judicial post can be significantly reduced compared to 2015. This is exactly 101 candidates less than in 2015. And the people who participated in the competitions were also less, but here I would like to explain how this difference came about. Here, as if the amended laws had already fully worked, which allowed the competition to take part in this free judicial position only when the candidate who had previously applied for another such competition had completed this trial. Therefore, we do not currently have such a situation that one candidate takes part simultaneously in several competitions, which actually limited the number of these competitions, but the number of people did not fall so much. This is the result of these provisions. And, of course, it was also noticeable that these competition proceedings were much less than in previous years, so this smaller number of candidates presented to the President was not due to any delays in recognising these candidates. Their number is close to the level we recorded in previous years. This procedure at the stage of the National Judicial Council takes about 2 months, which is a very good result. This is a much better result than the one envisaged in the budget assumptions, and therefore there is actually no objection to proceedings at this stage, proceedings before the National Judicial Council. It stresses in the studies which concern these issues that this is due to a quite large number of meetings of the National Judicial Council, because in addition to those normally planned additional meetings were also planned, with the implementation of this ICT system, which supports competition proceedings, and also with the reduction of the number of candidates, because, as I said, it is now possible to compete in only one competition. And from this point of view, it is quite disturbing that there is a phenomenon. Well, relatively few competitions were announced for these dismissed judicial positions. According to the data we have, there are currently around 800 uninsured, vacant judicial posts, which is a fairly serious percentage of judicial posts, which is about 10 thousand in Poland. If we still consider that the Ministry of Justice is delegated over 100 judges, then we can say that approximately 10% Judgeships are currently unattended. To a large extent, this was probably due to the expectation of the appointment of court assistants to the courts of first instance. These rules have become effective, and therefore as regards the recruitment of local courts, this can be explained in this way. On the other hand, with regard to district courts and appeals, it is a total of about 400 posts, so it is difficult to say why these competitions were not announced at the moment. As regards further important issues relating to the functioning of the National Judicial Council, it should be stressed that the statutory powers and responsibilities of the National Judicial Council include the opinion of legal acts which concern the functioning of the courts. I'm gonna refer to the data here. They show that the National Judicial Council has given an opinion on a number of acts of statutory rank, including those which also concern essential acts such as codes. As far as practice is concerned, the National Judicial Council is analysing the legal acts to be assessed... Well, you could say he's doing it by his own strength, because the composition of the National Judicial Council includes judges from different courts. This is apparent from the Constitution. We have representatives of military and administrative courts, common courts of various levels and Supreme Courts, which generally allows us to evaluate these projects. In 2016, 127 draft laws and more than 81 regulations, which constituted implementing acts for these laws, were jointly assessed. In this number there were 30 draft amendments to the codes, i.e. legal acts essential to the functioning of the courts. The National Judicial Council is always trying to meet this deadline, which is foreseen, but I have a point on Parliament, from the point of view of better cooperation. It could be pointed out that, unfortunately, these deadlines for drawing up opinions are often too short. I stressed here that the National Judicial Council is a collegial body composed of 25 members, so the opinion of the legislative act means that a panel must first be set up, which will give a preliminary opinion and then present it in plenary. In order for this deadline to be respected, in some cases additional, unplanned meetings of the National Judicial Council have to be set up. However, it seems that it would be more sensible to lay down a little longer deadlines for drafting these opinions, particularly on the most important issues. I would also like to stress that there is such a trend that, among the competition proceedings that are pending before the National Judicial Council and which concern individual cases, the number of such proceedings which have been discussed with candidates is growing. Because the principle is actually that the basis for assessing candidates is the documents sent to the National Council of Courts, i.e. the opinions of the Visitors... the results of the proceedings are being examined when it comes to judges who stand for higher courts, the assessment of the assemblies of judges... Thus, in general, all of this is done on the basis of documents relating to candidates. But in 2016, almost 300 people were still invited to the National Council and had conversations with them either directly or via the ICT system. It always gives a slightly better picture of a given candidacy. It should also be stressed that the assessment of the National Judicial Council They fall in the form of resolutions, so it is always decided by a majority of votes They are not final because in individual proceedings candidates, i.e. above all those who are seeking a judge's position, always have the possibility to appeal to the Supreme Court. And the data indicates that a small part of the resolutions are being challenged. Let me remind you that in 2016 we assessed nearly 1 000 500 candidates and 29 resolutions were contested. So that the percentage of the challenge isn't big. Moreover, in the case of 26 resolutions, the Supreme Court dismissed these appeals. Thus, it can be said that about 3/4 of the resolutions which were issued by the National Courts Council have been maintained in appeal proceedings, which in general proves a rather appropriate assessment by the National Courts Council at this stage. On general issues, I would also like to emphasise the way in which the budget is implemented in 2016. From the data at our disposal and which have been presented, it appears that the budget has been implemented in 97%, and therefore practically according to assumptions. The implementation of the budget of the National Judicial Council was subject to scrutiny by the Supreme Audit Chamber and no significant objections were raised. So from this point of view there may be no significant doubts either. Such an issue, which can still be highlighted here and which was specific for 2016, is that the National Council of Courts organized the General Assembly of ENCJ, the European Network of Councils of Courts, hosted this meeting. And during these celebrations, among others. to meet the President with the judges representing the Councils from all over Europe, which, of course, has been appreciated and very well received. As regards issues which are relevant for the functioning of the National Judicial Council, these are also issues related to the ethics of judges. And here I would like to remind you that the National Judicial Council has developed a code of professional ethics for judges, which obliges judges to act properly not only in the service but also outside the service. And that is, of course, the issue of disciplinary proceedings. With regard to the number of disciplinary decisions which are taken in such a substantive form in relation to judges, i.e. in the form of judgments or convictions or acquittals, there are fewer than 50 such judgments per year in recent years. And all these judgments go to the National Judicial Council and are individually analysed. The National Judicial Council has the possibility to appeal against these disciplinary decisions. And we attach quite essential importance to these issues. The figures from the last few years show that by far more appeal, which the National Judicial Council makes, are appeals against the detriment of judges, so even in the environment it is perceived in such a way that the National Judicial Council is more stringent than disciplinary courts. But that's our role, because we're supposed to take care of the ethics of judges. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] I would also like to remind you that the disciplinary proceedings of judges are now similar to criminal proceedings, as the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure apply mutatis mutandis to matters not governed by the Law on the System of General Courts. The procedure is two-way, at first instance the formations of three judges of appeal courts, and the second instance is the Supreme Court. These formations shall be drawn from among the judges of the court concerned. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the rules laid down in the criminal procedure, such a guilty judge shall be treated approximately the same as the accused in the criminal proceedings. The proceedings are open to a hundred percent, so all interested persons, including the public, can take part in these proceedings. This concerns the proceedings before both the first and second instance. All decisions of the Supreme Court, which is a second instance court, are also available, shall be published in such annual collections. So it is possible to fully control this disciplinary case-law. We know that there will probably be a rather significant change in disciplinary justice at the moment, because there is a concept of setting up a separate Chamber, a Disciplinary Chamber. Except, in the case of second instance proceedings, it will actually be a technical issue, because that is what the disciplinary department in the Supreme Court is currently dealing with. As I have already said, all the judges of the Supreme Court who are drawn to these formations are currently taking part in disciplinary assemblies. If we assume that the project that Mr President has today, I understand, present, will be included, that there will now be a separate Chamber, a Disciplinary Chamber, and there will probably be judges there who will only deal with disciplinary matters. Except I can't say it with all the responsibility, because we don't know this project yet. As far as issues may be less important, but in practice also important, I will say that the National Courts Council also decides to transfer the judges to rest. Thus, in a situation in which the judge is not of the required age to retire and, above all, in the light of the state of health, he is unable to fulfil his judicial duties, the National Council of the Court of Justice decides whether or not he is to be retiring. These are again similar in size, about 30 applications per year. That doesn't change very much. Maybe so much as an introduction for the most important issues that are the subject of the National Judicial Council. If further explanations are needed, I am, of course, ready to give them to you as far as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since there aren't any marshals in the courtroom, I'm in charge of a minute's break... Okay? I'll be right back. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 23 to 11 minutes 27]] I'm reopening the session. Oh, you're the president. Mr. President, I'd like you to meet me here at the podium. First, because you're not a marshal. You ask Senator Sławomir Rybicki a question. Let me remind you that the questions should last up to a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr President, thank you, of course, for the report that concerns the Council's activities in the difficult way to defend the independence of the judges and the independence of the courts during the period. It has to be emphasized. And the question is the following. You mentioned in your report that about 800 vacancies were waiting for judges to fill them. In this respect, the National Judicial Council has an important role to play in this area. The National Council shall be composed of the Minister of Justice. I would like to ask the president why these vacancies are not filled. And does the Minister of Justice speak at the Council meeting on this matter? And if so, how does he explain these vacancies? And how active is he at the meetings of the National Council, how he engages in its activities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u5	Thank you very much. Do you have a question for the marshal? [[Yes.]] You're welcome. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, then Mr. Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr President, how do you assess the proposals for amendments to the KRS Act presented by the President? It goes beyond... [[Mr. Marshal...]] ...the reporting period, however, is at the moment a matter so important to the fate of the National Courts that I would like to ask such a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u7	Mr Marshal, but you presented the 2016 report. I'm asking you to stick to the subject. 2016 It is a report for this period. [[But the President may answer or not answer.]] [[Chairman of the National Judicial Council Dariusz Zawistowski: It is your Marshal who decides whether or not to answer.]] I'm asking you to ask questions... [[I asked the question.]] I would ask that the questions concern 2016 rather than current cases. You're welcome, Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u8	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have two questions for the president. Firstly, we, through our representatives in the National Council of Courts, i.e. senators, as well as Members, are aware of the functioning of the National Courts Council. And I have to admit that the KRS functioned modelly at least at the time I was a Member and then at the time I was a Senator. What has changed in the last year's view of the KRS as being hunted like this? What happened in spite of good grades, including abroad, here in the country began the shooting of the National Judicial Council? That's my first question. Secondly, you gave very important data here, and math, as you know, is not lying, math is one of the 1,500 candidates who were consulted by the National Court of Justice, of which there were 29 appeals, 26 not recognized by the Supreme Court. Are these data known to the public? And if they are not known to the public 'Cause it's the first time I've heard about them, and I've been following these cases. Then why aren't you talking about it? What was the reason that in this hunt for the KRS, which is organized by the governing camp, these data are not transmitted to the public? This is completely incomprehensible to me. Maybe the judge has an explanation for not giving such fundamental information. Third question, by the way, because I haven't been interrupted yet. How does the European Association of Judicial Councils at its meeting assess the functioning of the National Courts? Unless you're just not judging each other... If you don't judge each other, how do you see the functioning of the KRS against the other organs of this association? Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u9	Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u10	With regard to the question of the cast of vacant posts, I can even make these points concrete. Recently, a notice from the Minister of Justice indicated that he was going to announce competitions concerning: the appeals courts of 55 posts, the district courts of 250 posts and the regional courts Only 22 seats. As I said, it was probably related to the fact that it was assumed that the seats in the regional courts would be filled by the assesors, but that there was a fundamental change here, because there was an amendment of the bill and that the Minister of Justice now appoints assesors. According to the previous wording of the Act, the President was to do so in the same manner as the referees are called, so here it has fundamentally changed in terms of the system. I'm guessing. Because, of course, I do not have such information, no one made public why they were waiting for these posts, but it seems logical that in the case of district courts it was about filling these posts assesors. Why haven't there been any competitions in the district courts and appeals courts? I can't answer that question because no one explained it. I can only say that it is so incomprehensible that if there are seats available, there are uninsured places, it is known that this does not promote the efficiency of the proceedings, because it is hard to assume that fewer judges He can handle cases better than judges with full staff. With regard to the assessment of the resolutions that the National Courts Council takes, and the small number of actions, as I have already said, this is probably the result of the fact that in general the participants of the competitions do not question in most cases the assessment carried out by the National Courts Council. It can be said that this is verifiable because the law indicates the criteria to be taken into account when deciding the competition and pointing a person to the President as a free judge. The appeal proceedings pending before the Supreme Court shall have the task of examining whether the procedure for appointing or designating a candidate for a vacant post was lawful. As I said, the Supreme Court generally shared this assessment, which was carried out by the National Judicial Council. As far as the problem of cooperation with the National Judicial Council is concerned, I would like to stress here that there is no general assumption that this is the same for both parliamentarians and the Minister of Justice. I tried to stress that parliamentarians are taking part in meetings of the National Judicial Council, and if, for example, shall be appointed to the teams, and shall attend the meetings of those teams. Of course, there are situations where, for random reasons... For example, it happens that the Senate or the Sejm meeting coincides with the meeting of the National Judicial Council, so they do not attend meetings of the Council all the time, but here I have not seen any bad will and lack of cooperation with parliamentarians. The problem is, however, cooperation with the Minister of Justice, who, as a member of the National Judicial Council, de facto does not participate in the work of the National Judicial Council. I don't want to lie, but I think he was at the National Courts Council twice in 2015, and he wasn't there once in 2016. So here it could be said that this cooperation is certainly not a model, unfortunately it is contrary to this assumption, which I mentioned at the beginning. As far as the relations between the Council and the Ministry of Justice are concerned, here is an additional problem such that the Ministry of Justice does not inform the National Judicial Council of its intentions regarding the functioning of the judiciary. All the legal acts that concern the functioning of the courts, we have learned either from the media, or when. These projects were presented to us for an opinion. It seems to me that this is an inappropriate practice, because if this cooperation were to look good As it is practiced in other countries This principle should be that it is presented e.g. assumptions for projects to evaluate the National Judicial Council so that a position can already be taken at this stage. We had, for example. to deal with the situation that the Act on the National Judicial Council has been notified to us in such a way that we have learned from the Internet that such a project has been sent to the Sejm. At that time, we had a delegation from the Dutch judicial council and these judges were simply unable to believe that this could be the way the judicial council was treated. To them it was, you could say, a big shock. But that's what it looks like. When the Minister of Justice was elected and was in the Council at first, he declared something completely different. He said that all the projects that will concern justice would be presented first to the National Judicial Council. And I think that's the way it's supposed to be. With regard to how the work of the National Judicial Council is assessed from the point of view of some reference to other judicial councils in Europe, it would be difficult to take a position in general here, because the way in which judicial councils operate in individual countries is very different, there is no single model. The basic assumption that functions everywhere is that if such an independent body functions at all The Council of Europe's recommendations for such bodies to function in all countries, that is to say, they are taking care of the independence of the judiciary... This model assumption is that this body should be as independent as possible of political power and that judges in these bodies should be the majority. That is the assumption, and the individual countries resolve it in different ways. Here I was talking about the example of the Netherlands. They have a completely different model. The judges who are posted to the council do not rule, so their basic occupation is to participate in the work of the council. Besides, the council there is much less numerous than ours. It seems that from a practical point of view, from the point of view of pragmatism, this is a better solution than ours, because it can work smoothly. Is that possible under our terms? Well, it would be theoretically possible if we changed the constitution, because the way the council works and its composition are largely defined in the Constitution. This could be considered, but it would require a revision of the basic law. In any case, in many countries, especially Central and Eastern Europe, there has been a recent tendency to strengthen the competences of the national judicial council It is granted additional possibilities e.g. compared to the ones that have our advice. They concern e.g. having the budget of the judiciary, so as to make the judiciary independent of the executive authority in terms of the use of funds. In many countries, Parliament's representatives, politicians, for example, are also resigned from their participation in the Council. NGOs, the world of science, universities, etc. free legal professions, such as lawyers. So different model solutions are at stake. We also had contacts with judges from the Ukrainian judicial council. With regard to the election of judges to the council, they have gone in the same direction that is currently in force with us, that is, in the direction of the selection of judges to the council by the judges. When they paid us a visit, this project appeared, which assumes that we will have judges elected by parliament. That would be the opposite of what they gave up before. It can generally be said that if such a model were to be implemented, it would actually be a step backwards in terms of such a general idea of protecting the independence of the judiciary. As regards the assessment of the activities of the National Judicial Council by our colleagues, there are no reservations here. We've been seen as an organ that deserves... worth working with. We have had many visits from international representatives of the judicial councils. One of our colleagues was on the executive board of the NCJ, which was certainly an expression of appreciation for the role of the National Judicial Council. I would like to remind you that we already have a version of the draft law amending the National Judicial Council. The European Judicial Councils, when assessing the draft amendments, believed that they would limit the independence of the judiciary if they were introduced. There's a problem... [[Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry to interrupt...]] ...is seen here.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u11	I ask you to answer questions about the subject, the point we are considering, and to ignore questions that go beyond this matter. [[Chairman of the National Judicial Council Dariusz Zawistowski: I understand.]] Thank you so much for your answer. We're starting round three more questions. First, Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u12	Mr. Marshal, I do not agree with your position because our deliberations are very important, they are broadcast and they are very interested... [[I didn't say they weren't important, Senator. They're very important.]] You didn't say that, but... But I don't represent here... I represent citizens and I need to ask some questions to explain to citizens what is really going on. However, I will stick to the content of the report so as not to exceed certain limits which have been wrongly imposed on us in my view. Mr President, Judge, the Council is composed of representatives of the judiciary, of course, but also representatives of Parliament. I took the liberty of looking at the board's composition and I see that here is the situation that there are five representatives of the ruling party, including Minister Ziobro, who belongs here... and there is one person from the so-called opposition. Tell me, has there been such a division in the history of the National Judicial Council? As I understand it, the National Council is composed of representatives of Parliament. I think that's the way... [[Mr. Senator, it's been a minute.]] Yes? I'm done. Can we avoid accusing politicians of affecting the actions of the National Council? In the next minute, I'll be asking more questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u13	Thank you very much. Senator Slugocki. I'll remind you, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u14	I'm turning on the stopwatch. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have questions about the report. In a way, my club friend, Senator Rybicki, asked. You spoke in your report, Mr President, about the absence of judges, which probably concerns not only us, here today, but also the public opinion. It's like you said, 800 unattended jobs. If you add those 100 judges seconded to the Ministry of Justice, that's about 900. That's 10%. the number of judges' posts in Poland in general. My question is, Mr President: are these problems 'Cause these are real problems... You said they weren't based on the attitude of the National Judicial Council. But are the new regulations that the parliamentary majority is giving us? We, I mean, citizens, because on behalf of citizens... [[Senator, we're not talking about new regulations, we're talking about the 2016 report.]] But... Wasn't Mr. Marshal polite to listen to the first part of my question? [[I heard.]] Well, please note that I am asking whether these problems arising in 2016 will be dealt with in some way, resolved, resolved by new regulations. [[We're not talking, Mr. Senator, about projects that haven't even entered the Sejm yet.]] This, Mr. Chairman... [[Besides, it's been a minute.]] Good. How should the legislator eliminate these problems...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u15	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska. [[...that you were talking about? Thank you very much.]] [[On a formal matter, Mr. Marshal.]] I'm listening, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u16	Mr Marshal, it is absolutely unacceptable to limit the scope of questions in the situation in which the National Judicial Council is present. When I was a marshal, the PiS state could ask questions that went beyond time and beyond. What you're doing right now is restricting the discussion of the new situation in the National Judicial Council. If you think that we should discuss this next year when there is a new report, I would like to draw attention to the complete logic of such a position.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u17	Mr. Marshal, with all due respect, first of all, your vote was not on a formal issue, it was not a formal proposal, second, if you want to discuss projects that have not yet entered the Sejm, it will be an opportunity when they are in the Senate, and thirdly, I follow the Rules of Procedure. You're welcome, Senator... [[I'm gonna discuss this, I'm gonna take the floor, I'm not gonna let myself take the floor.]] Well, you're welcome, sir. You have every right to do that. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u18	Thank you. Mr Marshal, Mr President, I would also like to protest against instructing the senators, but above all against instructing the President to answer and not answer the questions. [[Senator, I'm not lecturing anybody. I just want us to follow the rules. Look at the rules.]] And I ask the marshal to take our opinion into account. [[40 seconds to go.]] Yes, sir. Mr. Marshal, really... [[There's a minute to ask a question. 40 seconds to go.]] But I had to say it. [[There you go. 30 seconds to go.]] If you don't give me the time, I'll volunteer again and again. [[Okay, here you go.]] Mr President, I would like you to tell us more about this system, which is at the moment about the retirement of judges. How does it go, and how does it look? You mentioned it, but I'd ask you to zoom in, especially since changes are planned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u19	Thank you very much. Please answer me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u20	As for the question of political division in the Council, I will say that it is customary in some way to reflect the political arrangement in Parliament. Now we have a situation where two senators represent the ruling majority. The messengers are four. Two of them are representatives of the PiS. There is also a representative of the PO, Mr. Budka, and Mr. Romekowski elected by Kukiz15. That's what it looks like in practice. The Parliamentarians of the option which currently has a majority in Parliament are also the majority when it comes to the participation of parliamentarians in the Council. As for the problem of unpaid jobs and the question of what's some kind of remedy for this problem... It is really about complying with the rules, because the regulation is Once again, I would like to stress that. That information about vacant posts should be published immediately. The regulation in this regard is, but the National Council of the Court of Justice has no influence on whether such announcements appear or not. As I said, our role is limited to actions at this stage where we are already receiving documents with nominations that we should assess. Among the candidates submitted to us, we should choose who we will point out to the President as those who, in our view, should be appointed as judges. I have tried to signal here that the problem is essentially about this stage, which is before the meeting of the National Judicial Council. I will add that there is no progress here in 2017, and I suspect that this problem will also arise in the 2018 report. With regard to the retirement of judges, there are several possibilities here. As regards the basic issue, i.e. At the age at which judges retire, we have recently had a major change here, because there is a regulation that provides that women's judges will retire at the age of 60 and men at the age of 65. This is generally a reduction in the age of retirement. It is worth noting here that this is not the same as the regulation in the general pension system, because in the general pension system at this age you can retire, and here is the obligation to retire. So this is a completely different situation. Of course, there is a mechanism that you can apply for and obtain an extension of the possibility of serving as a judge, but that is decided by the Minister of Justice, which, from a constitutional point of view, is very debatable. Should a representative of the executive authority decide whether or not someone can continue to serve as a judge? There is another additional problem that is difficult to identify as far as the scale of the phenomenon is concerned. In my opinion, this new regulation and the one that's about to end... I'm gonna talk about this right now. There's probably gonna be a lot more free judges in a few minutes. Until the end of 2017, there is a provision that provides that, if you have a required traineeship in the judiciary, you can go to rest without fulfilling the age criterion. I don't know how many people are gonna take that step by the end of the year. It's only until the end of the year. The border date may result in a relatively large number of judges deciding on such a step. They will be chiefly judges of the district courts and appeals, those with the greatest experience. It will be a great loss for the judiciary. I think this problem is kind of unnoticed by the Ministry of Justice. I have not seen steps being taken to encourage these judges to stay in the service for longer, and I expect that if there is such an atmosphere around the judiciary so far, it will not encourage those judges who have these powers to remain in the service. And there's another problem that's gonna be going on in a minute. This is already the current issue of the Supreme Court, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u21	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Senator Rulewski, I would like to remind you what the Senate Rules say about those issues that we discussed earlier with Marshal Borusewicz. Mr. Marshal knows the rules very well. Art. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 says: Senators may also submit from a place of no more than 1 minute a question relating to this item on the agenda to the persons mentioned in the article present at the meeting. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 in matters governed by their offices or institutions. With the consent of the senator, the reply may be given immediately in writing. And lips. 7: The Senate Marshal may draw the attention of a senator who deviates from the subject matter in his speech by calling on the senator to do so. After twice recalling the senator, the Marshal may receive the speaker's voice. Now the situation is that, in addition to this item, we have 10 others to consider, and at the request of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, the deliberations will only last until 4 p.m. today. At your request there will be a break from 4:00 p.m. For this reason, I will respect the Senate's Rules of Procedure very precisely and I ask everyone to adapt to it as well. [[Applause]] Senator Rulewski, please. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u22	Thank you. Mr. Marshal, I'm filing a formal motion for a 10-minute break due to a mood swing. Here we have just heard the applause, but earlier there were reservations about your proceedings and I find myself in a very bad situation. I'm afraid to ask you a question, so I'm asking you to vote immediately for a 10-minute recess... [[...to make you feel better.]] ...for mental hygiene.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u23	Mr. Senator, I'm very sorry you're having emotional problems. Perhaps if you leave the room... [[I don't have any problems.]] Perhaps if you leave the room and cool down a little bit, they'll pass. [[I can't leave because I want to ask questions.]] If you want to vote on this request for a break, you're welcome. Who's in favor of the motion... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Here's your card, Mr. Marshal. [[Maybe my vote will be decisive.]] ...Mr. Senator Rulewski for a 10-minute break? [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm calling a vote. Who's in favour of Senator Rulewski's request for a 10-minute break? [[Voices from the O.R.: It's not working!]] We're waiting for you to turn it on. [[Voices from the O.R.:]] [[Voice from the room: It worked.]] Who's against Senator Rulewski's motion? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 22 senators voted. There was no quorum. If this quorum appears, we will vote again on this proposal. As long as the senator keeps him up. You're welcome, Senator. I'd like to ask you a question. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm so sorry...]] You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u24	I'm on a formal issue. However, read these results regardless of whether the quorum was or was not.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u25	Good. 13 senators voted against... I'm talking from memory. [[Voice from the room: On 22 against was 9.]] 22 voted. [[There was a 9 against it.]] Against There were 9 Senators, 13 A's. Yes? A total of 22 senators voted. [[Voting No 21]] [[Then you can enjoy it.]] You're welcome, Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u26	Mr President, during the reporting period to the National Judicial Council or at the meetings of the National Judicial Council, were any comments made on the part that, so to speak, the winning electoral module understood as Members, Senators and Ministers? Have any suggestions been made? Were these cases settled under the Rules of Procedure of the National Judicial Council? Second question: were there already proposals for amendments to the laws governing the National Judicial Council? Third: do you consider from the position of Chairman of the National Judicial Council, of course, on the basis of an analysis of the past period until 2016, that the situation requires radical changes in the functioning of the judiciary?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u27	Thank you very much. Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u28	Thank you. Mr President, I shall yet return to those vacant posts and judicial posts which are carried out through work in the Ministry of Justice. We all know that the Law and Justice were going to elections with a call to speed up court proceedings. We know that the government, by motivating the implementation of draft laws to radically reform the justice system, particularly the Supreme Court and the National Judicial Council, refers to the need to reform the courts in order to speed up proceedings and improve them. Is this 1/10 out of 10,000 jobs that aren't filled? Is it because of the fault or because of the reasons on the part of the Ministry of Justice that it would have an impact on the speeding up of proceedings, on the better work of courts, especially regional and district courts? If this 1,000 people worked in the judiciary and ruled, could we be talking about a radical or serious increase in the number of cases under consideration?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u29	Thank you very much. Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u30	Mr President, I would like to address Judge Zawistowski. Please explain, because the case is serious, observed, and especially since there are also young people in the room, I would like us to get more information... Because I did not notice in the Rules of Procedure how the Chairman of the National Judicial Council is elected. It is usually led by prominent judges and lawyers. We know how to choose other members, but... could you answer that question? The second concerns your point of view. But this is related to the report. In my view, judges all over the world are citizens of impeccable opinion, and most of the time they do their job... [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm just gonna ask you a question. What does it look like when it comes to the retirement age of judges in countries from which we take an example, such as the United States or Germany? Do they have...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u31	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] There you go, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u32	With regard to the problem of the impact of vacant judicial posts on the efficiency of proceedings, it seems to me that this is probably a fairly obvious dependency. In Poland the influence of court cases is at the level of 15 million per year, so the judge is statistically one thousand 500... i.e. one thousand 500 cases per judge. And if any job is unincarcerated, then of course there's a lot more of it. But here, in the end, maybe the problem isn't even this statistic that says 10%. Uninsured employment. The bigger problem is that in some of these courts, there is much more than 10% of uninhabited jobs. And then that's a serious problem. I have this information, for example. In the District Court in Gniezno, which is not a grand court, there were 4 vacant judges, they were assigned by the Ministry for Assessors, but no candidate has come forward, which means so far we have such a situation that this personnel cast in this court is very thin. And now those judges who are in this court, of course, have to take over cases previously run by colleagues, which makes in some courts This also applies to large courts such as: court in Warsaw, where judges have a thousand cases and more... So it's easy to imagine what the judge's work might be like in a situation where he has a thousand cases to investigate. And even if he's setting up a dozen vocabulary cases, it's easy to count how many vocals it takes to make a case for the first time. From the information I have. I asked that the 2016 statistical data be analysed in the context of efficiency of the procedure, and we are as if in the course of this, it would appear that there has been a decline in efficiency in the case of economic affairs. And this, if this were to be confirmed, would be a particularly adverse phenomenon. I would like to stress here that these personal problems in the courts, especially in the courts of first instance, are aggravating certain objective phenomena which are not particularly affected. Well, the situation is that the vast majority of judges who are called to regional courts, these are now women, are probably 80% of them. And these are ladies who are so old that quite often, for example. they still have children, e.g. they are entitled to maternity leave. And it also raises problems, because these jobs are not shown as uninsured, but in fact they are uninsured. So this problem of finding a replacement for these vacant judges in some way is all the more pressing. As regards the question of the election of the President, the President, as well as the vice-presidents and members of the bureau, elects the National Judicial Council in a vote, i.e. the number of votes obtained. If there are more candidates for this position, then the one who gets the highest number of votes shall be selected. It's just that in some way... Recently, the situation was that the Presidents of the National Judicial Council were judges either of the Supreme Court or of the Supreme Administrative Court, at least because of the latter, perhaps three or four terms. As for this first question, I have to say that I have a difficulty, because I don't really understand what that question was all about. I understand that there are some requests that have been made on the basis of the Council's rules of procedure regarding the way the Council operates. I have not particularly noted any conclusions that go beyond what the council usually does. You could say that from a formal point I don't see any special difference in vision, but when it comes to the atmosphere, it's a little different. This is probably related to the allegations made by some of the members of the National Judicial Council that the National Judicial Council was politically involved on the opposition side. Such votes have actually been voiced several times by one member of the National Council of the Court of First Instance, and this concerned above all the situation relating to the evaluation of the drafts concerning the Constitutional Tribunal Act. It was the problem that caused this kind of objection. On other issues, I do not see any special changes. We are trying to make all these positions substantive and limited to substantive assessment. And it seems to me that maybe in the approach of some states on the board there is a mistake that they think the critical assessment of the government project is to take the stand on the opposition side. Well, I've never done it like this, and most board members don't do it that way. Let me remind you that we have a statutory duty to ensure the independence of the judiciary and the independence of the judges. So if, in the opinion of the Council, there are proposed legal solutions that violate this principle, then we have a duty to signal it and this cannot be seen as a stand-by of the opposition. Because we had the same situation before when there was a different composition of the council. When the previous parliamentary majority had its majority in the Council and the government was the majority, we also presented critical opinions on these projects. Well, I recall even such a situation that 2 parliamentarians from the previous majority were so dissatisfied that they wanted to submit a separate sentence to the resolution of the National Council of Courts, which the procedure does not provide for. So it can be said that this is probably a rather natural situation, that if there is a government project that is being judged negatively, then this negative assessment does not involve taking a stand on any side of the political scene. And some of them, I think, unfortunately, are picking up on this, and that's why there are accusations that the council is politically involved.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u33	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska with a formal application. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u34	Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask... If I had a formal motion, and we can't vote him out right now... [[We can vote him out.]] We can vote him out, but it won't be effective... Does that mean that... until when did Senator Rulewski come forward with such a conclusion... [[Until there's a quorum.]] Mr. Marshal, I think it's up to you to make sure there's a quorum... [[We can handle this. It is clear to the naked eye that there is no quorum, but if it is, we will be able to vote on these proposals again.]] That means that until there's a quorum, you can't file formal applications because they're not... [[That's the interpretation of the rules... no. You can make proposals, you can vote on them.]] But they won't be effective... But it deprives the opposition of certain rights... or even the senators, not even the opposition. [[Absolutely not.]] In my opinion, yes. [[Perhaps it hinders the opposition from obstructing and blocking its deliberations, but it does not deprive any rights.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[At the next point, maybe...]] Please? [[In the next point...]] Next point? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u35	You're welcome, Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u36	Thank you very much. Mr Marshal, Mr President, because here are the appeals to stick to 2016, I will try to stick to 2016. My question is the following. As parliamentarians, we face the problems of the judiciary with which voters come to us. I would like to say that the vast majority of these problems concern the long-term nature of the procedure. I don't think I've ever met people who come, accuse of lack of independence, independence of the court, etc., etc. However, as far as the discussion is concerned, it seems to me that the initiatives taken in 2016 in this area are the opposite. I mean, I don't remember having a discussion going on in 2016 about what to do to make court proceedings less chronic... I do not remember such initiatives, but I do remember the large discussions and initiatives that have led to the discussion of whether the independence of the judges and the independence of the courts are being violated. Does the judge president also feel that everything that happened in 2016 did not address the issue of the length of proceedings at all? And question two... [[Mr. Senator, it's been a minute and a half, not a minute and a half.]] Good. That second question will be next in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u37	Thank you very much. Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u38	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, Senator Libicki with the right intelligence just hit me with a question. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Are you resigning, Senator?]] No, no, Mr. Marshal, I'm not gonna give you that pleasure. Nevertheless, I will ask a similar question. In your assessment in 2016, did the Minister of Justice propose any legislation, any solutions, any initiative that would primarily address the problem you were talking about, the failure to plant positions, the vacancies through which these procedures are dragged? And did you even meet in 2016 with any initiative that would speed up procedures and give Poles the right to a faster, safer... the possibility of a faster sentence by the justice system? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u39	Thank you very much. And Mr. Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Chairman, I have a question for you. Don't you think that the failure to appoint the judges we have asked so publicly is part of a strategy of the Minister of Justice? The absence of judges means the length of proceedings, because, as you say, judges are burdened with work, they have a lot to deal with. Isn't it also that with the money of the Treasury companies, billboard shares are carried out, in which Poles are convinced that courts are slow, acting inefficiently... [[Let's get to the point, Mr. Senator.]] And as we know... The action is effective because the first citizen of the Republic of Poland was convinced, as we heard yesterday during the conference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u41	Thank you very much. Please answer me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u42	I'm sorry, but there was another question about the retirement age in other countries that I forgot to answer. Of course, there is no uniform regulation here, but it is usually that judges are not sent early to retire because it is inefficient. This is the kind of profession in which as you get older, you get experience and you get knowledge all the time. Well, you can probably compare them to doctors. The longer someone is a specialist and takes care of a field, the more they know about it. So it's rather encouraged... After all, these are common solutions in pension systems, and the idea is to keep people as long as possible in their employment relationship, not to push them out of work as soon as possible. Such a flagship example is the United States, where, as we know, the Supreme Court judges hold their office for life. It's assumed that... it's up to the judge to decide when he quits his job. The U.S. Constitution, if I remember correctly, says that the judge can hold his office as long as he does it impeccably. So that there's no such stiff line at all. With regard to the problem of the length of proceedings, whether there were any proposals in 2016... Honestly, there were only announcements of proposals announced mediaally. I do not recall any project aimed at improving the efficiency of the procedure. Former Minister of Justice initiative of the end of 2015. He asked the representatives of the judicial associations, including the National Council of Courts, to submit some proposals for changes that would improve the functioning of the judiciary. Such proposals were made, but we never got any signal that they were ever taken into account. There have been media announcements that there will be reform of the judiciary by flattening the structure of the court. Let me remind you that now we have a 3-level structure, but there are obviously 2 instances in specific cases. Some announcements have only been made this year, because changes have been adopted. Those which were intended to improve the functioning of the courts concerned actually two issues: the introduction of random allocation of cases and the permanent formation of the court. Well, I can say that it is very debatable whether it will improve the functioning of the courts, especially because the system that was supposed to be responsible for the assignment of cases does not work. A provision was made that cases were to be drawn, and the assumption was that this would be done by an electronic system. So far, this system is gone. And introducing a solution that will be a permanent composition is, in principle, an appropriate demand, but there is no flexible tool here that... I'm afraid that's just gonna cause a lot of perturbation. You have to realize that some of the judges are mixed warehouses. It's made up of judges and jurors. If we maintain the principle that there should always be the same composition This would also apply to these jurors. In the case of the same case... I already have information that it's causing... The need to set a time limit for a hearing involving the same persons causes the time limits to be fixed much later than I would say normally. As a result, there are situations where you have to call 8 jurors for one vote with five cases, because you still have to... Well, that's a concrete example. Please note the perturbation of this composition. The jury's already protesting, saying they don't want to come around so often because it's connected... After all, they have their responsibilities in the workplace. Some people work in private companies and say their employers don't want to agree to it. On this one, when we have eight jurors... Besides, you're gonna have to pay each one of them a diet. So the question is whether this is rational from the point of view of judicial financing. So that some ideas seemingly seem good, in practice they give birth to certain perturbations. I don't think they were quite thought through, because this principle of permanent composition has so far been valid in criminal matters, which is much less, in practice it was quite simple to implement this principle. And if civil, economic, family cases are, say, 10 times more than criminal cases, then the introduction of the same principle is very questionable here. Apart from these two solutions so far, in my opinion, there were no proposals that could improve anything. At the same time, the claim that a random assignment of cases is now being introduced is also a claim for growth, because so far cases have been assigned according to the order of influence, which is also not a system of specific allocation of cases for a particular judge, but also in some way a system of random cases, because the case affected, was registered under a certain number and the division of jurisdiction of the judge resulted from the number he had. Like what he's got. Nine at the end, he got a case like this. So, in fact, that was a random assignment, too, just another way of random assignment of cases. So here it's not really a breakthrough. But there were proposals to think about, for example. on the cognition of courts, on the improvement of the participation of experts in judicial proceedings, on the simplification of the system of relief from judicial costs, on the formalisation of certain requirements relating to judicial proceedings, which would require a change in judicial procedures. Because practically all the practitioners... When you talk to a lawyer or a lawyer, one of the basic issues they raise is that procedures are too formalized. But it could be said that it would be difficult to achieve these demands in such a situation when one of the first pulls of the Minister of Justice was the liquidation of the codification committee, which, among other things, was. She was working on court procedures, and it was introduced, so to speak, total changes to the criminal procedure. We are dealing with the situation that there are currently 3 models of criminal proceedings depending on when the case started, which certainly does not facilitate the functioning of the courts.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u43	Thank you very much. Another round of questions. Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u44	Thank you. Mr President, one of the main competences of the National Judicial Council is the opinion of normative acts concerning the judiciary and judges. This reporting year, although the consultation obligation was respected by the applicants, by the government and all those who submitted draft laws, I would say, on average or very selectively, that the National Council has consulted draft laws. I would like to ask you, Mr President, how the Council gave an opinion on two fundamental legislative proposals, namely the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court, and before that, a law which combined the role of prosecutor general and minister of justice. What was the opinion, and why so? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u45	Thank you very much. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u46	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, 15 judges are the majority of the 25, as you said, and they are set up by the judicial community. And we have a clear situation on the division of power into legislative, executive and judicial. There's no doubt about it. I would like to ask if there are European countries where the majority in similar bodies, such as the KRS, are elected by legislative or executive authorities. Are such countries in Europe? And maybe a second question, by the way. Mr President, this is how I see it, especially in uniform services, that a lot of people are going to early retirement at the age of 50. Retirement is not low, therefore these are high budgetary costs. I would like to ask if you have observed, perhaps, the number of judges currently ruling on the number of retired judges. Does this percentage change in recent years? Is he more or less the same? How do you expect him to change in a certain perspective? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u47	Thank you very much. Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, I have a question about the consultation and your participation in the opinion of acts of law, especially those which should concern you. You said that, unfortunately, some of the projects you learn only from the media. So here's my question. Perhaps in 2016 the Minister of Justice proposed in the new regulations, which we will soon process, changes that would give rise to Sorry about that expression. In a larger dimension. Then you would be obliged to consult the acts already at the stage of the assumptions you demanded. Then, eventually, you'd be involved in deciding their final shape and sending out your opinions. If that's not the case, I have a question. Shouldn't you make a proposal to the Minister of Justice not to ignore you when it is a rule of law shaping a new justice system in Poland? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u49	You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u50	With regard to the issue of the opinion of the acts which concerned systemic issues, i.e. the Constitutional Court, the National Judicial Council and the position of the Minister of Justice, this was the case. There were several projects concerning the Constitutional Tribunal. There is no answer here that each project has been evaluated the same way. We have been paying attention to issues that were important in terms of the role of the National Judicial Council, i.e. solutions that would restrict the independence of the Constitutional Tribunal. I am unable to address the details because it was a while ago, but I would like to make it clear that the first projects were going much further than the version that was finally adopted by the legislator. Many criticisms, which concerned the first projects, were probably justified since they were taken into account by the legislator. With regard to the problem that is fundamental to us, namely the problem of combining the role of Minister of Justice and the Prosecutor General, the National Council has consistently stood in the position that this is not a good solution, because it will equip the Minister of Justice and the Prosecutor General with too many powers when it is also entrusted with administrative supervision of the courts by law. In general, it could be said that, after the change, not only did the function of the Attorney General and the Minister of Justice have been combined, but also equipped by the Attorney General with specific procedural powers. He may decide that a specific procedure or appeal is to be initiated, i.e. practically in a specific case he may take such procedural actions as the prosecutor, and that the prosecutor must carry out supervisory orders on account of his independence. From this point of view, the situation where the Minister of Justice is also a party to criminal proceedings and exercises administrative supervision the courts, is in our view a systemicly defective solution. I would like to remind you here that this issue has also emerged at constitutional level. The National Judicial Council sent an appropriate request to the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Tribunal then stated that it was necessary to separate the exercise of supervisory functions in the administration of the courts from the possibility of influencing the conduct of proceedings. But we were dealing with a different situation at the time, because the Attorney General did not have the procedural powers he now has. And regardless of the fact that the National Judicial Council had negative opinions on the draft, which concerned the merger of these two functions, it submitted a request to the Constitutional Court to examine the constitutionality of these arrangements after the adoption of the law. Except that this proposal has not been substantively recognised, because the National Court of Justice finally withdrew the application from the Constitutional Tribunal, after a change in the designated composition and in that composition, a judge appeared, which the Constitutional Tribunal had previously ruled was not properly elected. So that the initiative taken by the National Judicial Council, i.e. subjecting these arrangements to constitutional control, was formally terminated, there was no substantive ruling by the Constitutional Tribunal. As regards the question of the system of selection of judges for the board, I have already indicated here that there is no uniform model in Europe, but wherever the Council operates and it is important to stress that there are not judicial councils in all EU countries, the principle is that judges are elected to this board and, as I have already said, they are the majority of the board. The only exception I know from this principle is Spain, but here we have to take into account 2 main issues. It is a country with a different constitutional tradition and constitutional solutions, because the head of the state is the king, which in some way also reflects traditions, and there Parliament ultimately elects judges to the council, it is primarily the result of the Constitution, but we have a guarantee of implementing this idea, which I mentioned here before, because candidates for judges only point to judges, in number, seems to be, 2 or 3 in 1st place. Although judges are elected to the council by parliament, candidates are only designated by judges. So this is a solution that somehow guarantees the influence of the judge's environment on the cast of judges in the judicial council. With regard to the percentage of judges who are retired and whether we have any comparison with the previous period, we do not yet have such data for 2016 but it seems that there are a little more. I can say this on the basis of discussions with some of the Presidents of the appeals courts, who have made it clear that this problem is getting worse. To some extent, this is confirmed by the data I mentioned earlier. It appears from the Minister of Justice's notice that the appeals courts are vacant, it seems to be 55 posts, and in relation to the number of judges of these courts it is a relatively large number. And as I said before, it is not excluded that, due to the change of rules, there will be a lot of rest this year, with this perspective until the end of the year and next year. Because of the decrease in the age of the transition to rest, but this is just a certain perspective. Were there any proposals from the Minister of Justice regarding the consultation of legal acts? I don't know anything about that. We, practically speaking, with regard to these opinions, very often in the opinions themselves, stress that it would be appropriate, for example. a longer deadline for drawing up an opinion is set, and so we are signaling this problem. As far as the empowerment of the National Judicial Council is concerned, I have not noted such actions. As I have already said, some judicial councils generally have much more competence than the National Judicial Council, and we have a number of legal acts that have already severely limited the role of the National Judicial Council. I am not talking about projects that may appear today, but about rules that concern and have already been adopted by the National Courts Council. I'm talking about the law on the system of common courts and the law on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. There have been changes here which clearly limit the role of the National Judicial Council. I would like to remind you that in the original solution for the positions of assesors, the persons designated by the National Judicial Council were to be appointed in such competition proceedings as I had previously referred to with regard to judges and were to be appointed by your President. The change introduced is that they are called by the Minister of Justice, and there has been a reduction in the circle of people who can actually be called. In fact, now a model has been adopted that the graduates of this Krakow school will refer to the positions of assessors. The National Judicial Council has the right to object to this decision by the Minister, which, from a systemic point of view, is very debatable in my view. There is also a record, already in force, which, for example. limits the powers of the National Judicial Council as to the functioning of this judicial school and the prosecutor's office; it has been more subordinated to the Minister of Justice. Such a fairly clear example is that so far the National Judicial Council has pointed 3 people to the Programme Board, and now it will point to one. So that it is difficult to find solutions in these recently adopted regulations that strengthen the powers of the National Judicial Council and somehow give more power to it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u51	Thank you very much. Another round of questions. Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u52	Thank you. Well, then I'm gonna finish this question, which I've crossed over the last time. I would like to ask you about the length of the proceedings, that is, whether the National Judicial Council did this, whether you talked about this and what are the possible conclusions of this discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u53	Thank you very much. Senator Ambrosik.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u54	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, two questions. The legislator has shaped the National Judicial Council in such a way that it has representatives of the judicial, legislative and executive powers. I have a question: how many members are made up of the Bureau of the National Judicial Council? And are there representatives of the executive and legislative authorities at the bureau? That's the first question. The second question was provoked by Senator Libicki, who touched on the really important problem of the chronicity of the proceedings. But I think that Poles are also complaining, or even above all, about unrelenting justice, but about immediate injustice. Many complaints that affect the National Judicial Council, unfortunately this is the case, concern the judges themselves, their behaviour in the courtroom. I have a question about these complaints. Please tell me: how many complainants have been personally heard by the National Judicial Council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about the activities of the KRS press secretary, Judge Zurek. On the one hand, it is shown publicly in the media and on the manifestations of the groups that... [[This has nothing to do with the report.]] [[Voice from the room: Of course it does.]] ...and on the demonstrations of groups or organizations that contest the current government, and on the other hand... I would call that activity as a scout, but it is also much more dangerous. Namely, he makes public views that it is not appropriate to accept... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Calm down, please.]] [[Mr. Marshal, we're not on the subject...]] Namely, he makes public his views that the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal should not be recognised and explicitly declares that he will not recognise those judgments, but will apply the Constitution directly. The question is: are the views expressed by Mr Żurek also the views of the National Judicial Council, or does he express his private views? So what? If there's such a conflict, are you going to solve it somehow? Well, it's a press secretary after all. If there's no conflict, there's no problem, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u57	Mr. Senator, it's been a minute. [[Senator Waldemar Sługocki: Formal application.)]] You're welcome, Senator Slugocki. [[...answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u58	I'm sorry. Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask for a brief recess so we can see if the judge... [[Voice from the room:...Durk.]] I know it's the Beetle. Take it easy. ...a spokesperson of the National Council of Courts, spoke about the reform of the justice system in Poland and whether he commented on public outrage and protests against a change in the justice system. I'm asking you to vote for a recess like this.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u59	Mr. Senator, check this out during the proceedings. This is not a serious conclusion. [[Senator Czerwiński should check first.]] You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u60	With regard to the length of court proceedings and whether the Council was dealing with this issue at all, I would say that it was dealing with it. I have already said that in 2015 there was an initiative from the Minister of Justice, who simply asked if we wanted to participate in such work and if we had any proposals. And the National Judicial Council has set up a team that has developed our position. A resolution has been adopted, which is widely available. You can reach this resolution, there are these proposals. There were also talks at the office of the President, because at some point the President said that he might be interested in talking about it. However, I would like to stress here that in this model that has been adopted with us, the National Judicial Council does not have a legislative initiative, so you would have to find an entity entitled to introduce such a draft on the functioning of the justice system to Parliament, in this case improving its functioning. Well, that's what we started. We have taken a position in this area, only that, as I have already emphasised, we had no signal from the Minister of Justice that he wanted to discuss these documents. None of the National Judicial Council ever received an invitation to discuss this matter, and the work that concerned the functioning of the judiciary was rather hidden from public opinion and from the National Judicial Council. If there were any leaks, they were media. If something appeared, it was The projects are ready. About the next one... Oh, may I add here that some of the initiatives of the National Judicial Council have been successful. We were talking about assesura here, and that was, practically speaking, the initiative of the National Judicial Council. In good cooperation with the parliamentarians in the previous composition of the Council, this proposal was presented further. He was formally notified, I remind you, as a presidential project, and that after a few years of work. He also assumed a different model of asesura than the one that is currently in force, but I have also spoken about it. As regards the composition of the Bureau of the National Judicial Council, he shall be elected in the same way as the President and Vice-President. I remind you that I was elected to the bureau in 2015, so I haven't been in this squad since the beginning. It's up to the voters who they choose for the bureau. Currently, there are no representatives of the president or parliamentarians in the bureau. This is not due to bad will, it is due to the fact that there has been no special interest of parliamentarians in attending meetings of the bureau, which is a body acting on an ongoing basis. We can compare that to the board of directors at the company. The board is, let's say, the board of directors. Thus, the point is that participation in Bureau meetings involves certain responsibilities, i.e. There is a need to keep up with the Council and make many decisions. But so far there hasn't been any special interest in it. I don't recall the situation at all, that ever the candidacy of a parliamentarian was put forward in the presidential election. I don't know if the senator has any other reflections, but I don't think there's ever been one, and if he wasn't reported, he didn't have a chance to be taken into account. As regards complaints concerning the activities of the Board and the activities of the Courts, here it can be said that there is such a principle: if the action concerns the activities of the courts, it is transferred, according to the jurisdiction, to the President of the Court, because it is not strictly a matter of the activities of the National Courts Board, and we have a committee of complaints and requests, and several thousand complaints are brought to it within a year. And there's the visitation and vetting committee. And it works in such a way that if there are very serious allegations in any of the complaints, because such situations occur, then there is a team that investigates the case, e.g. as part of a visit. This was the case with the media case concerning a district court in Minsk, when there were allegations that it was because of poverty that parents had been taken away from their children. Thus, the way in which complaints are dealt with depends to a large extent on what is the subject of the complaint. There was also a specific question as to whether I knew how many people were heard in such complaints. I am unable to mention this from memory, it would have to be checked in the data we have concerning the activities of this committee of complaints and conclusions. Now the issue of the Ombudsman's activities and the answer to the question of whether the Ombudsman's views are identical to those of the Board. I would like to say that, in many cases, Judge Żurek clearly states that he expresses his position as a judge rather than as a member of the National Council of Courts. So these issues need to be separated. Although I admit that in practice it is difficult to separate the statement which he considers to be the statement of the judge, from the press secretary's statement of the council. But I think that here it should be decided by the criterion: when he speaks about the activities of the council, i.e. the actions which the council takes, i.e. when he says e.g. It is difficult to say that he then acts on behalf of the board. Can the judge, in this case the Ombudsman, take part e.g. In the demonstrations? And how should this be assessed? This is difficult to say in general because it would be necessary to address specific circumstances and to say what the manifestation was, what it was about. It can be said that the Council of Europe's standards show that judges as citizens have the right to participate in public life and have the right to express their views. So if we're dealing with this kind of situation, that's for example. a demonstration in which the constitutional compatibility of some adopted solutions is contested, and this still applies, for example. the independence of the judicial authority, it seems to me that the judge has the right to participate in such a manifestation and thus to express his assessment. In specific cases, do you not exceed any limits? Well, that's the question of an individual assessment to be made from an ethical point of view, which is set out in the Code of Ethics. We clearly stress here that the judge cannot engage politically on any side; and, as we know, the judge cannot belong to any political party either. However, as a citizen, the judge has the right to his own beliefs, and this cannot be prohibited. With regard to the recognition of decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal, this issue is, of course, debatable from a substantive point of view, many statements on this subject. Many representatives of science believe that if the Constitutional Tribunal is composed of a person who is not a judge, that is the basis for not treating the decision as a judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. The farthest view of this is that we are dealing with a non-existent judgment at that time. If we agree that such a judgment is not an existing judgment, then the statement that it will not be enforced is not surprising. Except, as I say, it is debatable because there is no full uniformity of views here. With regard to the theoretical problem of whether or not the court... Here it is not that someone will not accept the judgments of the Court at all, but whether the court, in its ruling, can say that it will not apply a specific ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, because it considers them to be non-existent. This is already a matter of individual assessment and can only concern the sphere of specific judgment in a particular case. This is always the individual decision of the judge. The problem is also debatable. Although the vast majority of lawyers believe that this is possible In determining a specific case, the court may itself assess whether certain provisions to be applied are constitutional or not, so whether it can apply the Constitution directly. This would result from such a general constitutional principle that the Constitution is the source of the law. But there are also voices that say that the courts do not have the power to do so, and when they believe that the provision is non-constitutional, they should refer the application to the Constitutional Court. These are debatable issues. It is difficult to judge them clearly here, although some cases seem quite obvious. I would like to remind you here of the judgment of the Court of Appeal in Wrocław, which said that it refused to accept the evidence in a case which was collected illegally, even though the current provisions of C.P.K. They allow that possibility. The Court of First Instance referred directly to the Constitution and said that under the rule of law it is not possible for the court to rely on evidence which has been collected contrary to the law. As I say, the question of whether or not the court was right in this particular case is a matter of assessment. But it is surprising to see the reaction of the Ministry of Justice, which in this case threatened judges with disciplinary proceedings or even criminal proceedings. I think it's more shocking than someone saying he's gonna apply the constitution when he hears the case. If the court does something like this and does it faultyly, it is always possible to submit all of this to instant control. Well, maybe so much for the questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u61	Thank you very much. Another round of questions. Senator Fedorovich. Now we're going to group five questions each. First Senator Fedorovich, and then Senator Comfort. [[Mr. Marshal, maybe after 10 questions...]] We can try. You're welcome, Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'm afraid I have a first question for you. On the basis of which paragraph of the Rules of Procedure allowed a question which was not entirely relevant to our debate, which is the question of Senator Czerwinski? If you answer me, I'll be...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u63	I'll answer that, Senator. I did a very fast research on Google and found hundreds of statements by Judge Zurek in 2016. There are at least hundreds of Google scores.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u64	I knew you'd be on your own. [[Did they involve the justice system?]] [[Of course. They were about justice reform, just like this debate.]] I want to tell you that, fortunately, our chairman... [[And that's not weird, because the judge is a spokesman.]] Good. Mr. Marshal, I don't argue anymore. Let's stick with each other. I have a question about the report. I didn't find it in the report, but in the information on the activities of the National Council that we have on the Internet, there's something like a matter of delicacies that involve judges. Mr President, tell me, in 2016, did the cases that the National Judicial Council was dealing with concerning the judges that were attacked by the judge that you attacked by the Minister of Justice, which is not a lawyer? That's what's blown away. Does your judge have the right to refer to the National Council and the committee on this kind of intervention? To be honest, I don't think a politician has any right to comment on a court order. And just tell me if this is the case... Were there more cases like this in 2016? But the public was very concerned about these two events. That was also the case, as I recall, unless I was wrong, Judge Tulei.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u65	Thank you very much. Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u66	Thank you. Two questions. First of all, in 2016 several times appeared. As, in my opinion, such artillery preparations for subsequent changes of the ossification charge, overshadowing the state of the judge. However, to a large extent the justice system is based on the civil factor of the jury. I can't remember exactly what percentage. Maybe you'll know. And the question is: do you think that this share of the social factor in Poland is too small? Enough? What's he like? This is the first case. And two words of comment. When there is such a percentage of the social factor, can you say that this is caste when it comes to justice? Second, one of the first laws...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u67	Mr. Senator, it's been a minute. Maybe next time. Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u68	Thank you very much. Mr President, I have a question about the retirement age. You've said a lot about it, and that's important. And in this context, I would like to ask a question, but also in the context of these job shortages, the failure of the Minister of Justice to appoint judges. Or maybe the National Judicial Council has been diagnosing the situation and imposing on it the laws that we have... Will the introduction of this retirement age, 60 years for ladies and 65 years for men, not result in a very large outflow of judges in the coming years, a transition to retirement? And what will it look like with regard to the appointment of new judges? Isn't there a threat to the functioning of the justice system? And isn't it also a kind of political procedure to exchange judges? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u70	Mr President, in 2016 The National Judicial Council held 20 meetings. As I counted, they lasted about 60 days. And I was wondering: how is it possible that for 60 days the Minister of Justice, who is a member of the National Judicial Council, has not found a single day to appear at these meetings? Please tell me: can you organise these meetings at a time when the Minister is busy with important matters, media conferences or other events? And did the minister in any way suggest how to hold the meetings of the National Judicial Council so that he could participate in them, or somehow explain his absence? And what do you personally think of these notorious absences of Minister Ziobra at the meetings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u71	Thank you very much. And Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u72	Mr. Marshal, Judge... Mr. Marshal, I'm afraid to ask you a question, you're so dangerous today. [[Mr. Chairman is dangerous?]] No, no, I'm addressing you... [[I encourage you...]] The judge is extremely gentle. Judge, could you once again, in more detail, approximate the statistics on the number of judges in Poland and pending cases within one year, i.e. 2016? If the judge doesn't remember, maybe from 2015... more or less, I don't mean accurate data. So how do we look from other European countries, Judge? How many people, so to speak, serve judges? The point is, one judge falls, I don't know, for example. 5 or 6 people who help him at work, and in the European Union this is... The answer to this question will be for me to ask another question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u73	I will not give in to Senator Czarnobaj's pressure and give the floor to the President after five questions, not after ten. [[Graceful darling...]] You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u74	Thank you very much. The problem of these so-called problems. Attacks on judges and comment on judgments. In my opinion, two issues need to be clearly separated here. Every citizen, including a politician, has the right to comment on a judicial decision that has been given. He may not like this ruling, and he may express such an assessment. The standard provides that this should not be done in the course of proceedings, because this is considered to be exerting some pressure on the court. After the ruling... any judgment given may be criticised, as we, as judges, are clearly talking about. There are no restrictions here. All we ask is that it be substantive criticism, because then it is a conversation on a different level. If it's not about substantive criticism, if it's said that a judge is a son, for example. Some kind of activist from the previous era, and that's why he's making flawed judgments or that this judge is politically involved... We react to such criticism in a different way, because this is not the criticism we are talking about here. There must have been a few such examples. This flagship is the Warsaw case in which Mr What was the party. This took place in the course of his proceedings and in the course of this procedure he, to put it mildly, accused the impreciseness of the judge who conducted the proceedings. It was really about not taking his application into account so that the defendant would be rejected. In a situation where your judge has given his ruling I remind you that it is subject to an action at the time of the instance that there is a possibility of instant review of such a judgment, said that it would try to bring disciplinary action against it. I don't recall the judge asking the National Judicial Council to take any action to protect him. It was a matter known to the general public, media, and we're here on this case. Not only this one, but this one is so well-known to everyone. I must say that... this was a civil case where the course of proceedings is recorded through audio and video apparatus. We had a meeting of the National Judicial Council at which we re-created the course of this procedure. The assessment of all was consistent with the judge's behaviour in accordance with the procedure and very polite towards the parties. This assessment of Minister Jaki was not justified in our assessment, and we therefore asked the Marshal of the Sejm to examine this issue in the context of whether the Minister as a parliamentarians, acting in this way, did not exceed the principles of ethics. I don't know what the final part of this procedure is. In any case, there is an opportunity to get acquainted with the course of this judicial procedure, because, once again, it is all recorded in the audio-video system. This is actually a very good solution. I regret that such a mechanism does not exist in criminal matters, that it is only in civil proceedings. I think so. So objectively, that it would be more useful in criminal proceedings. From such a practical point of view, there is only a problem of the kind that, in my view, this audio-video recording was considered unnecessary as evidence of the course of the proceedings. This makes it very difficult for the agents and the courts of second instance to act. There has been some revision of the procedure and a return to the traditional protocol, but the same recording of audio-video is very important because it always allows to verify how the judge, for example. treats the parties, the representatives, whether the proceedings are conducted in accordance with the rules. As for the problem of jury participation and whether he is significant, I do not think so. And I think it was a mistake to limit the jury's participation. He is now a character, you can say, actually a residual one, especially when it comes to civil procedure. The limitation of the number of cases in which jurors are present was dictated by such practical considerations. The idea was to make these cases faster, because it was assumed that if a single professional judge ruled, it would be easier to conduct proceedings, they would be appointed more quickly, for example. time limits for deferrals. But it seems to me that the social costs of this are not good, and it would be necessary to consider where the jury's involvement should be restored. Because there are studies, including international ones, which clearly indicate that if there are jury members or jury members, Because it is a question of different systemic solutions, it is a significant increase in citizens' confidence in the justice system. Similarly, similar studies indicate that if a person has personally encountered the activities of the courts, despite all objections to the courts which are, his experience is much better than such a common opinion on the functioning of the courts. So as far as this question is concerned, I think the jury's involvement is insufficient. In one of these proposals, we were just talking about the need to think about it. We had a conference in the National Judicial Council on citizens' participation in justice. And we're also maintaining what's now actually being reported. We've been talking about this for a long time. It would be necessary to consider the function of a judge of peace, i.e. a judge who will be chosen, for example. by the citizens and will be entitled to settle some minor matters. This would both have a very good effect on citizens' confidence in justice and would at the same time relieve the courts of the recognition of minor cases. Because one of the basic factors that determines that the deadlines for the recognition of cases in Poland are not the best is the number of cases that the courts deal with. One of these basic demands, which would improve the functioning of the judiciary, is to change the cognition of the courts, so to limit this cognition, to look for alternative methods for the recognition of disputes, e.g. as part of mediation or any other such institution and just by the judges of peace who could take over some of these minor cases. In general, will changes in the retirement age of judges have any negative effects? Well, it seems to me that at least during the transitional period they will cause, because in the justice system in Poland, judges are primarily women. And if there's a change in the provisions on rest and they're going to go to rest for a woman who's 60 years old, it's going to be a big percentage of the judges. And since our current experience is that it takes quite a long time for this stage to announce a competition for a free judge's position, and then to hold this competition, to present the candidacy to the President... So I assume, unfortunately, that the effect of this will be that this gap, if there are jobs in courts, is likely to be even greater than what we are dealing with so far. And that doesn't bode well when it comes to efficiency. What was the real purpose of reducing the retirement age, turning to rest for women? It's hard for me to say. It seems to me that all reasonable considerations would indicate that this age should be extended rather than shortened; this is also the global trend. So there must be some kind of occupational hazard. Are we, as far as European statistics are concerned, misjudged or good? I do not have accurate data at this moment, but I can say in general that we belong to countries, let's say, medium-sized as far as European statistics are concerned. However, it seems to me that a certain answer to the question of why we are in the middle of a stake, and not above, is precisely the problems associated with the organisation of the functioning of the courts. The senator said here, among other things. about the service of judges. In many countries, judges have e.g. 2 assistants to help, and with us the situation is that even in the Supreme Court there are not so many assistants what judges, which means we have e.g. The situation is that 1 assistant is on 2 judges. I'm sure it doesn't make it any easier. However, the problem is much broader in my view, because it is related to the level of spending on the judiciary at all. Several times I have heard such statements, that the judiciary in Poland is extremely expensive, that I think we spend the most on the judiciary in Europe. If any of you are interested, I will show you the Eurostat data that I have at my disposal, i.e. those objective indicators. And they show that it's completely different. If I remember correctly, but I can verify it, if I need it, we will spend on the judiciary, including the Prison Service, and it is also important that not only the courts are in this budget, but also the Prison Service spend about EUR 2.5 billion a year. The Netherlands, which is much smaller than us, spends over 4 billion and Germany spends around 13 billion. So if we look at it from this point of view... Well, to claim that our expenses are particularly high, I don't know where they come from. And I think it will be even clearer if we consider how much our citizen spends statistically on the justice system. Eurostat data show that this is around EUR 60 per capita. In turn Scandinavian countries and e.g. Ireland, where the efficiency of the procedure is indeed the highest, has these expenditures of EUR 500 or more, i.e. it can be seen that the expenditure is de facto ten times greater than that of us. It certainly has some effect on the efficiency of the proceedings. Of course, we as states cannot afford this level of expenditure. But if we evaluate the efficiency of justice, it seems to me that it has some significance, however, as to how much money is spent on the functioning of the judiciary, especially on technical and administrative service to the courts. Were there any obstacles to the Minister's participation in the meetings of the National Judicial Council? Well, I don't know anything about that. The National Judicial Council has never received e.g. such a notification that the Minister would like to come to the Council meeting, and he cannot and asks that the meeting be postponed. As far as participation is concerned, as I said, we are trying to make it available. There's an example right now. the Council meeting plan for 2018, so that participation in these meetings can be planned well in advance. Well, of course, there are random things that can't be predicted in advance, but I don't think these are the obstacles that prevent the minister from coming to the council at least once a year. I would remind you that the Minister of Justice is a member of the National Judicial Council in connection with the function of the Office. Well, I've always understood participation in the council's work as a duty. If someone has been elected to the council or sits on the council because of the office in office... I believe that it is his duty to participate in the work of this body. As far as this European statistics are concerned, as I have already said, I am not able to give any concrete details right now outside of the financial expenditure data, because this is exactly what I was interested in because of the speeches, perhaps three times, by your Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki, who stressed that the judiciary is particularly expensive in terms of the costs of its operation. So I wanted to verify it somehow. I did it on the basis of Eurostat data. I don't know what kind of data the Deputy Minister has... Excuse me, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u75	Thank you very much. Another round of questions. Mr. President Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u76	Mr. Marshal, I'd like to reassure you. The firm is prepared that we will be working on this point by 4 p.m. So that we still have some time, we don't have to be in such a hurry. [[Yeah, yeah, but we still have 10 other points.]] [[It's for tomorrow, the day after tomorrow.]] Yeah, but we'll save that for tomorrow. [[The question is, is tomorrow only...]] Mr President, I was extremely interested in this topic that you mentioned, that is, this kind of exchange of places between Poland and Ukraine. I'm also watching it in other areas. Politicians in Kiev ask me: why does the European Union expect us to join the civil service association and allow you to terminate civil service a year ago? If you'd care to elaborate on the subject... The Lord said that the Ukrainians are introducing solutions that have been with us for 27 years, and we are going in the direction from which the Ukrainians are going. If you'd care to elaborate on the subject... This is a fundamental issue when it comes to shifting us from now on to the West.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u77	Mr President, I think we are at the moment rubbing off on the topic of international policy, foreign Poland. Senator Shark. [[She had to leave...]] She had to leave. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. I will admit that I was a little concerned about your answer to the first question I asked, because I believe that since the National Court of Justice is above all about taking care of the level of judges, it is important to start with yourself and not try to divide your spokesperson's statements into private and public statements. And so they are perceived as public. [[Dariusz Zawistowski, Chairman of the National Judicial Council: That's what I was saying, it's hard to separate...]] A certain light on this can give other facts... I will use the facts of 2016. Quaternary of the National Judicial Council No 4, December 2016, article "Direct application of the Constitution'. Is this just an academic discussion, or is there an incentive within your body for the courts to apply the constitution directly? Then... Well, I'm giving you an example of the psychic. The State withdrew, although in 2017, its conclusions from 2016, 4 applications to the Constitutional Tribunal. The Communication, which justifies this withdrawal, states: the decision of the Council is linked to changes in the formations of the Constitutional Tribunal which the President of the Court has ordered. Come on. Okay, here's a note. This is what we read: the judges who were elected under the law of the Court have been designated by the media as understudys. Well, I'll admit, this is the first time I've heard of using statements... [[Mr. Senator, one and a half minutes.]] I'm getting to the bottom of this. ...Mediatically to undermine the constitutional state of the state. [[Thank you...]] Just the fact that we're dealing with this... [[Thank you very much, Senator...]] You have no right to do this. That's one thing...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u79	Thank you very much. Senator Rybicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u80	Thank you. I am going to ask a little ad vocem whether, Mr President, the constitution is not the highest legal act and whether the judges, by vowing, also pledge fidelity to the constitution. And the question I would like to ask is the report. It shows that the Council has delivered opinions on 218 draft normative acts, including 58 government legislative and 62 parliamentary, parliamentary and senate drafts. That's a lot. And I would like to ask if such a large number of these acts do not make the citizen feel that way... It is about the citizen's confidence in the state and the state's law. Some publicists call it legislative diarrhea, and it often leads people to believe that there is chaos here. Secondly, I would like to ask about the justification of the proposed laws, in fact their substantive quality, their substantive value. For how much they contain analyses e.g. statistical or scientific evidence of the need for changes? Or, for example, indicate what rules could be better... where case law could be better implemented and for example. on the basis of what new rules? Because I have the impression that parliamentary projects are often justified in a moderate and small way... [[Mr. Senator, it's been a minute and a half.]] ...in substance, in terms of the proposed changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u81	Thank you very much. Senator Ambrosik... I don't see him... he's gone. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u82	Mr. Marshal! Judge! After the answer to the statistics, I have the following question. In 2016, the National Courts held any substantive discussions with executives and legislative bodies to answer questions concerning the amount of administration and handling, expenditure, shortening the period of judgment, etc.? Were there any discussions on the initiative in 2016 As we know, there is no legislative initiative A resolution authority or a legislative body? In short, was it said: let's talk about what needs to be done to improve this process and not just replace the KRS with our own? [[Thank you very much. Are there any other reports...]] One more question. Because I have two. [[Please.]] One more question, then, Mr. Marshal. Judge, could you tell me a little bit more? Because this is a very interesting case, I am not a lawyer, but it sounded very interesting in your mouth about the fact that the Ministry of Justice has taken an initiative or an indication, or an emphasis on judges, that if they apply the constitution directly, it may even come to court? That's what she sounded like. In a nutshell The judge's statement. Could you hear more about this from the judge?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Continuing the thought, perhaps too long and stretchy, and as a summary, I would say that you have set yourselves up as a council, as a whole, and I am not only talking about the spokesperson anymore. On one side of the conflict. This may also be due to the thinking that is contained in this report. I will quote one sentence, from page 117: based on article. 4 of the Act on the National Courts of Justice, the Council calls on the legislative authorities and the executives to respect the principle of three divisions of the authorities. Only that you are not authorized to do so, because the three divisions of the authorities, of course, to a certain extent yes, but not only... i.e. Not as much as you're gonna usurp yourselves. The three divisions of the authorities include the general principles of the Constitution, one of the first articles. You, on the other hand... this article. 4 clearly states: The Council presents the Sejm, the Senate, the President of the Republic of Poland, etc. Information from the Board's annual activities and requests for current problems and needs of the judiciary. The needs and problems of the justice system, not the three divisions of the authorities, because this is much more general. You've been involved in a political discussion, unfortunately, on one side, you're running it and fighting it, sorry, well... [[Senator, ask me a question.]] And that's not the point. You guys are so sorry. From the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges. That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u85	Question mark at the end? There are no more calls. Can we close the list? Can we accept that we are closing the list and then we will proceed to the discussion after the answer has been given? You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u86	As regards the problem of the direct application of the Constitution and whether the Council somehow encouraged the direct application of the Constitution, there was not such an official position of the Council. As the senator said, there was an article in the council quarterly, so I wouldn't treat it as a council position. But there was a scientific conference in Katowice on this subject, and there actually all the constitutionalists said that it is not a problem, whether it is possible, only that the court has to apply the constitution directly, because it comes directly from the constitution itself. The question was, what is the content of the jury's oath. The judges are just swearing that they will abide by the constitution and laws, so here it is as consistent as possible with the jury's oath. Come on. As regards the withdrawal of proposals from the Constitutional Tribunal, I would stress that here the Council itself did not assess whether these judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, who in this opinion... i.e. so populistly or popularly they are called understudys, they were properly chosen or not. This was decided by the Constitutional Tribunal. The decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal are final and binding for all, so they are also binding on the National Courts Council. If there was a judgment of the Court from which it appeared that a particular judge had not been properly elected, then it is difficult to discuss it, because no one has repealed that judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. So it's not an assessment of the board that they were wrongly appointed, it's a matter of ruling by the Constitutional Tribunal. Some of the judgments have not been published, but there is also the opinion that not publishing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal does not mean that there is no ruling. It was a consequence of the judgments of the Constitutional Court, not of its own assessment of the National Court of Justice. The National Judicial Council does not have the power to determine whether or not a provision is compatible with the Constitution, but only has the power to ask the Constitutional Court to examine the constitutionality of certain provisions. There's no such thing as a court that recognizes a case. I am actually in agreement with the view that, if the court finds out the case, it may in this individual case consider that the provision to be applied is non-constitutional and may refuse to apply it. As regards the question of the number of opinions and the number of projects involved, and whether it is not legal inflation, in general, it seems that the number of projects is indeed too high and the quality of the proposed solutions is not at the highest level. Here we said that the Constitutional Court Act was probably recognized by Parliament, if I remember correctly, five times. So this really is a problem that needs to be considered. We seem to lack some pragmaticity, which is, as far as I know, e.g. in the UK, where the Queen is probably two years in advance of the Parliament's work project and plans in good time for what Parliament will do. Unfortunately, we still lack much to develop such a model. And if we're dealing with a situation that's changing all the time, then it's actually a serious problem. The Law on the System of Universal Courts has been amended more than 100 times. So we're actually going to do that. With the phenomenon of legal inflation, because every minister of justice had a fundamentally different view of how the courts were to function. So I think we need a discussion here about what we want to create a model of justice. It is necessary to determine the direction in which we are going and then to adapt the provisions to this intended model. Meanwhile, we have complete freedom here, because as far as recent changes are concerned, I remind you that there was a minister who said that we had to abolish small courts and then his successor restored those courts. What perturbations were there, we all know very well. So I guess you don't have to rush things around here. We need to think about something in depth, we need to develop a model, and then we need to implement it consistently, with some adjustments that are needed. And here's the example of the random assignment of cases I was talking about. Let's say it's a good idea, but shouldn't it work so that it works first, does it work, and then it introduces a rule that says that, based on this system, cases will be assigned? Meanwhile, the recipe has been in force for several months and we have an announcement that maybe in January this system will start working. So it seems that such actions are not very reasonable. Here you need more planning and discussion before we decide on a solution. About the discussion about... I don't know if I wrote it down exactly. Were there any debates at the National Judicial Council at the initiative of the authorities? I said general authority because I mean either parliament or the President. As far as the Ministry of Justice is concerned, there was no such initiative and there was no reply to any of the proposals that we addressed in writing to the Ministry of Justice, while there were some works or meetings at the office of the President. Because, as I was saying, Mr President said that he was possibly interested in solutions that would, above all, make it easier for citizens to access the courts. Except it hasn't taken any particular shape, there's no project so far. With regard to the statement on the court's ruling, which said that it refused to apply in the case of evidence which was collected illegally This is about the judgment of the Court of Appeal in Wrocław It was one of the vice-ministers' reactions. I am not able to quote it exactly as to the word, but the meaning of the statement was clearly such that if the courts dare to apply the constitution directly In this case, it was the Wrocław court. The consequences may not only be disciplinary but also criminal. As regards the allegation that the National Council of Courts has taken a position and this position of arms, it advocates on one side and calls for respect for the principle of three divisions of power, it seems to me that there is also a misunderstanding here, because the division of power is one of the foundations of the rule of law and, in principle, the three divisions of power, as expressed in Article. 10 constitutions, there are further consequences later, so this is, let's say, the mother rule for the rules that are included in the Constitution in the chapter on courts and tribunals. There we have the development of this idea, in art. 173, if I remember correctly, the courts are separate and independent from the other authorities. Constitutional provision, Art. 186, ordering the National Judicial Council to uphold the independence of the judiciary. So this statement that we are calling for legislative proposals that deal with the functioning of justice to take into account the principle of three divisions of power, in my opinion, is not a substantive mistake. Such a statement should not be read in such a way that the National Judicial Council, by calling for compliance with the provisions of the Constitution, is on a political side. Because once again, I would stress that in our view, we have a duty to respect the constitutional provisions that guarantee the independence of the judiciary, regardless of what political party currently exercises power. If any of you have the opportunity or willingness to examine the positions of the National Judicial Council over the last 10 years, I guarantee that there will be critical assessments of projects submitted throughout this period. We are guided by whether the project violates the constitutional rules we are talking about or not. If we think he's in violation, that's what we're saying. As it happens, most of the projects relating to the functioning of justice are government projects, but you can't say it again, to conclude that a negative opinion about a government project is equivalent to a stand against the government. It's a bit of a missed position, it's a bit of a simplification. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u87	As a series of questions have been exhausted, we are now in discussion. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Klich first in the discussion. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u88	(PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! It's a good thing this conversation took place. We know much more and I hope that through this House, the public will also learn how much the National Judicial Council has done in recent years to strengthen the rule of law in Poland. I would like to thank the President and the members of the National Judicial Council on the day following the presentation by President Duda of his legislative proposals, which undermine the role of the National Judicial Council in our legal system and thus undermine the rule of law in Poland. The National Judicial Council, in my assessment and many of my colleagues, has done well with the obligations imposed on it by the Constitution. And although, since 1989, when it was established, its powers had been changed, it has always been the guardian of the independence of the judiciary and the independence of the judges. She did well in this role. This must be said today, at a time when the KRS is the pillar of the independence of the judiciary, which the parliamentary majority of the PiS, the majority of the government in Poland, is trying to undermine. The disassembly of the KRS goes in the same direction where you went earlier, changing the law on the prosecution, introducing a very broad competence for the prosecutor general, eliminating the autonomy of the prosecutor's office with regard to the executive authority and the executive authority with regard to the prosecutor's office, which was one of the most important achievements in the achievements of recent years, and endowing the prosecutor general with extraordinary powers. The questioning of the role of the KRS in the system of the rule of law in Poland is also moving towards the introduction of the applicable law into the Polish legal system. fruits from a sick tree which have nothing to do with the Polish legal tradition. These poisoned fruits will poison the Polish legal system and will also poison the objectivity of judicial decisions. The proposals to overturn the current system of the rule of law in Poland are also a law on the system of common courts, the one not vetoed by the President, which is the result of political intent and has nothing to do with the outside concern for the recovery of the judiciary. It's not about healing the judiciary. It's about taking control of the judiciary. So to eliminate what is the work of the whole democratic civilization of the West The independence of the judiciary. In the same way, in the vetoed laws by your President, prepared by the Sejm, but we do know that the government's inspiration was to undermine the remaining pillars of judicial independence. The President, when he vetoed, decided to light a candle for God, but yesterday he lit the devil's ogare, because he didn't stand on the ground of the primaries, he didn't stand on the ground of the principles, the principles we've known since John Locke and Montescius, and on which the whole democratic civilization of the West is based. Mr President, and yes, he proposed that politicians in the Sejm should elect judges, in this elected section of the KRS, by a majority of 3/5. But he really agreed with his political camp that politics should dominate the law, that it is not the judges who should elect their representatives to the National Court Register, but politicians should do so. At a time when it turned out that this solution would not be supported in the Sejm, the President says: each Member will have one vote. But the PiS responds: How about the Senate? Maybe the Senate, the size of 3/5 votes? Because PiS knows perfectly well that he has an advantage in the Senate. Here, as one of the right-wing publicists noted, editor Zaremba, is about monopolizing power. To monopolize power, not to heal justice. And that's your intention. This is why I was so asking about this exchange of places between Poland and Ukraine, about bringing Poland out of the system of democratic values of the West and moving us east. And this change of places where Ukraine is introducing solutions, as the President of the National Courts said, which have so far been used in Poland. Because they are used in the democratic countries of the West And we, with the hands of the PiS, are trying... or, in fact, you, with your hands, in the Seym, in the Senate, through the president, are trying to introduce rules that have nothing to do with those rules that John Locke and Montescius have already spoken about, that is to say the quintessence. That's the point of this operation you want to do. This operation is called taking control of the judiciary. This operation is no healing action, this operation is an action aimed at the basis of democracy, the rule of law in Poland. That is why I have submitted my thanks to the KRS, in the hands of the President. And I'm hoping that this writing operation of taking control of the judiciary will succeed in stopping it. I also hope that after these dramatic moments which we are all experiencing, the National Council of the Court will continue to serve Poland as an independent control tool, as a tool for controlling the independence of the judiciary jointly exercised by the judges and by the part of the political class which has so far had a minority share in its emergence. And I hope that the KRS will be a keynote for independence in Poland of an independent justice system. And just as we fought for independence in the 1980s, it must be said today that this independence is still a challenge, that the challenge is still ahead of us, and that we must continue to fight for it in the Parliament hall, here in the Senate Chamber, and that they may also have to demonstrate again in defence of the independence of citizens who are attached to an independent judiciary and will not be allowed to enter into raspberries. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u89	Thank you. Senator Zdrojewska has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u90	Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to thank you for your work in 2016, as well as this year, for the hard work of the National Courts, but also for all the judges in Poland, in a period that has been the most difficult since the last year. Is it two years? For the Polish judiciary and the Polish justice system, because it was the year when you had to stand guard of the redhead values, and this was what I think you managed to do. And for that I would like to thank you, because it was visible around certain values and the National Judicial Council community, and from the huge part of the society that went out on the streets, protested and spoke, and from a large part of the political class. Thank you so much for that. At the same time, I offer you my condolences. 'Cause you can't call it that. In connection with what has been happening, especially recently. I am talking about a billboard campaign, an unprecedented example of slandering courts, one of the pillars of the state, because courts are one of the three pillars of the state, i.e. attacking the foundations of the state with a billboard campaign through government actions, a false campaign, a lie, a bad one, also in a substantive sense, but also a campaign that... I assure you that if this kind of campaign were applied to e.g. politicians or Members, we would immediately have requests to the prosecutor's office to convict the authors of such a campaign for slandering the fundamentals of the state. And that's what we're dealing with here. But we're not gonna let this go, we're gonna remember that. I don't think it's gonna be forgotten for anyone who's taking part in the devastation of the rule of law right now. Marshal Bielan, who had previously held a discussion, used the term 'obstructed', suggesting that the opposition prolongs the debate. And I would like to say that we never prolong debates on trivial matters. We only ask questions and protest on these most important issues. And that is what happened in this Senate term, that this most important issue is the courts, the defence of the freedom of the courts. Our goals, the objectives of this side of the room, are identical to those of the National Judicial Council, although we understand very well that we live in completely separate worlds. Let us take note of what the President has written, and what we have also talked about, namely the devastation of the courts that have taken place in the last two years and is still taking place in front of us, because the next decisions that Senator Klich has spoken about are being made. All this makes us stand in such a place that for some it is perhaps the last moment to turn to the straight path of law and justice. For those who will continue in this mistaken position in my opinion, then there will be no respect. So I would say: there will be no respect for those who deal with Polish law in an unworthy way. I'd like to refer to one more thing that's disgusting. She's out there somewhere in our previous discussions, but right now we know how it's gonna work. We can already say something about this, because some regulations are already in place and operate, such as the one about retirement, retirement. As a woman, I have to say how unfair this is to women. The fact that a threshold of 60 and 65 years has been introduced makes it even worse than a normal pension law. Why would you do something like that? I don't know why Mr. Patrick is doing this. I don't know, maybe he's doing it because he's a young man and he's making mistakes, a lot of mistakes. He does not respect the work of those who have great experience, and these are the ones who will say goodbye to the courts, including the Supreme Court, because this is the issue that you will leave the President. Unfortunately, it all points to that. So that we deprive ourselves of the most experienced judges. What does that remind us of? I must say that it reminds me of Stalin's times, when the new power entered the courts, entered the workplaces and threw out old, experienced masterminds, directors, etc., and instead put in their Bolshevik brothers. And this was a situation where people without competence and without preparation were led by large individuals. And we know how it ended. This is described in the literature. I think if we lead to this kind of situation. And in a moment, some of the last laws that devastate the judiciary will enter into force. We will be able to say that this is very similar to some of the actions of Stalinist times, i.e. such an exchange of human resources, usually without justification, sometimes only motivated by personal revenge. And this is where I move on to the matter of Minister I am discussing today and the actions of Minister Ziobra, i.e. to the obvious privacy. As far as the judiciary is concerned, these laws are introduced into the judiciary, into the judiciary, clearly personal elements. And that's what the Krakow case is about, it's about this Mr. Jaki case, this painting because of the dissatisfaction with some court decision. This is unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen, because the minister should be cut off absolutely from such things. He should not comment on any matter that concerns his family or his own family and matters that have been dealt with in connection with it. You can't do that. It's just unacceptable all over the world. And if the minister does something like that, then we senators should brand it, we should pay attention to it. I mean, I'm never gonna go for it, and the state is gonna go for it. I don't know. I'd like to talk more about politics, so I'd like to talk about it. She called it because there was a charge that the judges were starting to speak politically. There were charges against Judge Zurek, the notabene of the person who was just stabbed. You can't call it that otherwise. By right-wing media. Ladies and gentlemen, there are moments... After all, for many years the judges have spoken substantively, almost not seen in being political. Well, I guess something like that happened that those judges had to. I'm finally gonna get back to you. It was the society that said to them, "Advertise yourselves," the one that was manifesting on the streets, but also all those groups that thought it was bad. The environment itself insisted on the National Court, on the Supreme Court, on various kinds of lawyers' associations Or an association of judges, so that the courts stand by... that these organizations stand up for the independence of the courts. And when judge Żurek speaks about it, in my opinion, he is simply doing his duty, just as the KRS is doing its duty, defending the independence of the courts. And that's it. Actually, I'm ending up without a punch line, but I think the punch line will be here any minute when we get the draft new bill from the president. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u91	The next speaker is Senator Blackbay. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. I'm joining those thank-yous. I thank Judge Dariusz Zawistowski because we all know whether we are from the Law and Justice or from the Platform, how we work in a situation of constant chaos. And you're causing this fuss. Therefore, great thanks for the fact that the KRS still works and fights for the remnants of democracy in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, the mechanism is as follows. Polish society in the polls is simply expressed: we have many reservations about the justice system, briefly speaking. So what should every normal person who listens to the voice of society do with justice? There are, like, two extreme methods. One is: it is best to throw out those who are, and put yours in, because it is a guarantee of improving the quality of the judiciary. And there's the second method I asked your judge today. He showed that the Polish justice system is not at the forefront of European countries when it comes to evaluation, but it is also not at the end, but rather in the middle of a peleton, which does not mean that it should not be improved. Well, one of the elements of the repair is the expenditure that the judge was talking about. If we have EUR 60 per capita and EUR 500 per capita in Ireland, we are obviously at a different level of economic development. But to these questions You have to answer yourself, you have to answer questions about independence and independence. If all the laws that passed through the High House were moving towards a total strengthening of the Ministry of Justice, I will simply ask my colleagues from Law and Justice: would you like to see the Minister of Justice and the Prosecutor General in Poland, an MEP, and also someone who offers everything related to the National Council, the Supreme Court, be a politician of the Civic Platform? I wouldn't. And you guys are just saying, "Okay!" Minister Ziobro is the kind of guy who's gonna keep in check and the Supreme Court, and the KRS, and the judges... etc., etc. And you, too. I want to say I don't know if you know this. What is the statistics after the first year of our functioning in Poland, in which we got up from our knees. The Senate has adopted the biggest, one of the biggest... It's about the amount of law. I think we've got over 100,000 cards. A4 new law. We know how it is created: at night in the Seym, in the morning in the Senate and forward. The judge said that in the UK, two years are planned. I'm not talking about two minutes... There, two years are planned, which laws on the judiciary and other areas will enter into the proceedings of the High House. You want to make the entire justice system subject to politicians. I really enjoyed Mr. Marcin Matczak's statement, perhaps a professor who used a fantastic comparison. We're not gonna talk about top-shelf comparisons here. It was a simple comparison. I think you'll appreciate them and understand them, and then you'll spread your knowledge. Well, the professor compares what you do in Polish judiciary... The professor has great news for Legion fans: unfortunately, the coach will not be the judge, but the president of the club. And that's exactly what you want. You want a judge who's supposed to be independent, independent, appointed president of the club and the president to tell him what more sentences should be given. This is the way to nowhere. This will neither improve the opinion of Poles about the justice system nor improve the functionality of the system. I asked the professor if there were any initiatives on what to do to make a difference, to increase the amount and number of people serving the judge, etc. That's the statistics you gave the judge. There's no discussion going on because you're going the easy way. I will quote here a classic: it is decided to abolish the existing judicial authorities, replacing them with courts chosen on the basis of democratic elections. I think some of the elderly know who said that. It was said by Vladimir Iljicz Lenin in 1917. See: so many years have passed and it is still similar. You say we change the staff and we'll be okay. This is the way you're going. And the fact that the leading party ideologists are putting this into practice, I am even able to understand, but I am unable to understand that the Senators of Law and Justice who swore on the Constitution are questioning today what concerns the most important legal act in Poland, namely the Constitution. And what a surprise. I have adopted this in the debate That one of the courts wants to apply the constitution directly. He's facing criminal charges for that. If you like it, you have to ask yourself: quo vadis, the Polish Judicial Board? We already know that. Mr Ziobro, Member, Minister, National Prosecutor, was to be the one who conducted the Supreme Court and the National Court. Do you like such Poland? You have nothing to say now, dear Senators of Law and Justice. And what can the citizen say, who will go to the courtroom, where the judgment will be handed down by his neighbor in Law and Justice? We know what's gonna happen to him if he gets a print. There are two more elements. It's about what the judge said in the report, about three models of the operation of cases. One didn't come in, and the other... What kind of planning are we talking about here, how we're gonna correct the judicial system, if everything's done wrong, without a head, without an idea? Now the President has proposed how it is often commented on the Internet, the fourth way of appealing. We'll keep appealing the decision. There will be a complete extension of time limits and we will not achieve what Poles are waiting for, and Poles are waiting for a clear improvement in the functioning of the system and a shortening of court proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude by quoting another commentator who wrote that Mr Kaczyński, Mr Duda, Mr Ziobro, Mr Mularczyk and Mr Piotrowicz are by education lawyers, but no one has as much contempt for obeying the law as those mentioned. And I turn once again to the Senators of Law and Justice: Ladies, get off your knees, wake up, don't go the straight way to ordering the Polish courts to submit to politicians. Even if they are the smartest politicians in Poland, let us not go in this direction. It always ended badly and you'll see that this time it's going to end badly. Therefore, as long as we have time to reflect, we must answer the question: quo vadis, Polish? Let us not go in such a way that everything concerning judicial problems, including the selection of judges and everything that the judge, President Zawistowski, spoke about, is decided by politicians. And that's why I'm addressing you again: get off your knees and see what it looks like... what true democracy should look like according to the patterns of many, many countries who also had problems with the functioning of the judiciary, but have dealt with them. So let's look for these solutions. Finally, I would like to say this: the state, using the opinion of Poles about Polish courts, draws out two, three, four cases, and yet untrue, you promote them in public space for money from companies of the Treasury and wonder that Poles protest and protest... [[Time's up, Senator.]] ...against such methods. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u93	You've got a voice, Senator Bang.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! At first, I must say that it is difficult to disagree with Senator Blackbay. Indeed, we, the Senators of Law and Justice, would not want the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General, or the Member of the Civic Platform. I'm going to the point. Ladies and gentlemen, this report on the activities of the National Judicial Council coincides with the process of judicial reform. Yesterday, President Andrzej Duda brought in his designs. I think that deep and good reform of the Polish judiciary is still possible. Already in the explanatory memorandum, the President highlights two fundamental phenomena that this reform is trying to deal with. First of all, these are social aspects of the justice system, so it is a very common sense of injustice which is happening in Polish courts. It's not against appearances, it's against what the senator did. ♪ Blackbeard said ♪ Some individual, demonized by us and exaggerated matters. Every parliamentarian on a daily basis A parliamentarian of Law and Justice may even particularly For years, there has been a huge amount of harm in Polish courts. And this is the harm that cries out for help and does not receive it out of nowhere, because the procedures are so designed that in no way openly unjust, and the final judgments cannot be touched. And that's why I hopefully look at these ideas related to the emergency complaint. It was indeed a flaw, a significant lack of our projects. And this is where the President comes up against the expectations of our electorate, also referring to our program. And the second sphere of issues that we are trying to regulate in this reform, also very related to the moderation and functioning of the National Judicial Council, is the real formation of the three divisions of power that the Polish Constitution provides for, because for the past few decades in Poland it has somehow been strange that the judicial authority from this system of three divisions of power, where the authorities are to control each other, inhibit each other, watch over each other, de facto went to the level of some superpower, beyond any social, political, disciplinary control. We all know what those disciplinary actions were like. Statistics speak for themselves. We're really trying to bring this back to balance, to the balance that the constitution is talking about. It cannot be that in the democratic state there is a power that controls itself, evaluates itself, promotes itself, chooses, disciplines, absolves, punishes, etc. Under the influence of these reforms nothing will happen with the primal values to be governed by Polish courts, nothing will happen with independence, with independence, with the case law of the Polish courts. On the contrary, it is intended to increase, raise all these standards so that this basic value Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, It was wider, better and more widely implemented. That's it, maybe that's it. I am surprised to see this huge resistance of the judge's community to not only these reforms, but all reforms. I am surprised to hear from the representatives of the elite, the community of judges, words of arrogance, boots, separation from the affairs and lives of ordinary people. The best example is the famous statement of Judge Gersdorf, who described the judicial profession as princely. Therefore, it is difficult for princes to lean down to talk to society, explain something to society. The judges aren't used to talking to the people. And it's very bad. Because it's also archaic, completely unconventional of modern times. It is also very strange to allow the judicial community to enter, very deep, very strong, very determined, into politics. Because what is different is expressing your positions, your views, and what else is participation in demonstrations against a democratically elected government alongside the leaders of political parties, associations which clearly call for the overthrow of the Polish government and often in an undemocratic way. And the symbol of this depolitication of judges is you, Judge Żurek, spokesperson of the National Courts Council. Notabene was very symbolic of how once, at the meeting of the Legislative Commission, Judge Żurek threatened us, the senators, to be careful about what we adopt, because it's all recorded, it's all recorded and it'll be remembered. And paradoxically, on the day when he said this, when the committee was sitting, the President of the Court of Appeals in Krakow was brought in handcuffs, accused of gigantic corruption crimes. I think it was a very interesting symbolism. To conclude, I wish the National Council of Judicial Affairs that in the years to come, it may pay more attention to these supreme values of the judiciary, to the protection of which it is called, and to the less jealously guard its political empire. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u95	You have the voice of Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! We are debating today the report of the 2016 National Council of Courts. I think that the last council formed democratically, because by looking at the presidential drafts of the Supreme Court laws, and in particular the National Council of Judicial Affairs, I have the impression that the appointment of the Council will be the domain of politicians, and this already conflicts with the sacred principle of the threefold division of power and independence of executive, legislative and judicial authority. The judicial authority is not some third power, it is one of the three authorities, as important as the other two. Thanking the National Judicial Council for its difficult work in 2016, one can be tempted to state, with full conviction that the National Council has fulfilled the obligation under Article well. 186 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, i.e. the obligation to protect the independence of courts and independence of judges. Of the many competences of the Council, in the earlier part of today's debate, during the course of questions, three areas of competence... The problem was dominated by cases involving the appointment of judges. And here we have to remind you, we have to go back to the issue of not having to work in courts, which, after all, significantly affects the efficiency and speed of proceedings in courts, in particular regional and district courts. This must raise doubts and questions as to why 1850 jobs are not planted. And yet, as we recall, Law and Justice went to the electoral campaign with the demand to improve the work of courts, speed up proceedings. After all, these unexploded jobs could certainly improve this efficiency. Very often there were issues in the debate concerning issues related to the opinion of legislative acts, normative acts by the National Council. It's a big and responsible job. We have mentioned that very many drafts concerning changes in codes, including those relating to the state system, are prepared in a sloppy, incompetent way, can be said, in an inadequate way, and yet they concern an important sphere, they concern the state system, citizens' rights and codes. It must wake this up with regard to those in power, with regard to the state, unfortunately, such a citizens' fear that the camp of power does not fully control this space, that this legislative chaos, this inflation of the law is detrimental to every citizen, although in different ways. It is also important to note the activities of the National Council in relation to the opinion of such important laws as the Constitutional Tribunal Act or the Act which combined the powers of the Prosecutor General and the Minister for Justice. Of course, this is about a negative opinion, with which we fully agree as a Platform Club. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to give an opinion and consult, in particular with the National Judicial Council, on the most important draft laws. And here, of course, there are huge deficits as to the way, the quality, the pace of these actions. We are now witnessing a consultation conducted by the President of the Republic of Poland, Andrzej Duda. Of course, consultation is too serious because these meetings with real consultations have nothing to do with it. It is rather a spectacle calculated a little on internal tensions in the power camp, in the camp of Law and Justice, a little on public use, that in these important spaces the president asks, and we know well that he does not ask. I can describe a real consultation. I can say that the most important laws in the state were consulted during the previous term, during the term of office of President Komorowski, because I was a participant in this consultation. And I will tell you that the most important laws, such as the Constitutional Court Act, were consulted with all relevant political and substantive actors at the stage of writing the law, as well as with the environment. Representatives of parliamentary clubs were invited to the meetings. On behalf of Law and Justice, Mr Andrzej Duda, current president, took part in the consultation. The representatives of the clubs received a draft law asking them to make their substantive comments on this project within a month so that, after the opinion of the parliamentary majority has already been received, this project could be sent to the Supreme Court, to the National Council of Courts and to other institutions which should express their opinion on such a matter. What is happening right now with regard to the consultation of laws has nothing to do with a real consultation. This is, as I said, a political theater calculated as a result of an internal party in a commanding camp. I hope that the final result of the work on the Act on the National Judicial Council will be the irony that judges to the National Judicial Council are elected by judges, not politicians, although we know very well that, according to the draft law, politicians will decide which judge will go to and who will not go to the National Judicial Council. This is, in principle, incompatible with the Constitution. And so the project vetoed by the President in July as well as the current President's proposal, which equips Parliament with this competence to elect judges, is also unconstitutional. And that must be said openly: the President is putting forward projects that are, in principle, incompatible with the Constitution. I hope that the High House, the Senate, will not lay hands on the corruption of the law and will join in with the request contained in the report of the National Council. In fact, according to the law, in accordance with Article. 4 Act on the National Court Register That he will join the request for respect for the principle of three divisions of power and, at the same time, to the High Chamber and earlier to the Sejm, the request for constitutionality of the principle of three divisions of the legislative, executive and judicial powers, with particular regard to the position of the courts and judges and the political position of the National Judicial Council as a constitutional body of the State, the guardian of the independence of the judges and the independence of the courts. I appeal to the senators, in particular the Law and Justice, because it is you who will be the majority to decide on the solutions concerning the National Judicial Council, so that you do not put your hand to the destruction of the rule of law, so that you do not put your hand in order that the common achievements of the generations of Poles, the generations who have built a modern, independent Republic, based on the division of power... do not put your hand to the spoiling of our common acquis. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u97	You have a voice, Senator Blackbay, for the second time, so you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. My name came up in Senator Burns's speech, so let me say two more words so the senator can understand what I meant, because maybe I wasn't very clear. I didn't talk about it, Mr. Senator, Dear Mark, that focusing 5 different functions, including 3 authorities, in one hand is good for the Civic Platform policy. I wouldn't want that either. And I'm glad you don't want that either. I understand that you do not want this for every politician, including the Law and Justice. You didn't say that, but I understand it was an oversight, just as your entire speech was overlooked. Excuse me... A few facts. You were talking about balance. I'm not gonna read the whole thing here, I'm just gonna read to you that balance is a stable set of opposing forces about values. Is what you're proposing a balance between the forces of the three divisions of power? One senator said today during the debate: let us not exaggerate what three divisions of power do not always need to be applied. Something like that. And that is why I would like to use, once again, the elements that will move things wrong, to put an end to things that are bad and to improve everything that needs to be improved. And quoting from some speech that arrogance, a shoe... This has nothing to do with the desire to improve the Polish judiciary. And again, for 10,000 people working in the judiciary, judges, you're quoting one case when someone stole there, etc., a reprehensible case that should be branded. Is this an argument for such destruction of the Polish judiciary? Then answer the question, how many senators in 25 years of independent Poland broke the law, behaved unworthy. So? Can we do that? And why doesn't there be a proposal to bring even greater consequences to those who behave unethically or wrongly or do something else? Your thinking goes in this direction: we will propose that the judge will be up to 60 years old for women, up to 65 years for men. Well, we want sovereign decisions. If so, I propose, Senator and Ladies and Gentlemen: let's start with each other. So here's what I'm proposing: women senator and MPs at the age of 60 retired, senators and MPs at the age of 65 retired. I'm not talking about the government anymore. Well, let's not be the smartest in the world anymore, that only judges... And that's how you choose problems. The problem and show it as a phenomenon. That's not how you build conclusions based on probability, Senator. These are individual cases that may possibly confirm the rule, but in what you said, it's totally messed up. And once again, the balance is a stable system of opposing forces as to the value. So, not that politicians in Poland, unlike those from other countries of the European Union, will be the wisest, choose judges and tell you what to do, how to do, how many years you have to work, etc., etc. Well, even in Law and Justice there aren't enough Einsteins to decide about the Polish judicial system. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u99	You have the voice of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u100	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the President for the report and for having answered the senators' questions in such detail and in substance. But I want to thank the entire National Judicial Council, and please pass on this thank you, because I'm sure My fear is almost certainly bordering here. This is the last report of this National Judicial Council. The next National Council, although it will retain the same name, will be another advice. This will be the advice in which the principle of balancing the three divisions of the authorities will be affected, because regardless of what project goes through, each of these projects It is likely that politicians, i.e. MEPs, will elect judges to the National Courts Council today. Thus, the reform, which was introduced by the Law of 20 December 1989 and which had as its principle the separation... of the influence of politicians on the judiciary, i.e. the introduction of the principle of independence of courts, this situation will already be in the past. The National Council, which has the essential competence to appoint judges, will consist not only of this political part, i.e. Members, Senators and a representative of the Minister of Justice and the President, but also of... It's clear to me. Those who obey politicians will be chosen. Because the one who chooses gets paid. And the one who chooses is influential. It's clear to me. It has created a completely curiosity situation in formal terms. In the Sejm there will be a process of two new laws on the National Judicial Council and the Supreme Court Act, whose projects were presented by the President At the same time, the veto was neither accepted nor rejected. The further fate of these 2 laws, which have been vetted, is unclear. For the first time something like this happens in the Polish Sejm. First you have to accept or reject the vetoed laws. 'Cause that's the state of suspension. You can't proceed over new laws. It's illogical. Completely illogical from the point of view of the functioning of the Sejm and completely illogical from the point of view of legislative rationality. Yeah, well, you should be right about that. I wonder how this issue will be resolved. So I repeat: first, the presidential veto must be decided. It is not possible to work parallelly on new laws in a situation where the veto is not settled. At the National Judicial Council and all, various defilements were cast on the courts. There were various examples, individual examples, which were multiplied by 10,000. Because there are dozens of such situations in the year, and there are about 10,000 judges. And some reprehensible example, some examples of which were dozens, so that he would be universal and that judges could be charged, had to be multiplied by at least a few thousand. This shows what it was like to prepare for changes in the judiciary and basically to destroy the judiciary. Several hundred judges are uninhabited. And it's not because of the courts, and it's not because of the National Judicial Council, there are 400 positions at all levels. This is already a problem in common courts. But in appeals or district courts where there are far fewer judges than in common courts... The absence of several dozen judges in the appeal is already a problem, because these are small courts in terms of the number of judges, very important courts, but with much less staff than regional courts. 400 vacant posts on account of the Minister of Justice who does not propose that these posts be filled by the National Council The National Council cannot announce the competition without informing the Commission that the position has become vacant, that the post has become vacant. And more than 100 judges working at the Ministry of Justice. This is the rift that also causes problems with chronicity. I also say, because chronicity does not only involve personal matters, but also involves procedural matters. A different rule has been introduced concerning the procedure before the courts. She's gone. This new rule was intended to simplify and speed up the issuing of judgments. And now we're back to what's been going on under the motto of improving the courts. This is not about improving the courts, it is about bringing the courts under the Law and Justice. It's about that and it's about that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u101	You've got a voice, Senator Bang. This is the second performance, so five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I am very brief in relation to Senator Czarnobaj's words, because certain things must be repeated several times. I appeal all the time to the control and balance mechanisms of the authorities. In English, checks and balances are a concept of conscious separation of power between each other's controlling authorities. And all the time I talk about one thing and the same thing: in the three divisions of the authorities, all our authorities, legislators and executives, control each other and inhibit each other, but no one controls the judicial authority. I think that's against the constitution. And you just need to restore that control. Continuing in our legal order such a system that one authority is completely alienated, cannot be defended. And really saying that these are individual cases, that's not an argument for defending this system, because it's by definition so constructed that it's going to degenerate. If we in the Senate agreed that we were going to choose ourselves, at the end of our term we judge ourselves and then we choose ourselves again, then who would say that this is a good and forward-looking system for Poland? So that's it. With regard to this mechanism of balance and division of authorities, I will defend this view that judicial authority can also be controlled in certain respects by legislative authority and executive authority, all the more so as many systems in Europe operate this way and nothing terrible happens to the justice system there. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Senator, I'll tell you during the break...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u103	You have a voice, Senator Comfort. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u104	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! We could hear today how the situation of the judiciary is perceived, from the mouth of a person who, not only in relation to his professional way, namely being a judge, but also because he is in a special place at the National Judicial Council, is empowered to analyze the actions of the judiciary. This image, which emerges from the President's reply, is truly appalling to me in the context of the events of this summer. Well, we have an unprecedented attack of the fourth power, the media, and a very large number of politicians on the third power in the media area. We are dealing with movements around the justice system, which show that the whole system built for generations, for years, based on experience and patterns taken from other democracies, is thus trying to break down and lead to disregulation. We've got one too. No matter who won the battle today, e.g. in the Constitutional Court, to deal with the consequences, i.e. Policy actions have already led to the situation that we do not have the certainty of justice. This is probably the worst thing that could happen to the justice system. The fact that citizens, moreover, are not entirely sure about what legal environment they live in. I believe that this is the saddest achievement of 2016. At the same time, the public is constantly empathetic with the mirage of change. Why do I call these actions mirage or sham action? We have heard about this today, and if someone is dealing with justice, he simply knows that when it comes to what should or can help citizens, i.e. speeding up procedures, we did not have a single initiative in this regard. We were faced with a blockage to this extent, and it was at that time, because one of the first initiatives of this government was to reverse the reform of Gowin, which was supposed to give us, at least in assumptions, speed up judgment and facilitate access to justice. This was done without the slightest analysis of the functioning of this reform, which lasted less than a year. No one even tried to see whether it had actually accelerated or not the justice system. And here we are dealing with this paradox: man's work is thrown into the trash, but man himself is made vice prime minister in his own government. This is quite an interesting idea of political play, but it has nothing to do with taking care of the justice system. We heard. These are hard numbers; this is not my assessment or the assessment of the opposition How many vacancies are there in the courts. Well, that's an intimidating number. So? We are fighting this problem, which means we are fighting the problem of the lack of justice, in such a way that we do not appoint judges, that we are blocking their employment where people wait for years... What do we give to society in return? Yeah, well, we politicians are gonna be able to nominate a president. Will that help anyone and speed things up? Well, I'm sorry, but I haven't heard a single sentence about how it's in any way... Please note how many mistakes must have been made in this way of reasoning about the justice system and in all these actions, how many ruins it must have been in order for the President, the President, who has so far been presented caricatureally As the one who practically signs everything. Please note what these projects must have led to, the extent of the threat to the entire justice system and the legal space in which we live and which is to give us care and security, which must have happened if the President vetoed these laws and went to the war on justice. So? You want us to leave this without any reflection? Are we to comment on the President's actions only in such a way that these are political games? I don't want to take that narration. Just as I listen to the Justice Department... If you listen to what they're saying and think about it, it might turn out that that's exactly what they're bringing the President's movement to. What's that? We suddenly have this alternative: or it is that the ruling majority today has led to the choice of a man who only plays political, mechanical and instrumental games using the justice system, or it is that we are dealing with a sequence of events. Laws and amendments That even a representative of this majority could not bear to see the overall picture of what was happening. Is that so? You have to ask yourself that question. If we answer this question yes, then we would have to start wondering whether all these changes really make sense when it comes to helping the justice system, making it start to be functional and functional. Because it's not that there are mistakes and that we're at a point where it gets worse and worse... [[Time's up.]] I would just like to say that this also applies to the last two years. It's not just what was before... Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u105	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. Senator Czarnobaj would like to express his opinion in a correction mode. Three minutes max. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u106	Mr. Marshal, even less. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. That knowledge is strict knowledge, which is why I've decided to say two words about what Senator Pięk said. Senator Pięk was kind to say, pointing to my statement, about the mechanism of control and balance checks and balances. Of course, he only read the first sentence of this whole important passage, namely that the concept of conscious separation of power between each other's controlling organs... And here is the reason that this is the legislative and executive power that is completely impossible to control the judicial authority. The second sentence reads as follows: this idea is related to the idea of the division of power expressed in the constitutions of many countries; the aim is to prevent any authority from subjugating or deceiving others. That's the whole part about what Senator Pęk was talking about, and that's what you said about the whole control thing. After all, ladies and gentlemen, there is something else to control. What's going on here today The debate, the presentation of the President, the discussion of the National Judicial Council, in which there are representatives of the legislative and executive bodies, concerns control, and what Senator Pęk is talking about is submission. This is the small, how significant in practice, the difference. So I'd like to ask the senator. Maybe at break I'll tell him not to confuse control with submission. What we are talking about today is the control of the activities of the KRS and the Polish courts. Their submission is a slightly different area That's what you want to do. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u107	Thank you. The discussion is closed. Would you like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches? Yes? [[Chairman of the National Judicial Council Dariusz Zawistowski: Mr. Marshal, very briefly, because I know that time...]] Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u108	Thank you very much for listening to this report and for the questions asked. I hope that at least in part I responded to them, and I tried to do it. It's the way I could. I would first of all like to thank you for your cooperation, for your cooperation with Parliament. I don't know if she had the perfect dimension, but... This is certainly the last report I tabled before Parliament because, if nothing It won't change, I'm finishing my term on the council in March. So I won't have a chance like this again. Thank you so much for your cooperation. I would just ask that in the work that will take place in the Senate, in the event that these acts concern the judiciary, the fundamental values that we have been talking about here today, namely the compatibility of the rules with the constitution and respect for the three divisions of power. These are the foundations of the rule of law. These are not only the foundations of our country, but also the European Union. Let me remind you that the democratic rule of law is the fundamental value of the Union. I hope that... in matters of the system, because that's what we're talking about here, this element should always be seen. I understand that there may be different approaches, but in a situation where there are serious doubts, there is always the possibility of appealing, for example. to the knowledge of experts. If there is any doubt As to whether or not a solution corresponds to the constitution... I would appeal to such experts in such situations. That's always the right thing to do. And one more thing we were talking about here. There's always a need for a conversation, a discussion. If you don't talk about something, you don't discuss something, it's hard to come up with a good solution. It seems to me that the will to cooperate is always on both sides, because we care about the common good, which is precisely the rule of law. I think everyone's gonna agree. The divergent assessments that appear do not indicate that there is no such will, because all judges are pro-state. I'd suggest we consider that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u109	Thank you. I thank Mr Dariusz Zawistowski, President of the National Judicial Council, for providing the Senate with information. I state that the Senate took note of information about the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2016. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws. The text of the act is in print No. 596, and the report of the committee In print No 596 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Robert Gawl, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will present a report on the meeting of the Senate Committee on Infrastructure, which discussed the amendment of the law on road traffic and certain other laws. The meeting took place on 20 September. First thing. The assumptions and objectives of the bill were presented by Mr Karol Okoński, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization. The aim of the Act is to speed up the entry into force of the amendments of 24 July 2015 in the area of the Central Registration of Vehicles and Drivers, i.e. the so-called. CPiK. The system is to start operating from 13 November this year. The rules are divided into three parts. The first is the statutory regulations for the central registration of vehicles. These are the rules of payment for tests, recording in the system of each test vehicle technical test. This is important information for each insurer and possible buyer of the vehicle. In addition, the project clarifies the scope of the data to be entered into the CEPiK, as regards OC contracts, material damage, approval and registration sets. It obliges the Insurance Guarantee Fund to provide information on material damage also in the case of uninsured cars, which has not yet taken place. From 13 November, the Insurance Guarantee Fund will receive data collected in the central register of drivers in order to effectively combat insurance crime and eliminate damage. The Border Guard will be able to keep the registration evidence without having to involve other services. The second part of the change concerns the elimination of legal barriers so that entrepreneurs can use the data available on the Public Data Portal free of charge and through applications. On the other hand, the third part concerns the clearance of the accounts of the registration fees collected so that the overpayments that are collected by the record keeping entities can be reimbursed quickly. In the next part, the senators asked questions. The questions concerned 3 cases: registration documents to create their electronic version, miniaturise these documents, limit the need for replacement after the spaces on the vehicle inspection box have been exhausted and eliminate non-existent vehicles from the system. The Ministry's response was promising because the changes... In general, the trend is to introduce more and more so-called. mDocuments. Of course, also requests for miniaturisation are or will be taken into account in the future. The next item of the committee meeting was attended by a representative of the Senate Legislative Office. The Bureau has tabled an amendment proposal in Article. 3 Act to clearly separate matter concerning the entry into force of legislation from the application of the rules to certain categories of entities. The government's position in this regard was unfavorable. Then a representative of the Warsaw Vehicle Control Station Association took the floor. Two things are bothering this association. Firstly, the inability to enter data in their opinion when the IT system would fail. Secondly, they wondered why the fee was first charged and then the technical examination followed. The Ministry's representative replied to these questions. He said the rules have been in force since the basic law. This project is another step in the delivery of the CEPiK system, in this case the central driver register. Art. 80b and 80c are talking about an emergency data input system. If the system is not working, simply enter the data in the notebook or in the appropriate form and then enter it into the system when the system starts. Art. 82 is improved and enters into force on 13 November. The Ministry considers that it is appropriate to charge a fee before proceeding with the examination and that it will eliminate technical tourism. After these explanations, the chairman of the committee, Senator Stanisław Rogut, ordered the vote. 8 Senators Everyone present in the O.R. It was in favour of adopting the proposal without amendments. End of report. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u111	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Piotr Florek and then Marshal Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u112	Mr. Senator, first question... [[The microphone's not working.]] Does it work now? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] The lamp was on fire, but apparently it didn't work. Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator, improving vehicle safety is a very important issue. I have a question: are the proposed changes in the central register of vehicles that will be introduced compatible with... Did we invent it ourselves, or are the same data being entered in the West? Because to improve security, you have to have a base. You need to use not only our databases, but also the databases that are in other countries. Is it similar there? Will these bases be more consistent after the CepiK extension? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u113	Of course, the system implemented in Poland is to be compatible with the European system. There's a module called the CBI. This is a module that allows you to enter the records of other countries. There are countries in this register that already have a modified system. This is Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Estonia, France, Spain, the Netherlands, Lithuania, Latvia, Malta, Germany, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, Sweden and Hungary.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u114	Thank you. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u115	Mr. Senator, there's gonna be extra data moving into the CEPiK. Tell me how the CEPiK works right now. Does it work well, or are there reservations in this regard? I want to say... [[I just want to remind you...]] [[Sorry, Mr. Marshal isn't finished yet.]] If additional data is entered into a malfunctioning system, there may be an even bigger problem. Hence my question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u116	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u117	Mr. Marshal, let's say the system doesn't work the way it should. He's been introduced since 2003. It is 2017 and there is an acceleration in the implementation of the system. The additional data that are needed is fully in line with the European vehicle knowledge standards. I would just like to say that today we have to eliminate more than 11 million cars that actually do not exist and are sort of wandering in systems. The introduction of this system requires cleaning up what is now and modifying it. It's necessary. That's what this bill is for, so we can fully implement this system from November 13th.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u118	Thank you. Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u119	Mr. Senator, as I understand it, the adoption of a law that will introduce additional data into the CEPiK will improve its functioning. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u120	Yes. That's what the Ministry says. You can still ask the minister who's in the courtroom. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u121	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Digitisation has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Today we have Mr. Karol Okoński, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u122	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would just like to confirm the words of the rapporteur's senator. As for the system that is now being implemented, the main requirement... The previous version, which now works, simply no longer adheres to the standards that are expected by citizens, and prevents the creation of e-services that make the data change in real time and thus are up to date at any time. Currently, the data update is asynchronous. Vehicle control stations communicate with the system in the so-called. the batch interface, i.e. only transmit data in appropriate time intervals. All of this causes that... the changes that we're making will allow us to build a base so that we can build more e-services that are also in the scope of the project, and thus make this system just... Data in this system increases turnover... have a chance to increase the safety of traffic, because the citizen, taking data about the vehicle, has a guarantee that these data are simply up-to-date and consistent with the facts. So that all the directions we're talking about here... This stage of the vehicle is part of the plans that the Ministry has in relation to the project, the area of the vehicle and the driver. This next part, regarding the driver, is scheduled for June next year. And after June next year you will be able to say that the basic part of the CEPiK 2.0 project will be finished. So that I thank the senators of the committee very much for supporting this project and also the senators here, I ask for a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u123	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Are there any such questions? Mr. Marshal. There you go. Minister, come back.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u124	I have the same question as before because I want an answer from the Minister. Well, I have some concerns that the introduction of additional data... I thought it might cause bigger problems, because the less data, the less problems. I'm a layman, of course, but I think so. But will you confirm that the introduction of this bill will make the CEPiK work better, more efficiently and those 11 million cars that have been excluded from... thousands or millions? [[Voice from the room: 40 million.]] 40 million? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization Karol Okoński: I mean, no... Maybe I'll complete...]] No? Okay, then. Are these millions of vehicles that have ended in operation somehow functioning in this system, or will they be eliminated in this new situation, or excluded from this system?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u125	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u126	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, it is such that we extend the data scope so that this data can also be used in other operations and, as I have already mentioned, also in e-services made available to citizens, in particular that in the service of the vehicle history or my vehicle is able to present the history of damage to the vehicle or the history of technical testing of the vehicle, something that is not possible at the moment, because and the quality of the data is low The data are entered in different systems that have different data validations, and the synchronization of these data is not carried out in real time. And now, for example. I take as an example the vehicle control station When the station employee enters the data, he will de facto enter them directly into the CEPiK system. Thus, the data that are being entered are consistently subject to the same validations in all vehicle control stations and the system does not allow the input of data which are wrong are additional messages to guide this employee's hand. The same applies to integration with the Insurance Guarantee Fund, where we are also talking about data transmission. So the data range itself as if it doesn't directly affect the complexity of the project. In fact, these are additional connections between systems, hence the scale of the project is larger, but at the very end we just get a set of data that is complete and allows us to make some decisions. whether it is citizens at the time of traffic of used cars, or officers at the time of inspection of the vehicle, or the elderly at the time when they enter the vehicle concerned. They simply have a guarantee that the data they display on the screen is correct and their quality is also appropriate.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u127	Thank you, Minister. Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u128	One more question. Who's gonna pay? Will the companies also bear the costs? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization Karol Okoński: Which costs, Mr. Marshal?]] Otherwise... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Digitalization Karol Okoński: Because the system itself is built for money...]] Will there be any additional costs associated with this bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u129	No. The project is being implemented... I.e. the costs of implementing the project are covered by the so-called. The CepiK Objective Fund, which was built just to implement this system and not to charge extra for the budget. So that de facto it is financed from those additional fees which are charged for policy or research, which form a budget, which is later spent on IT changes. Therefore, from the perspective of the state budget at this point in time, this project does not generate additional costs.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u130	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. I don't see any more... Mr. Senator... [[Sit down, sit down.]] Thank you, Minister. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. [[Voice from the room: No one signed up...]] Mr. Senator Pekkis to discuss... Yes? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u131	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to take this opportunity to thank you. Giant work is done by people associated with the Ministry of Digitalization, not just those working there. There are some shortcomings in the baggage of previous years. I'm not just talking about previous years, I'm talking about earlier years. It's a base that doesn't completely agree to a reality that's just chaotic. We have such a fundamental problem that there are more than 40 million vehicles on this base, of which there are a little more than 11 million vehicles operating physically on the market. In other words, we probably have a whole bunch of dead souls who haven't known much about what to do over the years, so they didn't do anything. Therefore, a new base is being developed, which is based on the latest technical thought of IT specialists. And this, frankly, is the best in the country. This is very important because these are systems that aren't based on simple typing and moving, they're not the conventional databases we're used to, but these are matrix databases. Operation on them allows to detect not only incorrect entries, but also incorrect facts. I was at one of the meetings on CEPiK 2.0 in the Ministry of Digitalization, where it was shown how the fraud of using documents and permits for so-called ones is caught on the basis of the data entered. Grandpa. Which means a son or grandson uses, for example. permit the carriage of dangerous goods by heavy goods vehicles. Because it turns out the owner of this document has... [[He's dead.]] Yeah, because he's over 90 years old, and yet he still drives a truck and goes through all the tests, and he also has eagle eyesight, fantastic hearing and predispositions that enable him to drive a truck with dangerous materials. And that's the job these people are doing. Not much, they're very open-minded. It must also be said out loud, because it is very rare to talk about it. For any suggestions. In the automotive industry, there are not only those industries that we know, i.e. not only those directly interested in marketing and guarding the movement of cars, trucks and other special vehicles, etc. There is also a new market, relatively new for Poland, recycling market. Today, for example. The situation is that if we want to scrape off an old car, we have to go to a company that scrapes it, we get a document there, and with this breaking document we go back to the county office, where we have to confirm this fact. It takes an extra day. The nearest future will be that people who will serve the Polish citizen will carry out all the necessary administrative procedures for him. The important thing is that this new base will have access to the service. In other words, very often the documents that we carry with us today and which we need to show on call will be completely unnecessary in the age of computerization, will be online, i.e. up to date on this very base. Not to mention what is one of the key reasons for the joy of this new base, i.e. that in the next few years our society will probably no longer have a problem, common in Poland, with the shooting of meters. Because vehicles that are registered with us and that drive... One of the biggest problems of Poles buying a used car is to determine how much this car has already passed. This base. I know that there are rather advanced conversations going on. It is to be connected to international databases where vehicles are registered, cars registered for the first time outside our country. The Germans are doing it very intensively now. It's the so-called. Carfax system. That's exactly what they're doing this year. In other words, when you bring a car from abroad, you will be able to quickly determine what is the actual mileage of this car, which is its value and usefulness for use. And to those people who do this for us at the Ministry of Digitalization, I would like to thank you very much here. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u132	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act amending the Social Assistance Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 597, and the report of the Commission In print No 597 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Antoni Szymański, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u133	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have the honour to present a short report on behalf of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. Briefly, because this is an amendment involving three articles, which did not raise much controversy and great discussion at the committee meeting. The proposal to adopt the law without amendments was supported by six senators and three senators abstained. The Act was adopted by the Sejm on 15 September of this year. The amendment of the Social Assistance Act amends it in the section relating to the payment of the social assistance home, giving entitlement to exemption from this fee indicated by the category of entities and introducing the possibility of exemption from this charge from the office. According to the justification of the project, the purpose of the adopted regulation is to support members of the Veterans' Corps Walk for Independence of the Republic of Poland, whose own functioning is hindered due to age, illness or disability, and therefore they are staying in or applying to such a house. The legislator aims to ensure that these persons can be released, in part or in full, from the payment of the social security fee It's either of your own motion or at your request. What was the discussion at the committee meeting, and what was it focused on? The main concern was whether these persons could be exempt from their own charges and treated as a mandatory rule, or whether this was possible, taking into account the budgetary situation, the material situation of the local government. However, it was clear from the government's explanations that the adoption of solutions that would require those persons to be exempt from the social housing charges would result in a very significant increase in the number of these people in the future, as well as in the cost increase, and since this is the task of local self-government, this solution was introduced, which was, as I said at the beginning, adopted by the majority of the Senate Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. The Act is to enter into force within 14 days of its adoption. We also asked about the costs of this project. Currently there are about 1 000 people in social assistance homes who would be entitled to this, which would generate about PLN 10 million throughout the country in a year. So the costs aren't very high. In the distribution to local governments of the whole country seems small, possible to carry. Well, as I said, these changes are generally supported. Members who abstained also supported the direction of these changes and expressed their acceptance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u134	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Florek, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u135	I'm not on this committee, but I've listened to this report and I remember you saying that it's 900 people, about 1,000 people. That's the scale, and we're talking about the veterans who fought for independence. Well, there's a group we obviously need to appreciate. My question is something else. As I recall, in social services homes one place is a cost of PLN 2,000 800, maybe PLN 3,000. Well, maybe that's changed now, but I guess that's the cost. So I understand that there must be an additional payment for this stay at the help home. Someone has to pay, and you said in this report that local governments will be paying extra. Yes? Then my question is: why should local governments pay more and not pay more from the state budget? Was there a discussion about this? But they are veterans who deserve to fight for independence, not fighting somewhere locally, in some small town or municipality, for example. The municipal authority would pay for this. So, my question is, who... Was such a discussion and who is about to be paid? Of course, it is right to pay more, but who will make these payments.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u136	Okay, thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u137	Mrs. Marshal, Mr. and Mrs. Senators, I explained in my report, although I may not have said very clearly that this is what the discussion was about, questions were asked. But the government also explained the situation. Shouldn't it be so that these people are mandatoryly released, at low cost... However, since these are the own tasks of the municipalities, this solution was considered appropriate. And that's why the committee is proposing to adopt this solution, these three articles that change the social assistance bill, without amendment. In addition, no amendments were tabled during the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u138	There you go, Senator Rulewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u139	That's the question that has something to do with the last one. In connection with this law, there is a specific bid to ensure the right authority of the veterans, so as not to say, privileged. However, this dissonance is due to the fact... And here's the question of whether it's the right thing to do on the one hand. In my opinion, partially entitled, the issue of war reparations from Germany for the population, including of course for the veterans, and on the other hand, making savings, and this is such a special saving, in ensuring a peaceful old age in social assistance homes. And second question. At the committee meeting, because I was not all over, was there a case that was placed here on the occasion of the anti-communist opposition law, the character of the dignity of the witness? We're talking about these veterans staying or staying in these houses under, say, special rights. My question is this: shouldn't it be in this respect to create veteran houses in which there would be other standards and other funding opportunities?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u140	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u141	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, the first issue, the problem of war reparations, which is currently being discussed in Poland, was not raised at the committee meeting. This question in the discussion did not appear in any way, so that this is a new thread that you raise here. He may be present in the senator's speeches, but he didn't come forward during the committee meeting. Also what you're talking about in the second question, which is veterans' houses and this particular concern... This particular concern in these legal arrangements seems to be expressed, which does not mean that it cannot develop in the future. These 3 articles amending the Social Assistance Act were accepted and the discussion was not going in the direction you were talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u142	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] Thank you very much. The bill was introduced by the government and Members. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Today we have Minister Elżbieta Bojanowska, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Would the Minister like to speak? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Senator Rulewski. You're welcome. Minister, come in. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u143	Minister, I hope that you have pointed out my second question, concerning the creation of a specific standard of assistance, such as veteran houses, which would at least allow not so much segregation of persons as to give proper respect to these people. Is the government doing something about it, thinking about it? And the second question concerns the stinginess of the government, which says: yes, we agree, but let the government pay for all this and organize it. And the question is about organization. If it's gonna be, I'd say, a certain authority, something positive. I don't want to say privilege. Isn't there going to be an additional, ugly, demand for this kind of service in the veteran environments? And we know the helphouses aren't cool today. Which means that the bill discussed here in relation to those who are candidates for such a house of help may be vain, empty.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u144	Wait a minute, Minister. Mr. Senator Szymanski, then Mr. Senator Czerwiński and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u145	Mrs Marshal, Minister, High Izbo, I would like to ask you a question about how this draft committee of government and government opinion was given, what was its position on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u146	Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u147	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, we have here the division of a general group of veterans into 2 categories: those who are in the corps of veterans, and those who are not. One category is in a sense distinguished, very, and the other category is not. Why did you go this way, not that way, for example? to a whole group of veterans apply some kind of authority, without distinguishing between veterans and non-vetes? Could you zoom in on a simple word that's different from the other group?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u148	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u149	Mrs. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I answer Senator Rulewski's question. Social services houses, veterans' houses have existed in Poland for many years, for several years. And today there are 910 people in this whole system of social services homes. It's not like the veterans want to be grouped in one place and be in a house like this. So at some point, the veterans' homes, which were meant for veterans, just started to glow empty. As a result, other people began to be treated. And as for the dignity element that you emphasized, the senator... Therefore, this law provides that a combatant may be exempt from payment of those 70% fees for the social services house on request and ex officio. So he won't have to bring it up himself. It's such a bow towards the veterans. Is the government greedy? I'd say it's the opposite. 'Cause if we look at the money we're sending to the veterans through the Veterans' Office, I want to say that in 2007 there were 15 million zlotys of this aid addressed to the Veterans' Office. Unfortunately, from 2008 to 2015 this money was much less. It was 11 million zlotys, then 10 million zlotys. So about 5 million zlotys were cut every year. And the first decision of Minister Rafalska was to return to PLN 15 million to help the combatants. We have therefore returned to the amount of PLN 15 million. [[30 million.]] 15. [[And it was 30.]] It was $15 million. In 2007, as I say, there were 15 million PLN. Then there were 11 million PLN, 10 million PLN, then again 10 million PLN, 10 million PLN, 10 million PLN, and so until 2016, when the said decision returned to the amount of 15 million PLN. Therefore, it is absolutely impossible to speak of our stinginess here. As to the question whether there was an opinion of the Joint Government Commission and of the Territorial Government, yes, that was the opinion. It was, of course, a positive opinion. The joint Commission welcomed the proposed amendment to the Social Assistance Act. At the same time, I would like to say that it was the local government party that requested the introduction of an independent legal basis in the Social Assistance Act to exempt veterans from paying for their stay in the social assistance home. And I answer the last question. We have assumed that they will be members of the independence battle corps, which means at this point we give this power to those who fought with guns in their hands. It is currently a group of about 46 thousand people, of which there are about 32 thousand in Poland, and more than 13 thousand stay abroad. It's hard to tell who's gonna benefit today. In any event, the arm-to-arm element at this point was a pre-emptive element in granting this right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u150	Thank you, Minister. Are there any more questions? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Bojanowska: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I'd like to speak with Senator Jan Filip Libicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u151	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am here a little in reference to the discussion, which concerned the Veterans' Corps of the Walk for Independence of the Republic of Poland, not about this division, but about a slightly different thing, which was also raised by Senator Augustine at the committee meeting, and in fact also on his behalf, because he is not here today. Well, we were discussing whether members of this corps should simply be exempt from social security charges if they were there. The Minister said that this is 46 000 people, some in Poland and 13 000 people abroad, so I assume that people who would benefit from such a social assistance home will not be much. Therefore, I think it would be such a nice gesture to exempt these people from this charge. That's what Senator Augustine was talking about, but because he's not here and he can't formally report this amendment right now, I, on behalf of myself and Senator Augustine, allow myself to pass on this amendment to your marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u152	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that Senator Robert Mamątow has made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing by Senator Jan Filip Libicki and Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? Minister? Thank you. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the consideration of item 14 of the agenda: the Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the State of Israel on social security, signed at Jerusalem on 22 November 2016. The text of the Act is contained in print No 592, and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 592 A and 592 B. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Richard Majer, to present the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the report of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u153	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to present the reports of 2 committees, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, from the committee's deliberations. The committees worked on the Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the State of Israel on social security, signed at Jerusalem on 22 November 2016. The agreement between the Republic of Poland and the State of Israel on social security takes into account international standards in the field of social security. Its rules are based on the basic principles of coordination of equal treatment systems, the preservation of acquired rights and the aggregation of insurance periods. The scope of the contract is covered by Polish maternity benefits, pensions, invalidity pensions, survivor's pensions, one-off compensation and pensions for accidents at work and occupational diseases, as well as funeral allowances, and Israeli maternity benefits, pensions and family benefits, invalidity benefits, accidents at work, funeral allowances covered by social insurance. The conclusion of this agreement will allow for the provision of long-term benefits in particular and so far it has not been possible to count periods travelled to the territory of the other party This will have an impact on the amount of benefits. This will also enable the inhabitants, either in our country or in Jerusalem, to benefit from the social security system. During the committee meetings, Minister Marczuk, a representative of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, was present. The bill did not provoke controversy among the participants. There were no questions, everyone understood the need for ratification of this act. That concludes the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u154	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Marcin Zielenecki from the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy and Mrs Joanna Wroneck from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are with us today. Do the ministers wish to speak? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of question to government representatives related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Czerwinski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u155	Ms. Marshal, High Izbo, Ministers, the question is very simple: why this agreement And it's probably the first contract in this area. Is it that late? Because we have signed such agreements with other countries much earlier. What happened to stop it, just what are the reasons for it?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u156	Which of you will answer that question? Maybe from a point of view, because the question is short, so...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u157	Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator... [[Have a seat, Minister.]] One can say this: there has been a certain approximation of diplomatic relations between the European Union and the State of Israel. The matter of the Association Treaty actually... It can be said that this agreement contains the standards appropriate to the European system for the coordination of social security in the various Member States of the European Union, and this is, in a sense, an extension of this mechanism. And you could say that... I don't really know if there's any delay here. It is simply that diplomatic relations have grown to the fact that it is considered appropriate to regulate these interconnective elements by means of a bilateral agreement, i.e. to regulate the legal status of persons who have been subject to different social security schemes during their careers. I think that such an important element is also the desire to bring the two countries closer together in terms of economic relations. There have been indications that the lack of such regulation is, in a sense, a barrier to the development of mutual economic relations. That's how I'd answer that question in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u158	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you, ministers. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would also like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: the Law on the ratification of the Agreement establishing the EU-LAC International Foundation, drawn up in Santo Domingo on 25 October 2016. The text of the Act is contained in print No 591, and the report of the Commission In print No 591 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Alexander Swede, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo, I have the honour to present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, which worked on 20 September 2017 on a law aimed at approving the ratification of the Agreement establishing the EU-LAC International Foundation, drawn up in Santo Domingo on 25 October 2016. The main objective of ratification of the agreement is to establish an EU-LAC Foundation, which is the European Union Foundation. Latin America and the Caribbean, which aims to strengthen political dialogue and cooperation between the European Union and the countries of Latin America and the Caribbean. The EU-LAC Foundation shall, in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement, become an international intergovernmental organisation under public international law based in Hamburg, the Federal Republic of Germany. The members of the Foundation will be following their internal legal procedures of the Latin American and Caribbean States, the Member States of the European Union and the European Union itself. A member of the Foundation may also be the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States, CELAC. The Agreement sets out the objectives of the Foundation and lays down general principles and guidelines governing its activities, structure and functioning. It also grants the Foundation legal personality and legal capacity so that it can conclude contracts, acquire and dispose of movable and immovable property and initiate legal proceedings. The main objectives of the Foundation will be: to contribute to strengthening the partnership; to encourage further understanding and understanding between regions; to enhance the mutual visibility of both regions and of the partnership itself; to promote and coordinate actions to promote inter-regional relations focused on the implementation of the priorities set out at the European Union summits CELAC, Latin America and the Caribbean; promoting discussion on common strategies aimed at achieving priorities by stimulating research and analysis; promoting fruitful exchanges and new opportunities for civil society contacts, among others. social actors. The main actions to be taken by the Foundation, in accordance with the agreement presented, will include:: encouraging discussions through seminars, conferences, workshops, publications, vocational training, etc.; to promote events on topics addressed at the summits of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States, the European Union, as well as research on issues which both regions have considered relevant; to create an online platform or publish electronic publications. It will also be possible for the Foundation to take initiatives in cooperation with public and private institutions, European Union institutions, international and regional institutions, Latin American and Caribbean States and the Member States of the European Union. In the agreement presented we also have specific bodies of the Foundation, which will be the Governing Board, the Chairman and the Executive Director. The Governing Board shall be composed of representatives of the members of the Foundation. The Governing Board will meet at the level of senior officials and, where appropriate, at the level of foreign ministers on the occasion of the summits of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States of the European Union. The Agreement provides that the Governing Board will have two Presidents, one of whom will be a representative of the European Union and the other of the Latin American and Caribbean States. The Governing Board will hold 2 ordinary meetings of the year, which coincide with the meetings of high-level officials of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States of the European Union. The Governing Board will take decisions in the presence of more than half of its members from each region by consensus. The Secretary-General of the Council of the European Union shall act as depositary. The Agreement provides that at the time of its signature, ratification or accession, the parties may formulate reservations or declarations concerning its content. The Agreement is open for signature for all Latin American and Caribbean countries, for the Member States of the European Union and for the European Union itself. The entry into force of the agreement will not result in the need to change Polish law. The Agreement will enter into force 30 days after the deposit of instruments of ratification or accession with the depositary by 8 parties from each region, including the Federal Republic of Germany and the European Union. The draft law came from the Government's submission and was the subject of the Parliamentary work of the Foreign Affairs Committee. The Commission recommended that the law be adopted without amendment. The Sejm adopted the Act at its forty-seventh meeting on 15 September 2017 in the form of a submission. The law in the opinion of the Senate Legislative Office does not raise any legislative objections. The Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union adopted the proposed law at its 100th meeting on 20 September unanimously. Therefore, on behalf of the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, I recommend to the High House the adoption of a law aimed at approving the ratification of the Agreement establishing the EU-LAC International Foundation, drawn up in Santo Domingo on 25 October 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u160	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Minister Joanna Wroneck with us. Would the Minister like to speak on this matter? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes item 15 of the agenda. I'm about to announce a recess. Okay, here's the announcement. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I would like to inform you that tomorrow we will begin the session at 9:00 a.m. from the examination of point twenty-second: information from the Council of Ministers on the state of implementation of the National Roads Construction Programme 2014-2023 with a view to 2025. Thank you very much. You're still Senator Secretary.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u161	Message. Meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of applications for the Act amending the Social Assistance Act No 597 - will take place on 27 September, Wednesday, at 8.15 p.m. in room 182.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-26-senat-47-3.u162	Thank you very much. I'm declaring a recess until 9:00 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 15 minutes 47]]
