ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to appoint Mr Kubov, Mr Milewski, Mr Olszówka and Mr Sobonia to the secretaries of today's proceedings. In the first part of the session, the Secretaries will be Mr Krzysztof Kubów and Mr Daniel Milewski. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Daniel Milewski and Artur Soboń. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Public Finance - hour. 9, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - Economy and Development - h.m. 9.30 a.m., - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 10, - Infrastructure - hour 10, - Social and Family Policy together with the Committee on Education, Science and Youth - hours 10, - Agriculture and Rural Development jointly with the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry - h.m. 10.30, - Culture and Media - hour 12, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 12, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12.30, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 13, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 13.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 14, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 15, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 16, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 17. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Anti-Economic Crimes and Lichvas - h.m. 9, - Parliamentary Group for: Defence of Polish Self-Government - h. 9.15, - National Democratic Parliamentary Team - h.m. 10, - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 11, - Parliamentary Heritage Team St. John Paul II - hour 11, - The Members' Team for the New Constitution - at 5 p.m. 11, - Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team - hour 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Patients' rights - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Digitalization, Innovation, IT and High-Tech - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 2.30 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u3	Thank you very much. The Committee on Culture and Media submitted a report on the Senate's resolution on the Law on the Restitution of National Cultural Goods. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Law on the legal protection of plant varieties, - on the amendment of the Law on specific rules for preparation for the implementation of investments in flood structures. The reports shall be printed in 1574 and 1569 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items of the agenda listened to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. We begin with the question put by Joanna Kopcinska and Tadeusz Dziuba from Law and Justice. The question concerns the functioning of the free medicines program for seniors and is addressed to the Ministry of Health. I would like to ask Mrs Kopcinska for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u4	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, Since 1 September 2016, there has been a government free drug programme for people aged 75+. A list with a list of medicines available free of charge is published every 2 months provided that you have a prescription with the letter S. In connection with the publication of a new list of medicines refunded from 1 May 2017, we ask the Minister with the following questions: What new medicines have been included in the list for seniors since 1 May 2017? How many people have used free meds for seniors? How many S-letter recipes were issued? How many packs of drugs have gone to Polish seniors? I also ask you to answer the question whether the Ministry is planning to extend the list of medicines that are received free of charge by seniors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u5	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Marek Tombarkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! On the issue of medicines for seniors, medicines related to the government's 75+ programme, the last notice of 26 April 2017 of the Minister of Health greatly extended the range of medicines available free of charge for patients aged over 75 years. Three groups of medicines have been added to treat hypertension and heart failure. These are selective beta-blockers, non-selective beta-blockers and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, both single-component and so-called. Combo products. Why is this group so important? That's because it's so-called. the first line of treatment for hypertension. So far, since September, the first drugs were available free of charge from the other line of treatment for hypertension. Why not one at a time? Because these drugs, which have been available so far, were medicines with 30% pay, i.e. with more pay on the part of the patient, while the drugs introduced on May 1 are medicines which have been until now with a lump sum payment, i.e. for 3.20. The fact that they were for 3,20, the patient paid so much, means that the NFZ paid significantly more to these drugs, so now, after deep analysis, we considered - this was the conclusion of both the Polish Society of Cardiology and the Polish Society of aneurysm and patient organizations - that it should be extended and give a full range of all medicines available for the treatment of hypertension and cardiovascular failure by introducing these three groups of drugs from 1 May. So far, the annual cost of patient subsidies for this group of medicines is about 140 and 150 million, which is a huge group of medicines. At the same time, I would like to remind you that all medicines on the list of these free medicines are refundables for all the reimbursement indications set out in the list of medicines. These indications are clearly described and therefore the inclusion of the drug on the list does not change the very indications in the case of registration of the product concerned. As far as the number of molecules is concerned, there are 1536 EAN codes on our list, and on September 1st we started with 1188 codes, which means that this group of drugs has increased significantly during that time. As far as implementation is concerned, around 1 million people use free medication each month. January data is 957,000. people, for February, for a shorter month - 787 thousand, for March - 942 thousand, for April - 938 thousand. persons. If we add this very large group of medicines now, we hope that over 1 million people will benefit from free medicines for seniors. As far as costs are concerned - from January was the first new list, which expanded this group of medicines, from March the second and now we have a third list - from the beginning of the year monthly costs for January amounted to 29, almost 30 million PLN, or 30 million PLN seniors did not spend their money on access to drugs, going to the pharmacy, they received drugs for which they would have to pay out of their pocket 30 million. In March this amount has already increased to 33 million, in April to almost 35 million, and now thanks to this new group of medicines this amount will grow significantly. As far as statistics are concerned, for the period from 1 September to the end of April there were 22 million packs of medicines released free of charge to patients aged 75 years and over. During this period, they used these medicines - because monthly this means that each month they do not add up, but are counted according to PESEL numbers - each month almost 1 million people use them, while adding up from the beginning of September to the end of April, there were 1727 thousand of them. We estimated that the seniors who would benefit from this would be over 2 million to almost 3 million, so we are already at the level of more than half of this entire population that has the right to benefit from it. As you can see, not everyone has the authority to do so. And when it comes to the number of prescriptions, it was 4.8 million prescriptions marked with S code, i.e. those free medicines for seniors. Since 1 January, the list has been extended to include all insulin preparations and insulin analogues included in the list of reimbursement medicines. In 2016, they have been analogues since September, but now they are human insulin. Since 1 March we have extended the list to include all medicines refunded to date in the glaucoma and the basic drug used in Parkinson's disease, i.e. levodopa, while since 1 May, as I have already said, there is a very large extension of the group of medicines against hypertension and against cardiovascular failure. As far as expansion is concerned, last year we had 125 million for 4 months, this year we have 564 300 000, therefore the increase in expenditure is significant, in the following years it will immediately be 15% each year. So we're still working on expanding this list, giving new molecules to the Agency for Medical Technology Assessment and Tarification to assess whether or not these molecules, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The ones we chose should be on that list. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u7	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Mr Tadeusz Dziuba an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u8	Minister, yesterday at the session of the Sejm Committee on Health, there was a debate on the availability of transplant drugs. Question: "Do patients, especially seniors, encounter difficulties in obtaining these medicines?"
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u9	Please, Minister Marek Tombarkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! There was a heated debate on the Health Committee yesterday. I would like to remind you - because it was a bit of heating up anxiety among patients - that the 2011 Refund Act, which came into force in 2012, assumes a very specific, rigidly described mechanism for determining the basis of the limit for a given drug. And that's what happens every two months. I would like to remind you that in 2012 and 2015 there were 16 such very loud cases, when on the next new list a given drug, which was previously for a lump sum, i.e. for 3,20, suddenly became a medicine with a payment of several hundred zlotys or more than a thousand. That's what happened on the May list now. Medicines that are used in transplant patients, i.e. immunosuppressants, two original medicines, which have so far been with a lump sum payment for 3.20, because there have been equivalents, i.e. medicines with the same bioequivalence. I want to place particular emphasis on the fact that all the drugs we are introducing are medicines with proven efficacy, strength and safety. All this is in the documentation of the registration office of medicinal products. There's absolutely no contraindications to convert the original drug into a replacement drug. In the case of these medicines, a medicine that has become the basis of the limit, i.e. a substitute, is available for a flat-rate payment, i.e. 3.20. However, when it comes to the original drug, unfortunately this payment for patients has increased significantly, but this is a normal mechanism of the reimbursement bill. Thanks to this, the savings that can be made are spent on purchasing further new therapies for many patients in need. We still have a problem with the availability of modern anti-cancer drugs in Poland and all the savings that we obtain thanks to risk sharing instruments, thanks to very difficult negotiations with pharmaceutical companies, thanks to such a structure of the reimbursement bill... There are certainly some inconveniences here, but the very mechanism of switching the original drug to a substitute medicine, which is much cheaper - and thus subsidies from the state budget are significantly less - generates savings that we can use to buy new therapies. And in the context of directly seniors, as I say, drugs that are registered in the same indications... The replacement medicine and the original medicine have the same indications. As far as all the documentation is concerned, at European level there is an EMA, i.e. the European Medicines Agency, and in Poland there is an office for registration of medicinal products. Registration of the medicine, thus allowing the refund to be placed on the market at a later stage, is a very strict process and all of these medicines are medicines of the same effectiveness and safety. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So that there is absolutely no risk here when it comes to the use of drugs, about drugs replacement versus original medicines, for patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u11	Thank you very much, Minister. We move on to the next question formulated by Mr Gawron, Mr Starzycki and Mr Gonciusz from Law and Justice. It concerns programs of the Ministry of Development support for Polish companies offering railway vehicles and is, of course, addressed to the Ministry of Development. The first question, please, Mr Andrzej Gawron.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, The development of Polish companies producing railway vehicles is one of the main elements of the strategy for responsible development. And very well: these are high-tech products, these are products with which we can enter foreign markets. But there have been two media news lately. One, maybe positive: a cluster of railway undertakings has been created, which will try to develop their activities, such a holistic one, and be a certain partner for the government. It's a good thing that these companies are trying to connect and they're going to choose a concept. But there is also the second information about the resignation of PKP Intercity from the purchase of darts in Bydgoszcz Pesa. It can be such less positive information that can affect the development of this project, and this Dart project is the project that actually was created in Poland, it was invented here, produced here. There's also a lot of companies working with the Bydgoszcz Pesa. Are there any risks to the implementation of this program, because that's what it was called?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u13	And Mr Dariusz Starzycki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Due to the rapid development of modern technologies and huge competition with foreign companies in this area, I have a question. Is the Ministry planning to take action to strengthen science-business cooperation so that science can support our rail industry by providing ideas and innovations that apply to the real economy? If so, what measures are planned for this purpose? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u15	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Mrs Jadwiga Emilewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u16	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for asking us about the development of the programme relating to the railway industry in Poland. That's two important threads, I think. One is that this industry is indeed present on the Polish market and is actually ready to deliver all products that run on rails in the world, maybe except for high-speed railways. It is also worth mentioning that today it is 11 thousand. jobs, and the revenue of this sector last year was PLN 8 billion. So that this is a very important branch of the economy. The Ministry of Development sees this and realizes it. Therefore, among others. The "Luxtorpeda' programme as one of the flagship programmes has been entered into the "Strategy for Responsible Development' programme. How is the implementation of this programme materialized? First of all, it's based on three dimensions. The first is the development of innovative products, and therefore the development of R &amp; D, which will aim to develop new generation products based on the industrial and R &amp; D potential present in Poland. The second important topic is the purchase of new goods, new vehicles by railway transport companies present on the Polish market. And the third thread, also very important, is the modernisation of the rolling stock. We are aware that rail transport, rail transport is the blood of the state economy, as well as that rail transport has a very strong emphasis on European policies. At the same time, we know about the average age of rolling stock in Poland. It's 30 years, all the railway companies are saying what it looks like today. Thus, on the one hand, the modernisation of existing rolling stock and, on the other hand, the purchase of new products is not only a choice but also a necessity. The key effect, the aim we have set ourselves in implementing the "Luxtorpeda" programme, is to create competitive vehicles and therefore vehicles that will not only be present on our market but also be our export goods. We are aware that increasing this competitiveness can actually only occur if new projects, new passenger wagons, locomotives or integrated vehicles are developed, which, as I say, will both meet the needs of our market and can be offered outside. This concerns measures and the implementation of the entire project. One of them, especially from the R &amp; D area, and this was the second question, is two threads. One is the Innotabortion programme. This is a sector programme developed in cooperation with companies operating on the Polish market, on the other hand with R &amp; D centres dealing, in a broad sense, with rail transport projects. This is a project for which the total allocation is PLN 1.2 billion. In the first competition closed at the beginning of this year, applications were selected for a total amount of PLN 160 million. Contracts will be signed at the beginning of the third quarter of this year. These projects submitted in the framework of this competition concern both urban rail transport and cross-urban rail transport. Using the results of these projects will allow serial production. However, there is also a second very important thread in the implementation of these R &amp; D projects, which at the moment we are completing in cooperation in the new mode adopted last year. Almost public procurement, which allows the performance of the contract in so-called. the innovation partnership procedure. For this partnership, we need one who finally orders a product that is not yet on the market today. Therefore, the process of reaching this order is very complicated. But if we are talking about innovation, these major players must be innovative. That is why we have developed together with companies that provide rail transport services in Poland, the extent to which they are interested in the following areas: locomotive, wagon, integrated transport, which products are necessary for them and which they are looking for, which is not on the market today. At the moment we are finishing to define the framework of this competition again within the National Centre for Research and Development. It's gonna be a contest. While Innotabor is an open innovation, an inquiry to research teams, which is interesting to suggest, is a tailor-made product, i.e. companies know what they need, what they lack, and declare that if, as a result of research and development, a project to which a pilot product will be produced meets all technical and price expectations, they will declare the purchase of an appropriate number of the product concerned. So that is also a very innovative way of ordering. We assume that this competition will be announced in the third quarter. We know that it will take 30 months of such highly disciplined work to complete such a new product with certification with tests. So after 30 months we can hope that these new products will physically run on tracks or rails in Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So that we predict that significant modernisation of transport, these new products between 2021 and 2026 will enter the market. As far as I'm concerned... Looks like only half a minute...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u17	Thank you very much, Minister. You'll have three more minutes. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development Jadwiga Emilewicz: Thank you. I would ask you to ask an additional question by Mr Jarosław Goncier.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u18	Thank you. Minister! The railway industry will be one of the Polish intelligent specializations on which Polish exports are to be based. Deputy Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki presented details of the government's development plan. The plan is based on reindustrialisation, promotion of innovation and exports. I would like to ask the Minister to give us an approximation of how the Ministry intends to support Polish rail, rail and, if you would, to bring us closer to the issue of high-speed rail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u19	Please, Minister Jadwiga Emilevich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u20	As far as the first part is concerned, as part of the promotion of Polish rail transport products, we already implement it by supporting the presence of these companies at the most prestigious, major public transport fairs which take place in Berlin in the autumn. Very important promotional and financial support, but also personal, took place last year. This year we are also planning to have a large presence and a large participation in this event, as I say, also support companies in the right presence there. We are also going to use the so-called open this year. trade office, which is the new commercial offices, in several locations around the world. These offices operate according to a different logic than the former industrial and commercial departments, which rather dealt with economic diplomacy. These are indeed professional trade officers whose task is to actively support the export of Polish producers. This is actually happening, mainly because some of these offices are open in markets that we have defined as potentially growing, important to us. We're talking about a few locations in Asia. Therefore, active dialogue with these entrepreneurs is indeed taking place. These entrepreneurs will also be present during the Expo in Astana. It is also our great commitment to take and present these producers and to find them partners for dialogue just at the Expo in Astana. These are the most important elements. Of course, capital support instruments remain through KUKE and through BGK. These kinds of meetings and conversations and a product offer have actually taken place, and, as I know, two of these largest producers are in dialogue with institutions representing development institutions. And as far as I'm concerned... I'm going to go back to the first thread of PESA and the reports we've all heard about lately. So, of course, this is a market order, this is a free market company. By remaining in dialogue and asking the carrier who actually announced that he was not going to execute another order, asking only the question we could ask, about where, what is the motivation to make such a decision, although, as I say, we do not have an influence on it, that is corporate governance, what were the motivations... So, first of all, the previous contract. [[♪ The bell ♪]] it did not indicate that it could be automatically extended. That's one thing. Secondly, the list of deficiencies to be completed, which is necessary when it comes to darts that have been purchased by Intercity, is indeed long. We are trying to moderate this dialogue, so that really this rolling stock, which has been purchased, is fully used, because it is still not fully used today, while the number of public procurements that we see in the rolling stock already distributed in Poland... We are convinced that they will promote the development of all the railway companies that are on our market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u21	Thank you very much, Minister. We move on to the next question formulated by Mr Kostusia and Mr Wilczyński from the Civic Platform. The question about the organisation of the National Polish Song Festival in Opole is addressed to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. Please, Mr Tomasz Kostus.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u22	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! What has been going on around the Opole Festival for a few days now can be called a disgrace, a scandal, an unprecedented situation in its 53-year history. Because what do you call a situation when you destroy the reputation of the capital of the Polish song? What do you call the situation when you destroy the brand of the Opole festival, the icon of Polish culture, our common heritage? And the President of Opole is not the perpetrator of this state. [[Voice from the room: Who?]] Yes, he was the one who, as the Minister rightly pointed out yesterday, broke the agreement to cooperate with TV and he refused to allow TV workers to enter the Polish amphitheatre. But, sir, he saved the Opole festival from embarrassment, from politicisation. [[Voice from the room: Saved?]] [[Voice from the room: Who compromised?]] Because for 53 years, the Opole festival has never been politicized or compromised, perhaps beyond 1982. There was no agreement to compromise and to politicize the Opole festival. And there won't be. Minister, because I am asking you these questions, will the Minister get involved and end the ongoing conflict between President Opole and President Jack Kurski, and help with this year's festival organisation? But in Opole, not in Kielce, not in Szczecin, not in Toruń, but in Opole. And second question, Minister: Will the Minister engage and end the ongoing dispute between television and artists? Let me remind you that the artists gave up their participation in the festival as a result of an attempt to politicize it. [[Voice from the room: It's you.]] Minister, I urge you to engage in this dispute so that you can put an end to it, so that this year's edition 54. The National Polish Song Festival in Opole was just held in the capital of the Polish song, in Opole. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u23	Thank you very much. I kindly ask you to answer the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage of Mr Paweł Lewandowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! You have rightly pointed out that there is no need to politicise the dispute around the Opole Festival. Therefore, we do not see the possibility that the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, who is a politician, engages in this dispute in any way. And when it comes to reconciling television and artists, I think that artists and television cannot live without each other because they are a kind of marriage and that is the assumption, I assume that marriage disputes should not be entered into. Let's wait, they'll probably make up anyway. Thank you very much. [[Brilliant, Minister. It's like a single-sex marriage.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u25	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask you an additional question, Mr Richard Wilczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Hands fall when you listen to the representative of the ruling party who says that you will not engage in a dispute, you will not engage in a situation which concerns the national good, which is the Polish Song Festival in Opole. Yesterday, your boss, Deputy Prime Minister Gliński, spoke here about the conspiracy of artists against rulers, talking about rumours. Do you really believe that the dark people will buy it? But it won't buy it, it won't be bought by the people of Opole, it won't be bought by lovers of the Polish song who were waiting for this festival. Because the question is, despite your swindling and unwillingness to act: Do you want to take responsibility for the national welfare of this festival, in such a place, with such performers? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What you just did was extreme insolence, Minister. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u27	The Polish language is also a national good, sir. They don't say they're not gonna buy it, they're not gonna buy it, if you don't mind, with all due respect. [[Applause]] [[Your hands are falling too, Marshal.]] Please respond to Minister Paweł Lewandowski. [[Voice from the room: Next censor.]] [[Please join the crew.]] This is not censorship, it is, so to speak, a pleasant attention to the fact that it is worth taking care of the beauty of our native language. [[With an emphasis on "sympathetic."]] Yes. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u28	Of course, this is our common national good, which is why I encourage all sides of the conflict not to escalate this conflict together, but to allow the parties directly concerned to come to an agreement. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u29	I thank the Minister for this somewhat laconic response. Let's move on to the next question. The question was raised by Mr Witold Zembaczyński, Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Mr Mirosław Suchon and Mr Mirosław Pampuch and Mrs Ewa Lieder from Modern. The question concerns a dispute related to the organisation of the National Polish Song Festival in Opole. The question is addressed to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. Please, Mr Witold Zembaczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u30	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Mr. Małomów Minister, The question is valid. What is the plan of the Government of the Republic of Poland to dissipate the black clouds around the National Festival of Polish Song in Opole? This is an unprecedented situation. In the 53-year tradition of the Opole festival during various governments in which various political forces spoke, we never had such a situation in which the Polish song festival would not take place in the capital of the Polish song. My question is: Will the signal, composed by Bogusław Klimczuk, which opened, start every concert this year, sound in Opole? What are the costs of this fight generated by President Kurski with the Polish community of stage artists, with the Polish community of singers? What are the costs for Opole? What are the costs for TVP? After all, this airtime, which every year the millionth audience of the Opole festival wants to be filled with performances from this iconic Opole scene, must be filled with something on your TV. What are you going to do, broadcast from Jasna Góra? Minister, please don't underestimate the subject. This is critically important. This is an important issue due to the tradition of the Opole festival, due to the functioning of the city of Opola. This is an important issue for artists, creators. We cannot function in the face of a conflict that is strictly political, which leads to the fact that the symbols of Polish culture, a certain heritage, are destroyed because you have some completely undescribed ambitions related to influencing content which may fall on the boards of the Opole Festival, whether from the lips of singers or during cabaret performances. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I am asking you to give me an answer that has really solved this case. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u31	Thank you, sir. If you could refrain from mocking the religious feelings of Polish citizens, it would affect, I think, the culture of public debate. [[Mr. Marshal could refrain from commenting because he's from holding a sitting, not from polemics with an O.R. Thank you.]] It is my duty to take care of the culture of the discussion, sir, so do not answer me here. [[Please take care of yourself as well.]] Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage by Minister Paweł Lewandowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The problem with the festival is that he has been politicized much earlier by the other side of the dispute. President Opole is responsible for the contract, the termination of the contract and the destruction of the festival. Will the city bear any costs for this? I think he's gonna incur some costs because this contract has been unlawfully terminated. Therefore, as far as I know, public television will claim its claims in court and will probably satisfy the costs which it would incur for an unfair, unlawful termination of the contract. I very much regret the fact that this matter has been so politicized, because there was no political thread there. There's never been an element of censorship. In fact, the whole situation, as Prime Minister Gliński said yesterday, was based on rumors. This strange escalation was probably in the political interest of a certain party to the political dispute. I am very sorry that you are trying to play as important an event as the Opole festival in the political arena. That's all I can possibly say about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u33	Thank you. Please, the additional question will be asked by Mr Witold Zembaczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u34	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Please respond to the possibility of sending a mediator, who will be able to conduct conversations between the artists' community, the environment of the doomed artists, because such a category of the state has generated because you do not want to see them at the Opole festival of Polish song, the city of Opole, and above all millions of viewers and fans of this festival, who expect this event, as every year, to take place. I will remind you that only in 1982 the Polish song festival did not take place, which was due to events of martial law. I will remind you that even in 1997, when we had the flood of the millennium, the Polish song festival in Opole had its place. What amragedon is in Poland this year that there will be no festival of Polish song in Opole? When will you begin mediation? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u35	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Paweł Lewandowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! I think it's quite precise, I've tried not to spread it too much, I've presented the position of Minister of Culture in this matter... [[It's about mediation.]] [[But it's about mediation.]] ...so I will not repeat myself, but I would like to add that the politicisation of this dispute is not the responsibility of the president of television or this government. The other side of the political scene, which escalates it only on the basis of rumors that arose around this festival, is responsible for politicising this dispute. Thank you very much. [[But are these politicians supposed to perform, or are they artists, Minister? Are the artists supposed to perform at the festival or the opposition politicians?]] It is true that politicians should not engage in this dispute so as not to politicise it more. [[So we're not gonna fight for the festival, right?]] I know that this is what you want, to politicize this dispute, to create a political framework around every element, everything that is happening in Poland, and not everything is political. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u37	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question was raised by Mr Mirosław Maliszewski from the Polish People's Party and concerns agricultural losses caused by violent weather and is addressed to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. Please, Mr Mirosław Maliszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u38	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the spring of this year, two waves of frosts: the first 16, 17 April, the second 9 and 10 May, caused significant losses in agricultural crops in Poland, which were already in a fairly advanced stage of development during this period. Losses were incurred on agricultural holdings, and particularly high levels were on gardening farms, especially on fruit farms. The losses were incurred by producers of vegetables, vegetables grown in foil tunnels that speed up harvest dates. The greatest losses were suffered by fruit growers, but these are not the only ones injured, because they are also harmed by processors who will have fewer raw materials, as well as by fruit distribution companies, including for exports, which will have less turnover. This also applies to those in the agricultural environment who will have a much weaker buyer of their products. They will also lose consumers who will have to pay a lot more for fruit, which is already visible, and will lose the economy, because exports will be reduced. The picantria of this case, in terms of losses and this atmosphere, adds the fact that farmers had no possibility of insurance against this phenomenon, because no insurance company presented them offers, no company with which the Minister of Agriculture signed contracts. Companies explain that the regulations came into force too late, too late the bill was signed by the President and could not prepare the offer, and as a result there were no such offers. Therefore, the question should be asked here, this question I repeat for one time, I also asked it at the meeting of the Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, and then I did not get the answer: What aid can be given to affected farmers, is there a possibility and will it be possible to obtain disaster loans, the extension of these loans? Many farms are no longer available for new credit shares. Will it finally be, popular in recent years, the possibility of obtaining support for 1 ha of crops where damage occurred? And last question. Because a wave of frosts has affected not only Poland, but also many European countries, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Has the government asked for help from the European Commission and is aid for farmers not only in Poland but also in other European countries from European Union funds being considered?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u39	Thank you very much. Please respond to Mr Rafał Romanowski's Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! The questions you have put are very well-founded, but the answers to these questions have been answered many times. Perhaps I would like to express my sincere thanks to the High House for being so quick to proceed. at the end of March on the amendment of the Law on agricultural and livestock insurance. This amendment was practically examined during one sitting, then a short Senate meeting and was signed by the President of the Republic and entered into force on 2 April. As you know perfectly well, contracts with insurance companies were signed not on 2 April, but much, much earlier, because by the end of 2016. I'm sorry, but I'm not going to be responsible for companies, insurance companies, commercial companies that haven't been able to prepare a particular product. Package insurance entered into force on 1 January 2017. This was the whole package for all 10 risks, which was very specific in the 2015 Act. Unfortunately, on the communication line between companies, agricultural organisations and the government, we came to the conclusion that in order to use these over 900 million PLN... For the first time, such a huge sum appeared in the state budget compared to 2015, 2016, between the amounts of 100 to 120 million and 900 million is a huge difference, this 900 million is earmarked for this purpose to be added to insurance. just, among other things. agricultural crops. Unfortunately, these companies prepared and implemented their product for the market only on 10 April, and on 15 April. I understand that there is a withdrawal period, and I do not intend to justify anyone here, but I assure you that the High House knows that it was really all done on the side of the government, as well as the High House, so that these regulations will enter into force as quickly as possible. As I said, I am not going to be responsible for the commercial companies that have signed agreements with us. As far as the estimation of losses is concerned, the losses are as estimated as possible, currently in 15 voivodships, 477 local districts, working committees. At the moment, the estimate of losses has only been completed by six committees. These losses relate to more than 7.5 thousand. farms, more than 21 thousand. ha, including losses that cover more than 70% , concern 3563 ha and the total value of these losses is currently PLN 46 million. These data are published after obtaining reports from voivodship crisis management centers weekly, every Wednesday between hours. 15 a hour 16, on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture. So we are constantly monitoring the situation, and on this basis - these minutes of the committee assessing losses - will be prepared by the government concrete assistance. The amount of PLN 900 million intended for agricultural insurance is foreseen for basic aid, Commissioner. Now I don't want to dwell on what the negative effects of wintering are, what are the negative effects of spring frosts, about deadlines, etc. issues, but sadists had the opportunity to at least insure themselves from the negative effects of the wintering and could do so by the end of 2016. This would also include those losses which were in mid-April, also under the negative effects of the wintering, and in this case they would also receive compensation. But this insurance covered a little more than 1.5% the judicial area of our country. So here responsibility should be spread out on both sides. As far as specific aid is concerned, as the Member knows perfectly well, we therefore urge the Committees for the estimation of losses - appointed by local authorities, requested by local authorities and appointed by the voivods - to assess these losses as quickly as possible, so that these protocols are as urgent as possible in order to enable us, either on the basis of the current regulation, to prepare specific assistance or to prepare a new programme immediately, as regards aid to these farmers. However, it must be borne in mind that this aid, unfortunately, can only offset the losses incurred, but it certainly will not cover these losses 100%. So we will talk about specific rates within two months, if these committees finish their work, and such assistance will then be addressed. As far as financial assistance from the European Union budget is concerned, Commissioner, I am well aware that these weather anomalies, the negative effects of weather phenomena, do not apply only to Poland, because they concern, among others, Poland. Germany, some parts of Benelux or even Spain or France. But to benefit from this help, so-called. disaster aid, this loss would have to be above EUR 3 billion in the country concerned or 0.6% gross domestic product. So God for the time being so that we do not suffer such a huge loss in agricultural production this year, that we must ask the European Commission for help. But I assure you, sir, I assure the judges, I assure the farmers that such help from the government will be [[♪ The bell ♪]] Targeted. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u41	Thank you, Minister. I would like an additional question from Mr Mirosław Maliszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u42	First, an explanation, Minister. What else are the effects of wintering, and what else are the losses caused by frosts. The difference is that frosts are about the flowering phase, and the effects of the winter are about trees and the impossibility of their flowering. So this possibility was absolutely not possible and insurance companies would not have paid compensation. In addition to this autumn, sadists could not be insured against the effects of wintering because they lacked budget resources. As regards the liability of insurance companies, you can say that you do not feel responsible, but someone else - maybe Minister Jurgiel - should not say this, because from the 350 and not 900 million pool, to which you signed agreements with insurance companies, 150 or 160 million is an agreement signed with PZU. PZU is today a de facto state-owned company, which has an impact. This is a commercial company, but one that has an impact. So something failed on this line, someone didn't see to it and couldn't be insured. On the other hand, when it comes to aid from the European Union budget, we need to talk about changing the principles of the European Union so that these indicators [[♪ The bell ♪]] we were not concerned and other countries were not concerned. And look at the history of the last 3 and 4 years - such conversations were and such assistance was given, and unfortunately there were no such losses. Luckily, it wasn't.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u43	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Rafał Romanowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Member forced me to have an academic discussion. As regards the negative effects of the wintering, they are counted each year in accordance with the Act until the end of April. As far as the negative effects of frosts are concerned, they are counted up from April 15th. So if the farmer was insured from the negative effects of wintering, and the wave of frosts was among others. Before April 15th, these days... [[The 16th, the 16th.]] ...then he could have used that compensation. So, Mr, about the legal differences and deadlines, I think we can talk at a different level. With regard to the liability of commercial companies, whatever it may be called, or of insurance companies, Mr President, if we were so pressured by such companies - even you mentioned the PZU, which is the property of the State Treasury - probably in a moment the opposition parliamentarians would start a rhetorical discussion that the government is pressing economic operators to put pressure on them to pursue very specific objectives. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr President, the Government of the Republic of Poland is from preparing the appropriate provisions for these provisions to enter within a time limit which would allow very specific objectives and very specific tasks to be met. And as I said at the beginning of today, I warmly thank the High House that this amendment of the Act was so quickly proceded that the President of the Republic of Poland signed it practically in one day and that it entered into force in accordance with the provision on the day of publication. So what was possible on the government's side was realized. At the moment, the most important thing is, firstly, the valuation of losses, secondly, the preparation of an appropriate programme at the appropriate level, so that the aid is directed to those agricultural producers who have suffered losses in the current year due to negative weather phenomena. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u45	Thank you, Minister. We move to the next question formulated by Arkadiusz Czartoryski, Marek Polek, Joanna Borowiak, Jack Kurzepa, Anna Milczanowska and the Law and Justice Burzyńska Lydia. The question concerns actions taken by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration in the area of improving the level of flood safety - addressed to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. Please, the first question - Mr Marek Polak, the second part - Mrs Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, As we all know, floods are one of the most common natural hazards, causing severe losses in millions of zlotys each year. At the end of April, the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management issued a third-degree warning for Lubuskie voivodship, as well as second-degree alerts for West Pomeranian and Silesian voivodships and first-degree warnings for Lesser Poland and Świętokrzyskie. This situation has revealed particularly strongly the shortcomings in flood protection in many localities and the failure to remove damage from floods from previous years. In the State budget, there is a reserve dedicated to the elimination of damage caused by natural disasters at the disposal of the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. That is why I wanted to ask the Minister: What resources for the special reserve included in the state budget were allocated in 2016, as well as in the current year to counteract and eliminate the consequences of the natural disasters that occurred in previous years, with particular emphasis on the Małopolska voivodship? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u47	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Jarosław Zieliński. [[We shared the question. You're still an MP.]] Excuse me, Member. Minister, if you could just wait one more second, exactly one minute. Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u48	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, Floods of whatever size always mean human drama. The crisis management uniforms shall take action to prevent, respond to and eliminate crises, including flood prevention and water rescue. I wanted to ask the Minister: What has the Ministry recently taken to improve the level of flood safety of citizens, to be prepared to counter the effects of floods, and what are the plans of the Ministry in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u49	Thank you very much. Minister Jarosław Zieliński. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Members, I don't know if that was the main and additional question at the same time, or if I have to combine the answers now. Mr. Marshal will decide.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u51	No, no. There will be an additional question, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: It will, I get it. In advance, I reserve that these questions cause very extensive information to be given in response, some of which will probably have to be given in writing, which I pledge in advance, because I will not be able to say everything, but I am already approaching this answer. Indeed, a special reserve is established annually in the State budget, a reserve of the State budget for the prevention and eradication of the effects of natural disasters, i.e. reserve in part 83, item. No 4. It has three main objectives. Firstly, it is an investment objective of preventing, creating, building infrastructure to prevent floods. The second objective of this reserve is to rebuild flood-related infrastructure damaged during natural disasters, during the occurrence of hazards and floods. Here, too, we also need to add funds aimed at rebuilding municipal infrastructure. And the third objective is direct aid to those affected by natural disasters, including floods. Thus in 2016 this reserve in the budget amounted to PLN 1 billion. It was increased in relation to the plan, to the draft budget, which we found after the previous government, by PLN 200 million, because there was written 800 million PLN. Already during the first year of our responsibility we increased this reserve for the state by PLN 200 million. The biggest investments, the most important items of this amount, which was later reduced as a result of the decision to allocate PLN 81.7 million to combat African swine fever, which was not planned before... Thus, this amount was transferred to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, and the rest, i.e. 918 300 thousand. zł, the following investments were the biggest: For the reconstruction of municipal infrastructure of local governments we allocated in 2016. PLN 336 million. Of these measures, 303 bridge buildings, 1145 km of roads, 12 facilities and almost 60 km of water and sewage networks were rebuilt or renovated in 484 local government units in the country, 19 other municipal facilities, e.g. schools or kindergartens. The second position in terms of the size of the funds was the investment Mon. The flood protection project in the river Oder basin. It absorbed PLN 307.5 million. This appropriation is intended mainly to cover tasks relating to the modernisation of the Wrocław Water Node and the construction of the Racibórz reservoir. The third investment was the construction of flood management infrastructure, so this is about tasks carried out by regional water management boards and regional water management management departments, and it absorbed almost PLN 111 million. Within this amount, 65 damage to shafts and linear sections of shafts with a length of almost 30 km were rebuilt or rebuilt, 62 flooring, regulatory, drainage, 300 km of slopes, and the bottom of streams or rivers remaining in the natural state, one pumping station, one tank, two locks, and repair of the weight bench on a section of 3.4 km was also carried out. I'm not giving details here because I'd like to save time. Other expenditure from this reserve is e.g. protection of less gorges and direct assistance to victims. Within this amount, we have renovated - we have allocated 3.5 million PLN - a significant number of residential buildings and we have provided direct assistance to people affected by natural disasters. Here too, we had funding from the flood protection project in the Oder and Vistula basin - this project will be developed this year and in the following years - as well as the fitting of fire department units and the replacement of equipment damaged or damaged during emergency operations related to disaster relief and the purchase of consumables. Tackling and removing landslides. Here also a significant amount, PLN 45 million, was intended for this purpose in 2016. In 2017, the reserve included in the state budget also amounts to PLN 1 billion and is intended for the same purposes, with... Mr. Marshal, I'd like a moment more, 'cause I'd like to give you at least the main amounts. Minister, you'll have three minutes after the extra question, okay? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: I'm supposed to stop now, aren't I? Maybe. Maybe we should let Mr Pole ask an additional question. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: But maybe I'll give you three more, because that's for that... Good. There you go. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Thank you, Marshal. The point is to compare it somehow, [[♪ The bell ♪]] close the whole of 2016. Date of birth: Approximately 1963. The targets are the same. In the plans that have been prepared, the largest amount is PLN 323 million. This is the amount for flood protection, for this flood protection project in the river Oder basin. This is an important project because it aims to improve flood safety of more than 2.5 million people. A flood protection project in the Oder and Vistula basin. The planned amount is 238,920,000. zł. This project concerns the protection of flood safety of 5 million people. These are large projects involving external funds from the World Bank. Okay, Minister. I'm sorry, but we have to stick to the time. Maybe we should allow Mr Pole to ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u52	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I thank the Minister on his own behalf and also on behalf of the Member for these comprehensive explanations and information. I would like to add, on the example of my district, that there are many towns in Małopolska, e.g. Broszkowice near Oświęcim, whose inhabitants have been waiting for 15 years to strengthen the shaft on the Vistula River, watching with concern every high wave. It is similar in Maków Podhalański, whose center was flooded several times by small mountain streams. There are no proper fortifications yet. Therefore, I would like to ask once again, perhaps not to ask, call for appropriate resources to be involved in flood-reinforcement and thank you for what has been done so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u53	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Jarosław Zieliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u54	As I said, Mr President, I will give more comprehensive information in writing, because here time is too short to tell. On the other hand, with regard to the Małopolskie voivodship, they are prepared to implement very serious plans and are devoted to this purpose. I just want to state that funds for reconstruction of municipal infrastructure for the Małopolska voivodship, for local governments, for 2017 amount to more than PLN 22 million, 22 430 thousand. This amount may change because over the course of the year, the non-use of funds in other investment tasks makes it possible to allocate funds to further tasks that have not yet been undertaken. That's the news for today. As far as the Małopolskie voivodship is concerned, we have protection against the flooding of Kraków and Wieliczka - it is a big project, we will write about it - and passive and active protection in the water catchment area of Raby. I would also like to stress that there is a huge backlog of damage caused by the elements, the consequences of natural disasters. We remove these effects by allocating funds from this reserve from 2009 onwards. As of 2016, tasks were financed to address the effects of the 2009 natural disasters, followed by 2010 and beyond. And yet there are new events, there are new situations that also make us react on an ongoing basis, so to support local governments, to allocate funds for the reconstruction of infrastructure destroyed by natural disasters in the current time. This reserve is too small. She's too small. Much of it is being absorbed, as I have told you, by these huge flood protection investment projects; in the coming years, these will be projects in the Oder and Oder and Vistula basin with World Bank funds. If this reserve could be entirely earmarked for municipal infrastructure, then of course it would be completely different. However, it is divided into these two parts, sometimes mistakenly expected of us to finance other tasks, when this is not possible due to the fact that the main measures are linked precisely by these large investments. So that this amount of billion zlotys in reserve under item 4 looks great, but in fact, as far as measures to eliminate the effects of natural disasters are concerned, it then, after deduction of these funds for these future investments, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which are designed to prevent the effects of floods, is not so big. Last sentence. This year there was a new investment task, completely unexpected, namely the construction of Malczyce water level. For this purpose, the amount of PLN 85 million has been taken from this reserve, and I can say that this reserve is smaller, and the Minister of Agriculture has applied for the amount of PLN 80 million from this reserve for the control of infectious diseases of animals, ASF and avian influenza. This case is currently under procedure, so that it is not known what the final amount of this reserve will be for the purposes we are talking about. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u55	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the next question, formulated by Mrs Zofia Czernow, Mrs Ewa Drozd and Mr Janusz Cichoń from the Civic Platform, on the aid to beekeepers in connection with the mass disease of bees - to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. Please, the first question is asked jointly by Mrs Zofia Czernow and Mr Janusz Cichoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'm gonna start by asking you a question. When and how do you intend to help beekeepers rebuild bee families? Reason. Many Polish beekeepers found themselves in a very difficult situation, because in many places in Poland 70% bees are completely extinct. The remaining bees are very weak, which is bad for their survival. Never before has there been such a great disaster in our region in bee farming. Beekeepers can't handle this cataclysm without external support. Financial assistance is needed to rebuild bee families by purchasing deposits. The absence of bees is not only a huge loss for beekeepers, but also without bees there will be no good crops in orchards and gardens.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u57	Dear Minister, I co-authored such a book, I once wrote it with my friend Prof. Wilde, beekeeping could be business. And indeed from a point of view Beekeepers may be business, but from the state's point of view, it's not just business. Beekeeping requires special treatment, because it is of enormous importance for nature, as well as for agricultural production. In such a situation as we are dealing with, the state cannot remain indifferent and leave the beekeepers with this problem to themselves. This requires a really immediate, rapid response and certainly not a sufficient instrument here is the National Bee Support Programme.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u58	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mrs Ewa Lech.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In answer to this question, I would like to say that we are actually aware that the situation throughout the country, when it comes to wintering bees, is quite difficult. Recently, even beekeepers have asked, with such a request, to enable them to purchase, i.e. import, e.g. from Ukraine, packages or bee deposits to give their consent. Unfortunately, we cannot give such consent, because it is not provided by EU or national rules, so that the bee of the mother or these primers andlays - these are two different things - could be imported from Ukraine. The country must be on the list which is announced in the EU Regulation. Ukraine is on this list, while it is not possible to import primers, deposits and packages. Let me remind you that the package or deposit is a mother surrounded by 1.5 kg of bees. [[Family.]] The family, yes, on the frames, along with the red and the food. And here, unfortunately, there is no possibility, while it is possible to import bee mothers, of course bearing a health certificate, it must undergo veterinary border control, etc. That's it. This is a request that we cannot fully implement. You can only, I remind you, import bee mothers. With regard to the situation in the country and the national programme now, it is clear that under EU Regulation No 1308 there is a possibility that EU countries are developing support programmes for themselves. With us there is also a national programme developed for the years 2016-2019. This programme provides for aid for the reconstruction and improvement of the value of bees. And now aid may be granted in the form of reimbursement of part of the selected costs, e.g. for the purchase of bee mothers from breeding lines under the control of an entity authorised by the Minister of Agriculture, then for the purchase of bee sets or packages from breeding grasses, as well as for the purchase of sets and packages from producers who have received a recommendation from beekeepers' associations. Of course, a single beekeeper cannot apply for such help, but it must be done by an association or a bee organisation on their behalf. This refund is subject to only 70% costs. And now I am. According to Art. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Act on the Agricultural Market Agency and the organisation of certain agricultural markets, the authority competent to carry out the tasks set out in the national programme is the President of the Agency and it is possible for the association - in this case the Regional Beekeepers' Union in Jelenia Góra - to request the President to annex the contract so that the measures provided for in the programme are postponed, i.e. from one pool of funds foreseen for some purpose to move the funds, e.g. for the purchase of mothers. As regards the Regional Beekeepers' Union in Jelenia Góra, for the 2016/2017 season he was granted aid for all activities in total of 227 thousand. zł, out of which less than 30,000 for the purchase of bee mothers and rootstocks. zł. So that here it would be good to annex the agreement and seek a transfer of these funds. Potentially this amount may be amended. And now, unfortunately, in the case of these bad winters, the wintering of hives, we do not have a natural disaster at national level, and therefore there is no legal basis for helping to eliminate such damage. That's all I have to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u60	Thank you. I would like an additional question from Mrs Ewa Drozd.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u61	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Beekeepers' problems, as far as bees are concerned, have been known for many years, and unfortunately, from year to year, these problems are increasing. As the Minister has also had the opportunity to say, many of the reasons that lead to this are well known, but there are also many that we do not know, so there is no way to prevent the causes of such events. The purchase of the mothers that the Minister was talking about, only partially solves this problem, and I don't think it's the most important thing. So isn't it worth it, Minister, to think about separating the reserve so-called. an ambulance within a functioning support fund that beekeepers could benefit from, and who have just been in such a difficult situation that we are talking about today? [[♪ The bell ♪]] All the more so because such assistance is needed immediately at a certain time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u62	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister Ewa Lech.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u63	Of course, what you are talking about would be a good thing, but I would like to say that under this national support programme it is possible to modify this programme. He has already been modified with the involvement of bee associations and associations, so that I think we will be going in this direction. And that's all I can say. This, on the other hand, is a good point, and we will reflect on it and lean on it. Thank you. [[Do we know the reasons, Minister?]] No, we don't. If there were cause known, it would be easier. [[The Puławy tested the samples?]] No, we don't. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, the problem is that beekeepers don't always report, they don't always give bees to study. I figured out why, but this isn't the place... [[These are the costs. It costs a lot of money.]] Yeah, right. [[Maybe it's worth funding for.]] There's a multi-annual program. There's a pool of samples there, it's not big, but it's funded by a multi-annual program. Although this pool of samples is not large, it is not yet used for testing. [[I mean, we don't know if it's disease or chemistry?]] We've gotten used to the fact that varroza is all over the country, but I just... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] We'll think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u64	Thank you, Minister. The next question was raised by Andrzej Kryj, Anna April and Catherine Chechara of Law and Justice. The question on the measures planned by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development for fruitors, gardeners and farmers affected by frosts in April and May 2017 was addressed to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. Please, Mr Andrzej Kryj.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u65	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The recent weeks have brought unquoted, extremely strong frosts, which have twice visited significant areas of Poland. They affected, among others. Świętokrzyskie voivodship, e.g. Sandomierz region, Mazowieckie, e.g. Grójecko-Warecki region, Lubelskie, Podkarpackie region or Opolskie region. The first wave of frosts from April 16 to 17 was not so severe yet, but the second wave, which came from May 9 to May 10, when the temperature dropped even to 8°C, had a fatal effect. These frosts have made flowers of trees and fruit bushes frozen in many places and other early crops have been dreamed of, e.g. potatoes or rape. At the moment, the estimate of losses is ongoing, but the assessments that have already taken place make it possible to conclude that these losses can be huge and that many farms may be threatened with bankruptcy. Berries, peaches, apricots, plums are those species that are already known to produce almost 100% of the crop. smaller. This will result in the terrible situation of many Polish farms and there will be a spectrum of their bankruptcy. With this in mind, we would like to ask the question: What measures does the Ministry plan to take in favour of farms affected by the frosts of April and May? Many farms have borrowed loans that will have to be repaid. Does the Ministry have the possibility to speak to banks [[♪ The bell ♪]] to extend payment deadlines, to repay these loans? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u66	Thank you. Please respond to Mr Rafał Romanowski's Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The subject was raised repeatedly. As the Member rightly pointed out, this wave of frosts, which appeared in mid-April and later on the night of 9 to 10 May, was severely affected primarily by fruiting, gardening, but the losses are also anticipated in such normal plant production, and in autumn sowings, and spring sowings. So we can expect really quite large amounts here in terms of the losses incurred this year. At the moment, we are working a committee that estimates the losses, but here we are still very strongly appealing to local authorities to ask the voivods to appoint such committees as soon as possible, and to the committee itself, so that they can do so as quickly as possible. In many cases such a situation arose, because it was possible to expect such an atmospheric phenomenon which occurred just in the first decade of May, because it is an atmospheric phenomenon described in academic manuals as so-called. Cold gardeners, and this applies to the territory of Germany and the territory of Poland, and such a situation could arise, these committees at that time did not go out to estimate losses so that they simply did not duplicate this work. At the moment these losses are valued, this is the information from yesterday, at PLN 46 million. It's a loss of more than 70%. in a given crop, and it should be noted that earlier, i.e. by 2015, government aid was directed to those farmers who were 70% losses throughout the holding. We have changed this to 70% in a given crop so that this aid is more open, more accessible to those farmers who are suffering losses due to negative weather phenomena. Such an amendment of the Regulation entered into force in 2016. This aid will be addressed to those farmers who had such losses in 2017. Of course, the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture has a current agreement on preferential loans with eight banks. All information on the possibility of receiving these loans can be found, among others. on the website of the restructuring agency. Such assistance shall be granted each year, the President of the Agency shall sign such an agreement. The President of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund, at the individual request of the farmer who has just suffered losses on the farm, can spread out on instalments, may extend the contribution, may also cancel the contribution. The President of the Agricultural Property Agency on the basis of the Act on the Management of Agricultural Real Estate of the State Treasury may defer or extend payments for sales contracts or lease of land from the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury into instalments. It also depends on the good will of local government officials, because under the Act Tax Order local government officials, i.e. the mayors, mayors or presidents of the cities where the agricultural land is located, can postpone, extend or cancel the so-called. agricultural tax. In addition, as I mentioned, in response to Mr Maliszewski's question, I assure you that if these losses are already valued, the committees will complete their work and the protocols will flow to us, we will, on the basis of the valuation of these losses, direct the aid to all those farmers who have suffered losses of 70%. Surely such support for these farmers will be addressed. It should also be remembered that negative weather phenomena did not end in April, did not end in May, because it is still June and July. There could be hail, there could be hurricanes, strong winds, heavy rains. As regards those risks, which are very heavily outlined in the 2005 Act, farmers still have the possibility to cover these risks. For the first time in the state budget there is almost PLN 1 billion of support for these farmers. We add 65% to every risk. , not 50% , as before, so that this aid is adequate to primarily promote this aid and the universality of agricultural insurance. If farmers are not insured, no aid addressed to them will be able to offset or cover the losses incurred in specific crops. We are aware of the losses incurred mainly by the gardeners and gardeners, as well as the losses in plant production, but above all the most urgent is the valuation of these losses. Only then will concrete government assistance be addressed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u68	Thank you very much. The additional question is asked by Mrs Anna April. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! You have already mentioned here in your statement the important role of local governments in assessing losses. I would like to ask you, Minister, to bring us closer to how this cooperation looks like, because without this cooperation, this aid to farmers, which, of course, farmers are counting on and waiting for, will probably not be so fast or so specific.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u70	Thank you. Please, Minister Rafał Romanowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! To be honest, this question should be addressed more from the left of this plenary room of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. In this respect, aid is essential for local authorities. From the very beginning, we have raised, even at video conferences with voivodships, in voivodship crisis management centers, so that as soon as possible there will be committees to estimate losses. The procedure is as follows. It's the mayor, the president of the city, who's applying to his local voivodeship for such a committee. The governor shall appoint such a committee and only then may this committee proceed to work. We raised in writings to voivodships, at individual meetings with voivodships, so that we would not wait too long for these issues to be resolved practically within 24 hours. There really was a lot of activity on the voivodship side. If such a request was received, this was considered very urgently. Nor can we allow the local government to meet with the judges in the southern part of the Mazowieckie voivodship, also with the parliamentarians, as regards this situation which occurred in mid-April, concerning the first negative temperatures which had a three-day cycle, discussing the losses suffered, and from the southern Mazovia voivodships affects one application to the voivode of Mazovian voivodeship from one commune to establish such a municipal commission. Therefore, going beyond any political dispute about the discussion, unnecessary discussion, we requested that the local authorities nevertheless take a favourable look at the farmers' requests and that such committees be set up as soon as possible. It is only these committees, I will repeat myself, they value these losses, and we, on the basis of the protocols of these committees, will direct specific assistance. It should be noted here that for the first time in history something like this happened, that all committees work on a single protocol pattern, on an interactive pattern, so that this protocol is filled efficiently, so that it does not duplicate errors, so that it lasts as short as possible and that it is as mobile as possible. [[Applause]] [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u72	I, too, thank you, Minister. We move on to another question, formulated by Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka, Krzysztof Gadowski and Paweł Bańkowski from the Civic Platform on a government bill regulating the right to a coal debt for pensioners and miners. The question is addressed to the Minister of Energy. Please, first question, Mr. Krzysztof Gadowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u73	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The monetary equivalent or carbon depot for coal has been a source of emotion for many years. Today we are in the restructuring phase, this is another element. This equivalent was received or suspended as early as 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017. There was a group of pensioners who received this equivalent from the State, and there was a group whose equivalent was paid by some coal companies. In general, there are more people to whom you take than those to give. In addition, the restructuring resulted in miners being transferred together with part of the mine to the mine restructuring company, and these people, retiring from the machine, receive cash from the automaton. There are coal companies that pay the coal equivalent themselves. We have touched on this subject many times, we talked about it in January 2015, in 2016. I asked you a question myself from that courthouse. The Lord then promised and emphasized: indeed, the matter is not quite clear, it needs to be sorted out. You have declared the rise of a specialty. We talked about it, you said that the Ministry of Energy would lean on it, including the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. And so every month I write to you information, I get answers, you say all the time: we work, we work. Once the finance minister examines, then you examine. We, Members, receive hundreds, thousands of writings in which mining pensioners demand our actions, requests and reactions to make this bill appear. We remember that in 2014 Minister Tchórzewski said: if he had an equivalent [[♪ The bell ♪]] it should be eliminated, it should be taken over by the state, as it did in the case of railroaders. The railroads today have 255,000. The railroadmen...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u74	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u75	...they receive the equivalent and the amount of PLN 400 million. I ask you, what about equality for the same hardworking people...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u76	Okay, sir, don't exceed the time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u77	...for the mine. When's this bill gonna be? When are you going to introduce her and we're going to have a debate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u78	Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy by Mr Grzegorz Tobiszowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u79	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I do indeed share, as I have always believed, the view that this is a matter that should be regulated. As far as our Ministry of Energy is concerned, I would like to remind you that actually, as I said last year, with the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, we have prepared an appropriate bill. On 25 October 2016, she was placed under the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers. There was an idea that he could make a paycheck once. It went to a public consultation. As we know - because it is already settled - this proposal did not gain acceptance of the social side and it returned to the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers on 27 January. I have here the minutes of this meeting that the Ministry of Energy, as I said, fulfilled its promises, prepared the relevant law, submitted it. The findings of this Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers are that, by July, this project will be re-examined and a proper decision taken on the continuation of the procedure. So that as far as the Ministry of Energy is concerned, we are in the position - which is why we have prepared this project - that this issue should be regulated in a one-off way, and so we adopted in last year's replies and this year in the project that people will receive ZUS payments, using an appropriate conversion factor, and will be covered by all groups that have the right to a deputy, both those that have a deputy paid by companies and those that have been suspended. On the other hand, in reply as a representative of the Ministry of Energy, I would like to say that we have complied with our commitment by submitting a proposal to the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers, because this process is required for the implementation of the relevant law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u80	Thank you. I would like to ask the additional question of Mrs Mrzygłocka and Mr Bańkowski for a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u81	Minister! That sounds a little like a promise. There was a debate on 9 June 2016. You promised. Then in November 2016 we asked a question. You promised. Today is May. So? Nothing. The miners have had enough. Please tell me when the deputies will be paid and whether the government intends to compensate the lost benefits to the miners for the years in which the payments were suspended.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u82	Minister! What about the pensioners from Tauron Extraction in Jaworzno, whose board of directors suspended the payment of coal deposits this year? Does this law also provide for a change in the basis for calculating deputies, as is the case with railway pensioners, who currently have about 200 PLN higher price for coal sales than those who worked in the coal mining industry for many years? And what is the Minister going to tell the retired and the Renticists of the mining industry who are going to Warsaw to protest in June this year, what next with these deputies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u83	Thank you. Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u84	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for your concern, especially for the parliamentarians of the Civic Platform on promises, because, as I recall, deputies have been suspended in the years of your government, but I think it is good that you are now expressing this concern and taking such great care of the miners, and this has not been the concern and this, I would say, is an interest in the industry in the years 2007 and 2015. On the other hand, I would like to say and maintain that the Ministry of Energy has submitted an appropriate project and how you know the legislative procedure and the government procedure, you know that the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers is one of the stages of the bill's approval. I have always represented the Ministry of Energy here, and I maintain that our Ministry and the Ministry of Care and Family have prepared an appropriate project, he is ready and this content is available because we have published it because we are after an inter-ministerial consultation. And just a discussion at the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers, where we have one vote as the Ministry, has made this deadline of procedure postponed, as I mentioned, around June. We hope that this issue will be resolved by July. However, Tauron's employees Extraction and everyone are covered by this regulation, as is the case in this law, according to the corresponding conversion rate, in particular for 1 t, is, from what I remember, 1300-1400 PLN per person, something about that, because there is a conversion rate. Everyone in all companies is to be covered by this regulation and it is in our law, in the Ministry of Energy law prepared. I would like to ask you very much to note that the Ministry of Energy, as we have announced, the project prepared, has put this into inter-ministerial discussions. Today we have a settlement at the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much. [[Will there be compensation? Minister, will there be compensation?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u85	Thank you, Minister. [[Minister, will there be compensation?]] Madame, you will clearly no longer have an answer. [[There's a minute left.]] The next question was raised by Mr Beata Mazurek, Mr Piotr Łukasz Babiarz and Mr Bernadet Krynicka from Law and Justice. It concerns the progress of the implementation of the new disability card model and the provision of adequate financial resources for this purpose. The question is addressed to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Please, the question is asked by Mr Piotr Łukasz Babiarz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u86	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! The environment of people with disabilities has been calling for years for a change in the model of disability IDs or their degree. In the opinion of people with disabilities, the existing cards were too large and awkward and, above all, easily destroyed. They also failed to fulfil their utility qualities, even though they were practically unrecognizable to blind people. Despite legitimate environmental demands, it was only in September 2015 that the law was amended in such a way that a modern document confirming disability could be prepared. Unfortunately, the regulations introduced by the Sejm of the previous term of office do not specify many issues or would make it difficult to prepare and implement a new model of legitimacy. In July 2016, amending the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, was postponed by changing the period of vacathio legis from 1 October 2016 to 1 August 2017. In view of the fact that this deadline is approaching, and given that work on the possibility of disabled persons using a modern document is ongoing, I would ask you very much to indicate at what stage of the procedure there are work on the implementation of the new model of the card of the disabled person.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u87	Thank you. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Krzysztof Michałkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question concerns the identity card of persons with disabilities. It has long been reported by the environment of people with disabilities, the need to introduce a new model of ID, new ID cards. In fact, the amendment to the Act on Professional and Social Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities in 2015 announced such a procedure. Unfortunately, financial resources were not secured for 2016, so the family, labour and social policy committee postponed the entry into force of the card to 1 August 2017. At the moment, work on launching the exchange process and issuing new IDs is very advanced and I think, I'm sure that this deadline on August 1 is not at risk. The first thing we must do is, of course, amend the regulation of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Labour and Social Policy of 15 July 2003 on the judgment on disability and disability, which contains a model of legitimacy. On the other hand, we have also started work, responding to the expectations of the environment of people with disabilities, over the legitimacy itself. On the one hand, we have identified the possibilities of printing and, of course, the prices in the various institutions that can print this. On the other hand, we have announced a competition for the design of the graphic design of the card banner. On 4 May, on the websites of our Ministry and the Office of the Government Plenipotentiary for Disabled Persons, a competition was announced for the execution of the design of the graphic design of the identity card of a disabled person. We have published the rules of the competition together with the annexes setting out the detailed rules and the way in which it is organised. This design of the graphic design will appear as a model in the legal acts, printed on the card sheet, as well as used in information, promotion and training activities. The competition we announced is open. Participants in the competition may also be persons who are not fully capable of legal activities. Each participant may submit one project. Of course, in the competition we also specified the minimum conditions that the design of the graphic design must meet, i.e. that it should be designed in accordance with current design trends, so that it is aesthetic, original, modern, but also to guarantee the possibility of producing a document. In the first stage, the jury will evaluate the formal and substantive projects, in the second stage selected by the chapter the projects will be voted by the environment of the disabled, and in the third stage the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy will make the final choice of the project in order to settle the competition. The first part of the contest is over. 19 projects were submitted. In a moment we will look at which of these projects the environment of people with disabilities thinks is interesting, which prefers, and we will choose the final shape, the appearance of legitimacy. The author of this project, which will be selected for implementation, also guarantees the award of the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. The prize was provided for an amount of 5 thousand. zł.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u89	We can move on to the extra question, right? Please, Mrs. Bernadette Krynicka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u90	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As we know, the 2016 Budget Act does not provide for funds to finance the production and personalisation and distribution of card blanks, as well as the creation of an electronic system intended to carry out activities related to the issue of cards. The county authorities are also looking forward to technical support for the acceptance of applications and the issue of legitimacy. I therefore have a question: Has the corresponding financial resources been secured for this purpose for 2017? Two more questions. Persons with disabilities and organisations representing them expect that the card will not only be aesthetic and durable, but will also have adequate safeguards against unauthorised use or counterfeiting. Are and what safeguards are provided for use in the case of a card? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one more thing. The identification of a disabled person will entitle to relief, e.g. in communication. In order to verify the actual right to these allowances, it is appropriate to include in this card the necessary personal data which, however, will not be available to unauthorised persons. It goes on for example. about the degree of disability or its kind. And I have a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u91	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u92	There's only one sentence left.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u93	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u94	What personal data will be included in the ID card, how is the protection of personal data protected? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u95	Thank you. Minister Krzysztof Michałkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u96	Thank you. Minister! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! In fact, what I already mentioned before - although the provisions of the Act have changed as regards the new model of the card of a disabled person for 2017, there is no provision in the 2016 Budget Act to finance the task. Therefore, it was decided by the Committee on Family, Labour and Social Policy to postpone the entry into force of these amendments to the Act on 1 August 2017. Of course, we were watching - and the committee, and the Ministry at the planning stage of the 2017 budget. - so that the funds for this purpose are secured. They are included in the special-purpose reserve under item 38: Funds for the financing of tasks carried out by disability boards, for the execution of a parking card and for the exercise of the card of a disabled person. In the explanatory memorandum we also pointed out that not only the cost of the card must be taken into account, but also the printing and handling costs of providing these cards to disabled persons. Therefore, as it will only be less than half a year, for 2017, 10 million PLN was foreseen for costs and printing, and service. As far as the second question is concerned, of course, we made sure that the legitimacy at the negotiation stage... Where will it be printed? It will be printed, we hope, in the Polish Securities Printing Works due to the fact that there are printed the most important documents that have adequate safeguards. The card will also contain various types of security features: it will be printed on a polycarbonate card, it will be laser engraved, it will be a relief print, it will be used microprint, it will also be an irys printing, the name of the card will also be written with Braille, so that people with disabilities know that it is a card that shows that they are disabled people, it will be color changed optically, light elements and QR code. This QR code is important because, on the one hand, we want the card to contain, because it will serve different purposes, all necessary data, and on the other hand, we want it to protect sensitive data from being read too easily by outsiders. That's why this presentation of data will be used. [[♪ The bell ♪]] special technologies and in addition to a photo of a person, name, names will be included in this code sensitive data. Of course, there will be free applications that will allow you to read personal data by reading the QR code. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u97	Thank you, Minister. The next question - the last one - was formulated by Jerzy Gosiewski, Jerzy Małecki and Adam Oldakowski from Law and Justice. The question on the date of starting work on the national road no. 16 on the section Borki Wielkie - Mrągowo - Mikołajki - Orzysz is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. I would ask you to ask Mr Jerzy Gosievski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u98	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, When will work on the S16 road on Borki Wielkie - Mrągowo - Mikołajki - Orzysz? Will they begin, and if so, what is the timetable for this work? The S16 national road during the PO-PSL rule was like a disappearing ghost. When Prime Minister Kopacz came to us, the S16 road appeared in the programme of modernization of roads and highways, when she left, this road was deleted. Luckily, the illusory PO-PSL rule disappeared and the S16 road remained. The S16 road is the backbone of Warmia and Mazury. The plans to modernise this road date back to the 1980s. Mrs. Ewa Kopacz Just before the end of her term of office, in 2015, she assured us, the people of Warmia and Mazury, that everything is ready and the work will begin soon. It's been over two years and no one's put a shovel in the ground. The S16 road connects the west with the east of Warmia and Mazury, which runs, among others. by Mrągowo, to which, according to the song, all roads lead. Mrągowo is the place of many festivals, including border music, during which Poles from Kresów can show us how culture and patriotism are promoted on the other hand. From Mrągowo the roads to Reszl, Kętrzyn, Pisza, Giżycka, Węgorzewa, Olecka and Gołdapi depart. National, voivodship and district roads linking Mrągowo with these cities, as well as the S16 road itself are very winding and are in very poor condition. A few years ago, the PO-PSL government stopped the modernization of the S16 road in Borki Wielki before entering the area of the district of Mrągowski. It's been a few years, and despite the assurances made by former Prime Minister Kopacz, nothing happens here. Minister! ♪ When it's going to continue ♪ [[♪ The bell ♪]] modernization of the S16 road with parameters of express road on the sections from Borek Wielki to Mrągów and further through Mikołajki to Orzysz along with the bypasses of these cities?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u99	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u100	What's the schedule for these sections of the S16 road? Are the planned modernizations of this and other roads...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u101	Mr President, I apologize, but time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u102	I'm almost done. Will the planned modernizations of this and other roads in our region include the elimination of hundreds of dangerous turns? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u103	Thank you. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction of Mr Jerzy Szmit.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Gentlemen! Maybe before I discuss the situation on the construction of the S16 expressway, I will say a few words about the implemented road investments in the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship at all. In the course of the implementation are the key sections of the road S7, starting with the ostródzki junction, then the section between Olsztyn and Olsztyn, the section between Napierków and the border of the voivodship - in general section S7 from the border of the voivodship within the Warmia-Mazury voivodeship. All these constructions should be completed by the end of the year, which will already radically change the transport situation, the situation of communication availability, especially the central and western parts of the Warmia-Mazury voivodship. I would also like to say that the S16 road is an extremely important communication artery not only for the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship, but also for north-eastern Poland. It is also included in the TEN-T complementary network and therefore has European values. Episode Borki Wielki - Mrągowo. On 5 August 2016, the tender procedure was announced, the subject of which is the development of a programme concept for the construction of the expressway on this section, together with the Mrągów ring road on the national road No 59. On 27 January this year a contract was signed with the contractor, Transprojekt Gdański, for PLN 3.3 million. According to the terms of the contract, the contractor has 15 months to implement the concept of the road program along with the ring road on Route 59. So we say within 15 months of January. It's been four months. So I hope that maybe this year, or maybe the next year, maybe in 2018 we will have this basic document, namely study, programming concept, and then we will be able to start further work. But here is a relatively simple situation, because we already know what the timetables are and how the work is going. As far as the next episode is concerned, Mrągowo - Orzysz - Ełk, so the shortness of Mrągowo with the east of Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship, with Elk, this is the situation. On 14 February 2017, the tender procedure was announced, the subject of which is the development of a technical and environmental study with elements of the programme concept for the construction of the expressway in the section Mrągowo - Orzysz - Ełk. On April 27th, a month ago, the tender was opened. The analysis and evaluation of offers submitted is currently underway. Let us hope that in June we will be able to sign the agreement for this basic study. It is also worth remembering that the estimated cost of this section is PLN 4.5 billion, so we are talking about really gigantic money, and the length is 115 km. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, whether this investment can be realised will be largely dependent on the people of Warmia and Mazury. To the extent that public agreement is necessary in order to agree on the course of this route. There are a number of such investments in Poland, which are blocked by appeals against environmental decisions, mainly from environmental decisions, but also at other stages of implementation. Not long ago we were glad that after 7 years we managed to obtain an environmental decision and set off with the construction of the S7 road in the vicinity of Skarżyska-Kamienna. I have said this many times, that here we will have to deal with a similar process, i.e. 42 variants of this route have been proposed, taking into account the huge environmental wealth, the richness of nature, which is in these surroundings, in the heart of Mazury, in the vicinity of the great Masurian lakes. This trial is ahead of us. If we talk wisely here, if we are looking for a solution in good faith, then, I think, this work will follow the plan and we will be able to talk about the realization of this task in the foreseeable future, that is to say, this path will finally arise. However, if there are endless appeals, protests, unfortunately this road will simply not be built, because there is no other possibility. Without important environmental decisions, this is not possible. Therefore, I encourage all those who today are seeking to build this road to join in this process, and to help the general management, to help all those who will work out this decision to join in with a positive contribution. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u105	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you an additional question by Mr Jerzy Małecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u106	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The inhabitants of the central-eastern part of Warmia and Mazury are very patient because they have been waiting 40 years for their path to the S16. The road S16, as well as the access roads to Mrągów, both national, voivodeship and district roads, mostly have a bad surface, are covered with trees, very curved, with very poor visibility. I'm just going to give you three examples. The partially renovated section of approx. 20 km of road 59 between the Courts and the Wilkas is over 100 different turns. In this over half of the length there are double continuous lines. Road 600 from Mrągowo via Rybno to Szczytno, which connects the north of the region with the airport in Szymany, is still fatal. By the district road Mrągowo - Reszel, between the Polish Village and Gąwa, there is a sports field to which children reach or reach, and the access road is curved, overgrown and practically invisible. This is a huge threat to the lives and health of young people. Self-governments shift responsibility. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What kind of action will the Minister, together with the local authorities, take to eliminate the risks on the roads of the Central-Eastern part of Warmia and Mazury and to start coherent action to significantly improve road infrastructure in our region? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u107	Thank you. Minister Jerzy Szmit.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, About this most important road of war. Warmińsko-Mazurskie, heading east-west, or S16, I already spoke in the first part of my speech. On the other national roads, which actually have a lot in our voivodship, fortunately, there are also various modernization and repair works. Maybe I'll start with the eastern part of the voivodship. Route 65 running from Gołdapi through Olecko to Ełk will be upgraded throughout its length as part of the modernization, as part of the reconstruction to adapt this road to a load capacity of 11,5 t. I would also like to mention a few investments that are already under way today, and which are particularly important in this area. Improving road safety on national road section 65 in Olecko, improving road safety on road section 63 Borki - border of the voivodship within the I think that this section has been asked by the honourable Member, so work is already underway, they are prepared, I think the invitation to tender has already been announced, and therefore this issue, I think, will be settled in the foreseeable future. The construction and implementation of the bridge on the Łuczański Canal in Giżycko during the national road No. 59, the extension of the national road No. 51 in the Good City or - here also a bow towards Mrągów - the Mazury cycle loop. Here, too, decisions have been signed that will support the local government in building the Warmia cycle loop on those sections that run on national roads. Here we cooperate with local governments of particular areas, which are responsible for the roads in a given district or in a given municipality. However, I would like to present data on the activity of the district of Mrągowski as part of an effort to obtain support from government resources. In 2016, in the previous year, the district of Mrągowski did not submit any proposals concerning the One application was submitted this year. It is, unfortunately, in a rather low position. Let's hope there's enough resources. Nevertheless, this assessment indicates that it was not properly prepared. So I think there must be a joint effort here, both by the government, which, I think, is doing everything it can with regard to the expansion of the road network, repair and modernisation, [[♪ The bell ♪]] as well as self-government, which I very much urge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u109	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u110	Thank you, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information on the effects of the tax system sealing and its impact on the level of budgetary revenue requested by Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be considered at this meeting of the Sejm. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Jacek Sasin.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club requested information on the measures taken by the government to seal the tax system. The inefficient tax system, in fact, can be said to be the collapse of the tax collection we have observed over the past years, is one of the main problems that the government inherited from Prime Minister Beata Szydło after the previous governments of the Civic Platform and PSL. At the same time, we have concluded surprisingly, it can be said that the lack of response from individual, successive government finance ministers of PO-PSL to the fact that this tax gap has continued to increase and the extent of this tax due, which did not affect the state budget, has been increasing. What kind of problem are we talking about? Maybe a few numbers. Firstly, with regard to the grey zone, i.e. the whole area of turnover which is not checked and is not actually taxed, its size in Poland is indeed record for other countries of the European Union. There are various estimates of the grey zone, but at least the World Bank estimates the size of the grey zone in Poland as much as PLN 450 billion, that is about 1/4 of the total GDP. Other estimates are slightly smaller, but also huge. Ernst & Young estimates that this is 12.4% GDP, or about PLN 214 billion. This, of course, translates into tax revenue, because in this situation, only with this less respect, about PLN 40 billion of tax due from PIT and CIT did not affect the state budget. Similar estimates are presented by the Polish institutions. The Supreme Audit Chamber, which carried out the audit in this respect, showed that only disclosed VAT, which was not paid in 2015, was PLN 42 billion. And this unpaid VAT curve was growing rapidly. I will show the High House the chart that was included in this report by the NIK. He shows how the amount of unpaid VAT was growing. At the same time, there was no action in this area, as I said. Moreover, this drop in tax revenues was shifted to citizens, whether by raising taxes, above all VAT, the basic rate, to 23%, or raising retirement age and not carrying out very important social programmes, which were only possible after the Law and Justice elections were won. Ladies and gentlemen! You can see at the moment the first effects of these seals, you can see how the budget deficit is decreasing, because after the first quarter we have a record low deficit execution, it is at the level of less than PLN billion, 900 million PLN. This seems to be the result of these positive actions. I'll just remind you to show the background that it was much worse in the previous years. In the record year 2013, after the first quarter, the budget deficit was PLN 31 billion. That's what it looks like when it comes to the difference we're seeing right now. I would therefore like to ask the government four questions. First, how did tax revenues increase between January and April 2017? We remember that in the budget there was a clear increase in tax revenue, by around 3%, of all tax revenue, and from VAT alone by 11%. Do these results of the first quarter allow us to assume that the expected growth will be achieved? What was the increase in value added tax in January-April 2017? What factors have changed the level of income from goods and services tax in the period January-April 2017? So what was the impact of the statutory changes that had been introduced, such as the fuel package, which, as we hear, had a very clear positive impact on the revenue of the state budget in this regard? ♪ And finally ♪ [[♪ The bell ♪]] on the basis of tax data, can real symptoms of tax sealing be observed? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u112	Thank you, sir. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr. Paweł Gruza.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for asking. I am pleased to provide you with information on the increase in budget revenue from the various tax sources of the state budget. Before I present the dry numbers, I'd like to give them a little bit of an indication of where it came from. According to us, the increase in revenue, tax, is due to the clear determination of the government, the Ministry of Finance in particular, in reducing the pathology of the tax system, the theoretical tax system that we have been dealing with for a long time. We show initiative, commitment and efficiency both on the legislative side and by adopting modern or proven international solutions, we demonstrate operational efficiency through the new formula of the National Tax Administration, but we also try to inform taxpayers and warn them against entering the pathologies that are taking place in our tax system. We are too late for the countries of our region by about 4 and 5 years. The Czech Republic and Slovakia, which I have recently had the opportunity to consult with, are four to five years ahead of all the solutions that we are introducing very intensively today, with full commitment, but these delayed actions, when you look at the whole state, have caused the situation that we need to unearth ourselves from a much worse tax hole than they do, because their sealing actions have caused the migration of pathologies to Poland as a jurisdiction that is easy to extort, for example, VAT. We are therefore carrying out holistic measures on all taxes. It is difficult to talk about the reasons for CIT or PIT sealing in isolation from VAT. We see cross-effects in terms of the fact that, even if the VAT JPK creates more discipline on the part of income taxes, greater discipline on the side of corporate income taxes causes more money to be paid to employees in official form, resulting in an increase in PIT income, and thus holistic measures have a systemic dimension and lead to an increase in budgetary revenue. This is no surprise, because the tax systems of the countries are not designed by chance, they are constructed just so that one tax looks at the other and the whole system is supposed to work smoothly. That's why we holistically perceive this problem and move forward. In some respects, we are chasing the neighbouring or Western countries. This is the case with the JPK VAT basic instrument, which is submitted electronically by entrepreneurs for the time being the largest, ultimately all. We are chasing the countries of our region in the field of online fiscal cash registers, which cause phenomenal sealing in our neighbours in the south. These are modern technologies that these countries have implemented or implemented. Unfortunately, it is only now that we have to make up for this delay. There are some layers of our actions that are completely ahead of what is happening in Europe. I mean the split payment mechanism according to this Polish idea based on banking systems and a separate class of accounts in which VAT can move safely for entrepreneurs, ensuring both the safety of trading for ordinary entrepreneurs and the safety of public finances. The system is intended to prevent what has been happening for many years in connection with the export of VAT due abroad. In total, Poland is deprived of any instruments that could bring this VAT back to Poland. We also have proposals for so-called. aggressive tax optimization. Here we are again operating on many levels. Firstly, we inform taxpayers so as to give them an opportunity, an opportunity to correct their accounts when we are clearly dealing with fictional structures that simply allow them not to pay income tax, and thus these companies, once, abuse, so to speak, trust in the fiscal, and, on the other hand, unfairly compete with the competition that pays this tax. We are trying to create a secure ecosystem for businesses, safe and fair as regards tax burdens. We are introducing whether we have a legislative proposal ready to disclose these mechanisms of aggressive tax optimization. Commissioner Moscovici recently proposed to start this type of work at European Union level. We are advanced in the process of preparing these solutions and I hope that next week the project will be made public. This also aims to align the playing field for small businesses that do not have the possibility to optimize international taxes like market leaders. These are actions that I think are ahead of... This split payment mechanism, the disclosure mechanism of aggressive tax optimization, these mechanisms are things that allow us a little bit to overtake the jurisdiction of our region in terms of building safe space, fair for entrepreneurs. Interestingly enough, and we also talked about this with international organisations, it turns out that our sealing activities, at least some of them, meet with a lot of support from industry organisations. The number of pathologies in the system so far was such that it was difficult to conduct business honestly, and industry organisations even support us in the rapid implementation of these improvements, which, I say, we welcome. The cost of these seals is certainly not on the side of economic growth, because this one is doing well. Therefore, before I move on to dry figures, I would like to ask Parliament's sympathy to proceed with our subsequent legislative proposals and those already in the legislative process. And the dry facts are clear and quite boring, if I say so,: VAT revenue in January April 2016 increased by 34%, i.e. about PLN 14.5 billion, excise tax revenues higher by 3.6 years per year, i.e. about 0.7 billion, PIT revenues higher by 7.6% year-to-year, i.e. by 1.1 billion, and CIT revenues higher by 15% year to year, or about 1.7 billion. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u114	Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Do any of you, ladies and gentlemen of the House wish to enlist and speak in this part? Because we have only 28 people entered, or maybe 30, filling in all the time. So if there's anyone else, you're welcome. In this situation, I'm not closing the list yet. We'll wait a moment. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Save the Owl.]] Then please report a willing person downstairs, because I am not writing down here, so maybe this way, please. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: No, no, I...]] I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Gosievski, the Law and Justice Club. Let me remind you that time is two minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u115	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, The whole tax extortion mechanism is one of the absolutely gigantic, biggest scandals that have happened in our country. The Government of Law and Justice is gradually taking effective measures to seal the tax system. The 2017 budget has a positive impact on the budget for: sealing the VAT system, introducing a anti-tax avoidance clause, combating the grey economy more effectively in the liquid fuel market, and introducing a single control file. Additional revenue will probably still be due to the Act on the exchange of tax information with other countries adopted this year. Further actions of the government are planned, among others. use of separate payments, which will be mandatory in certain sectors... [[How do you know that?]] ...but mostly voluntary. [[How do you know that?]] This mechanism is that the buyer pays the gross amount on the invoice in two tranches. The first amount equal to the net price shall be paid to the normal account of the seller, the second amount equal to the tax shall be paid to the special VAT account. The tax administration would also have access to such accounts. This solution has already been put in place with positive effect by Italy and the Czech Republic, which has been approved by the European Commission. Minister, how can this be appropriate for the implementation and planned legal changes of the amount of additional revenue in the prepared 2018 budget plan? Minister, has the Polish Government already requested permission from the European Commission to use a separate payment? What further action is the government planning to seal the tax system again? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u116	Thank you very much. Mrs Izabela Leszczyn, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u117	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! What we've heard so far from that podium about sealing the VAT system was a lie. Or it was the propaganda of success, and I'll tell you what it really is. When PiS was in power, he said that the tax system was sealed at 50, 70 billion, because it's enough not to steal. Besides, the accusations come very easily, especially the unfounded ones. How was last year? First of all, you haven't even downloaded the tax revenue you've planned for yourself. You had 3 billion PLN lower tax revenues. Secondly, you lied all year long that VAT collection was increasing, while December exposed this shameful truth that you held back VAT returns at the expense of entrepreneurs, and there was no VAT sealing last year. The increase in VAT revenues in 2016 was like GDP growth, and last year's economic growth was based on consumption, not on investments, because you killed them. VAT should be higher than GDP growth. Unfortunately, it wasn't. And thirdly, what may be most important, we will observe the effects of sealing this year, but, Minister, the elementary honesty tells us that this will be the results of the actions initiated by our government. After all, as the first action, you spoke of a uniform VAT control file. Professor Nykiel will tell you more about this. It is worth adding that the PiS did not vote for the introduction of the JPK, and today you are bragging about it as your own. Because you don't have any ideas, you came up with a brilliant idea. What's that? Well, the entrepreneur will send Minister Banasi a bank account report every day. I hope Minister Banas will start paying invoices for his mud baths by then. In summary, the PiS, to distinguish between a crook and an honest taxpayer, tells the entrepreneur to take off his pants every day. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's your VAT sealing system. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u118	Thank you very much. I see 29 people are finally on the list, so I'm closing the list. Now, please, Mr Sitarski, Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u119	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question concerns the tax on the donation received in the case of public collections of a pro bono character, for the public good. In accordance with the provisions of the acquired benefits, if they are transferred in the form of an act subject to inheritance tax and donations, they must be taxed. Is it true that, in the current legal situation, tax offices and tax chambers may, but do not have to comply with the order of the Minister of Finance not to collect such a tax in such an institution? At this point in time, the tax authorities are not uniform in their decisions. Who in WW. the case will decide that the tax charged may, however, be remitted? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u121	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Using an understandable comparison for all, it can be said that entrepreneurs are such a hen bearing the budget of golden eggs. So the condition of companies, how much time companies spend on doing their business, and how much red tape they have towards the state, depends on how many of these taxes will be in the budget. Unfortunately, the PiS government has decided to harass these entrepreneurs. You're doing this with a better case of consequence. You systematically impose new draconian burdens on business, impose burdensome and costly reporting obligations, burdensome monitoring obligations, destroy transport companies. Now you've come up with the idea that you'll have 24-hour bank statements delivered. You're forcing honest people to constantly provide evidence that they're honest. Minister, why don't you just stop them from doing business? Already industrial production has disappointed, in April dropped by 0.6% year to year, while the forecasts assumed even a 2% increase. Worse still, the month-to-month drop was 13.3%, while analysts expected a discount of only about 10%. These are dramatically bad news from the economy. Your ideas lead to the fact that entrepreneurs resign from doing business in Poland and move it abroad. And it's already completely bizarre that you're collecting all this data, but you've kicked systems so hard that you're not able to aggregate and use the information you collect, and the new tax administration is a Titanic. What you're bragging about, these supposed budget successes, they're in a lot of accounting because you're dragging tax returns. Ways for sustainable, not such an accounting increase in budget revenue are recorded in the Modern Programme. Minister, all you have to do is reach. This is, in short, a simplification of the tax system, a re-bureaucratisation of procedures, [[♪ The bell ♪]] tax reduction and treatment of entrepreneurs in partnership. Meanwhile, your so-called. simplification only causes further complications. You're gonna go down that road for a while and we're gonna be like Greece. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u122	Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Club Law and Justice. And thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u123	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I've just heard of such a horrible vision here... [[A real one.]] [[A voice from the room: True!]] ...that I'm almost scared. I'll read the title from the Wyborcza Gazeta: less than a billion zloty deficits and record tax receipts. Where did this result come from? And the rest I recommend you read. I wanted to ask you a question. Since the beginning of the year, VAT revenues amounted to PLN 57 billion. That's almost 34%. More than a year ago. There has also been a faster pace of economic growth - 4%. So I have a question for you. Is the increase in revenue from the tax on goods and services and faster economic growth due to the sealing of the tax system, or are there other reasons for this? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u124	Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u125	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! A similar speech by Minister Gruza took place an hour ago at the Economic Committee meeting. And now Mr Sasin and Mr Gruza present the situation as if the fight against tax fraud began when the PiS came to power. I would like to say that there is continuity in Poland, as in many other countries. Some of the things I said at the economic committee meeting, let me repeat it. It was the PO-PSL government that introduced the reverse charge in VAT. It was the PO-PSL government that led to the creation of a single control file. It was at that time that these regulations were adopted. Mr Gosievski says that there will be agreements for the exchange of tax information. A number of such agreements were concluded during the PO-PSL governments. Moreover, a number of information exchange clauses have been extended in existing agreements. Then work was also undertaken on the new Tax Order, which is continuing; hopefully we will see their happy finale. At that time, significant changes were also made to the transfer pricing rules, whether provision was made for CFCs or undercapitalisation. I agree with Mr Sasin that the rate is 23% It's outrageous. You're right. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. President. Why is she like this? Because PiS changed the bill that predicted that this stake would be different. I propose joint action to reduce this rate. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[But someone picked it up.]] [[The piss picked it up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u126	Thank you very much. Katarzyna Lubnauer, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! In fact, you still have a problem with certain indicators and announcements. I would like to remind you that in 2016, as announced by Minister Morawiecki, an increase of 3.8% was to take place. Finally, after the correction of the CUS it was 2,7%. At the same time, VAT collection - you announced 131 billion from VAT - was 126.6. What's more, the whole 11 months you've been mumbling the public with information that we have a higher VAT collection monthly than before. At the end of the year, it turned out that the collection rate was lower, it was lower in general because VAT revenues had increased, but at the same time consumption also increased. That means one thing. I wanted to ask, first of all, did you print the results for 11 months last year, and now you're going to continue to print the results so that you can fool the public that you're improving anything. That's the first question. Two. I wanted to ask you about the approach to entrepreneurs. In one of the programmes, I pointed out that this information on the increase in VAT collection is likely to be due to the fact that you are delaying reimbursements to businesses. At the time, I heard that you can't return business quickly, because you have to check whether the businessman is cheating by accident. So I wanted to ask you if you treat all entrepreneurs like potential frauds and criminals. Is this a law and justice policy for small and medium-sized enterprises? And another thing. If we have economic growth at the moment and you say we have a record high, I wanted to ask you when the basic rate of VAT will fall, which has been temporarily increased by the PO-PSL government... [[Sustained by the PiS.]] ...and which continues to be 23% Even though you've warned me it's going to be reduced. When will that be? Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u128	Mr Antoni Duda, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u129	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Supreme Audit Chamber in its report of April 2016 presented the results of the audit of the activities of the Ministry of Finance and its subordinate bodies in the fight against VAT fraud for 2014 and the first half of 2015. The scale of these frauds was huge and the activities of the Ministry of Finance NIK evaluated negatively. The report states that many abuses have been detected during this period, but the proceeds to the State Treasury from the amounts measured by the tax authorities are just, and here is a note, 1.3% of the amounts due. Questions. What is the current situation? What percentage of the amounts set by the tax authorities is actually enforced? What are the amounts? I'm talking about a period that was possibly included in this analysis. And finally, I turn to the opposition. Finally, accept that it is possible to rule effectively and to watch over the income of the state, not the selected groups. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[When's the VAT reduction?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u130	Thank you. Mrs Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u131	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! In this Chamber, Mrs Leszczyn and Mr Prof. Nykiel pointed out how many actions there were implemented so that the tax gap can be successfully closed. But at first, Mr Sasin frightened everyone because he estimated this gap and said, like the World Bank, that it was over PLN 450 billion. If you've agreed with such an estimate of the gap, today we should have a gap, 160 billion revenue to the budget, if you follow this lead or the trail of this scaring to the rest of us. We cannot agree with the Minister that the national tax administration is operating because the workers have not yet concluded employment contracts. And that 65 grand. people just wait for their contracts. It has increased, there is economic growth in the world and this trend is also affecting the Polish economy through the fact that entrepreneurs produce more. It's not entirely your fault. Your credit... our credit when we fought with you between 2005 and 2007 regarding the date of VAT refund... Let me remind you that we had the difficulty of breaking through to reduce from 120 days - in your country this was the deadline for VAT refund for entrepreneurs then, you imposed 120 days as a deadline for VAT refund - but we won the reduction of this upper limit to 60 days, between 25 and 60 days. And you're still holding the money for 60 days, so entrepreneurs are borrowing the budget. They're borrowing. He didn't show, you didn't say Minister: we shortened the deadline for VAT refund. What is the date of VAT refund? [[♪ The bell ♪]] As far as reversed VAT is concerned, the Civic Platform and PSL have started, the state simply uses it. For me, it is important and most important for entrepreneurs and for the development of the economy that the Minister tells you what you will do to shorten, and what you will do to reduce the VAT rate that you have increased, because the VAT rate has been set at 22% since 2017. That's your action - 23%. VAT. And these are actions to the detriment of entrepreneurs. [[It's just...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u132	Please, Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u133	Dear Marshal! Minister! In fact, the words about creative accounting were already here, and maybe I'll give you a few numbers. After all, the Minister uses the data for the first four months of this year, and I remind you that the settlement of the tax on goods and services takes place by the 25th day of the month following each month, and therefore the data for April can only be generated in principle, and therefore the actual use of this data is simply not appropriate. Here's another thing. Minister talks about the amount of alleged increase in VAT payments by PLN 14 billion. Minister, you have amended the Goods and Services Tax Act since 1 January 2017 and you have prevented quarterly settlement and, therefore, for one month, there is an additional VAT impact here, and one month of additional VAT impact is PLN 12 billion. So there's no success here in sealing the tax system. You are simply deceiving both the High House and all citizens. Another matter, Minister, is a uniform control file. Indeed, you are proud of these implementations of a single control file, but no further than in February, Minister Banas from this stand claimed that you did not have any analytical tools... [[They still don't.]] ...which will allow you to analyze the data you require from entrepreneurs, gradually expanding the range of entrepreneurs you require these data from. Moreover, the Minister of Finance now wants to introduce monitoring of bank accounts of entrepreneurs. You only impose obligations on entrepreneurs by masking your own inability. This isn't the way. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one last specific question. You were talking about tax optimization here. Please tell me: How many decisions did the Minister of Finance make under the Tax Optimization Prevention Act? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u134	Mr Waldemar Olejniczak, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u135	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Sealing the tax system is a very important issue both for the Polish budget and for the economic stability of Polish companies. According to statistics, only sales of diesel in the fourth quarter of 2016 in PKN Orlen increased by 26%. We understand that there is economic growth, that domestic demand is increasing, but these are indicators of 3 and 4%. , not 26. It can be concluded that this is the effect of an appropriate fiscal seal. This raises the question about other products, such as coal, gas, electronics, the nine-market industry - I mean magazines and bazaars from Tuszyna and Nadarzyna - or other sectors of the economy. Speaking of sealing the tax system, it is impossible not to ask about the effectiveness of the so-called operation. reverse VAT, for example, used in the distribution of steel. There is no doubt that sealing the fiscal system is an indispensable and expected element of stabilization of Polish companies, because artificial cost undercutting leads to chaos and consequently to eliminating honest companies from the market. A clear example of this is the transport and fuel industry, where the dishonest entrepreneur has significantly lower prices so-called. production contribution - in the case of a transport company it is fuel - and may lower prices, leading to dumping and unhealthy competition. To sum up, the previous authority said you weren't here, and I think that's why [[♪ The bell ♪]] has not introduced, has not launched an effective tax collection instrument. Small budget revenues are not the only damage. A much bigger problem is the destabilization of the economy, because the entrepreneur wants the system to be stable, readable and transparent. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Cichoń, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u137	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The old Polish maxim says: don't praise the day before sunset. Let's remember what you said a year ago about the revenue of the state budget, about tax revenues. Actually, it's the same as today. However, the effect is the failure of the State budget for 2016, in terms of tax revenue. There were 3 billion zlotys missing and this, by the way, is not a bad result. Not much, I wish you, Poland, that this year's result should not be worse. This result, in my opinion, is due to our actions and ours, and yours, and I do not want to argue here. However, if we are talking about evaluations, I would like to refer to the arsenal you use and use in the evaluations of our activities. You remember 340 billion losses, the PiS audit. About a year ago, May 11th, if I recall correctly, you introduced him. 340 billion was proof that the state did not exist. This is what you think Poland lost, the Poles lost, and you counted it so that you compared the revenue of the state budget, tax revenue in 2007, when the share in GDP of these revenues was 22.7%. , and you considered that the changes in this area stem from the negligence of the Civic Platform and PSL governments, 8 years, 340 billion. The same method I counted loss and loss of Poland and Poles for 2016. Over 140 billion for 1 year. [[Disgraceful!]] 140 billion [[♪ The bell ♪]] You lost, lost Poland and Poles. [[Applause]] Do you want me to repeat what words were coming out of that bleacher? Remember the empty invoices you were doing around it. 80 billion - this is what we discovered in 2015. What happened in 2016? 104 billion. Mr Sasin! Do you want to say what you said at the time? Would you like to say the same again? [[But how much did you download? How much have you recovered?]] And what's the cheatability of that? What's yours? Then ask me what your cheatability is. Out of 180 million of these 104 billion, the state budget was affected. Yeah, you guys are so effective and effective. Only it's abuse, it's manipulation. [[Applause]] You know that very well, but you want to repeat...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u138	Mr President, you are taking time away from your colleagues on the Platform. [[But we're not angry.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u139	...that kind of bullshit about Poland? You're welcome. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Mr Piotr Misilo, Modern Club. If we run out of time, the last person on the list will owe it to you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u140	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a very simple question. Recently, Prime Minister Morawiecki announced that he would like to introduce the obligation for all entrepreneurs to report daily bank statements for all accounts. I would like to ask, what is the purpose of this? Do you think that this will increase budget revenue? If so, what is it? How many employees must be employed to carry out such checks pragmatically, really, effectively? How much longer will the budget increase in your ministry for the employment of these workers? Three simple questions, I would very much ask for an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u141	Mr Zbigniew Biernat, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u142	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The revenue of the State budget in the first quarter of 2017 only from VAT increased by 34% compared to the previous year. The increase in income is also a reduction in the grey economy. This is the effect of sealing the tax system by the new legal regulations introduced by the Law and Justice Government. Not only did he introduce them, but he consistently implements them. It's a walk away from the so-called. a theoretical state in the days of the PO-PSL government. Minister, my question: What impact does the new obligation to submit VAT returns have on the rise in VAT revenue? How this affects the extension of the so-called. The reverse VAT mechanism, especially in the construction industry? What further steps will the government take to increase revenue and seal the tax system? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Rząsa, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u144	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I hope that the data presented today by the Minister is closer to the truth than information on the invoices of Minister Banasi for his stay in luxury hotels. Secondly, it is quite understandable that today's current information is meant to be used by the rulers to praise the sealing of the tax system. If this sealing was only about those who cheated on the fiscus, there wouldn't be a single person in this room who would test it. Unfortunately, Minister, the bullets from the department that you brought against fraudsters and criminals are ricocheting in honest Polish producers, entrepreneurs and traders. These are their companies, which have been successfully operating on the market for several decades, and have been victims of fiscal hierarchy. That's what they're constantly holding back payouts, VAT refunds, and finally they're under new obligations under the Tax Free procedure. I think that patching the budget hole with the money of Polish entrepreneurs on an unprecedented scale in free Poland is a short-sighted policy. A loud example today is the company MGM, which, despite the final judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court, has suspended the refund of VAT, as well as blocked accounts, resulting in a loss of liquidity and the need to declare bankruptcy. In this way, after 11 years of operation of a very good company, paying millions of zloty taxes each year, you have led to the loss of jobs. At the end, two questions, Minister. How much is the value of VAT and excise duty since the creation of the CAS? What's the size of their collection? I'm asking you to answer in writing. When the employees of the KAS are in professional stability and eventually find out where and in what positions will they work? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u146	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! My question is about investment. Unfortunately, we are seeing very negative trends in this area. Investment outlays of medium-sized and large Polish companies in 2016 amounted to more than PLN 120 billion, but unfortunately it was a much lower position than last year. This decrease was actually true for all voivodships outside the four that invested most of the money coming from the European Union. It's the only place we've seen a small increase. Unfortunately, this trend also persists in the first quarter. The investments amounted to PLN 21.6 billion and were 0.4% lower than a year ago. The biggest decrease in investment was in mining - due to the collapse of this industry we should not be particularly surprised - but also in transport and manufacturing, among others. electricity and energy carriers. These are extremely disturbing data. What do entrepreneurs point out about the causes of this decrease in investment? First of all, they are talking about an unstable regulatory environment, and they are talking about constantly new ideas of law and justice regarding regulation in this area. I would like to remind you of the concept of a single tax, from which the government withdrew, as well as the concept of a commercial tax. Such announcements before detailed analyses always lead to turbulence in the economy. My question is this: What measures does the government intend to take to create the conditions for stable economic growth to be ensured in the coming years? We know that investment is such a sustainable basis for economic growth. I see I have unlimited time, so I can talk for a very long time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u147	No, sir, 45 seconds. Don't be so pushy.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u148	Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u149	And you can fit in, sir? Yes, you can. Mr Łukasz Schreiber, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u150	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say in this discussion about the budget deficit, something that Talleyrand classified well as something that he had less than if he had nothing. And I would like to quote to you the words of the Polish Prime Minister, which fell from this speaker during the exposé: The deficit of the budget means a constant increase in public debt and a high cost of paying interest on this debt. In the draft budget for next year, the previous government predicted that these costs would exceed 27 billion. This money could be used to build new roads, education or security. Unfortunately, that is not going to happen, because the state seemed, not only in the last two years, more than it was earning. Public debt cannot grow at the rate it has so far. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Now even faster.]] Over the course of a few years, the budget must be brought to a close balance. And these are not the words of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, but Donald Tusk, who, in the first year of his office, had a budget deficit of 3.7%. I'm not talking about what happened later in 2010. He said to be happy that the deficit did not exceed 8% And he just went over 110 billion. [[And you understand the economy a little bit?]] In the last year, 2016, in which you threatened Poland with second Greece... [[And Europe?]] ...the budget deficit was 2.4%. Mr President, you are talking about not praising the day before sunset, but at other times the sun rises in summer and winter. [[Compare apples with apples.]] And you could say yes. After these four months, we have just 900 million deficits. In the same period, in the best year for you - in 2015, [[♪ The bell ♪]] it was, ladies and gentlemen, over PLN 15 billion. Finally, I would like to ask whether the sealing of the tax system does not affect the lower budget deficit either. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The debt beats the record.]] [[The debt beats the record.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u151	Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u152	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 11 May 2016, in plenary, Minister Zbigniew Ziobro of this speaker was roaring about the lack of coordination in the fight against economic crime, and especially VAT-related crime, by the previous government of PO-PSL. Then there was also a declaration that a special team would be set up to coordinate and prepare a common methodology in the fight against economic crime, especially with this organised VAT crime. We have today, ladies and gentlemen, and there is an idea for a team to develop this formula. In this way, it is an informal prohibition to initiate proceedings against entities likely to issue fictitious invoices. Another idea may be to assume that the entity is not doing business, and in such situations these companies should be deleted from the register from behind the desk, i.e. without carrying out appropriate proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen! And as a curiosity, I will tell you what to do in cases where proceedings have already been initiated. What should we do then? These procedures must, of course, be remitted, and the basis for this is magical subjectivity. Ladies and gentlemen, we will, of course, be hearing about a decrease in the number of fictitious invoices in the media, because, as we know, there will be no control on the exhibitors of invoices, so they will also not be in the reports. We will also be hearing about an increase in the collection rate of invoices, because, of course, decisions will only be made for those who will be able to secure the corresponding amount without problems. And my question is, is this the only way to fight Minister Zbigniew Ziobra, the Ministry of Finance [[♪ The bell ♪]] from the so-called: Organized VAT crime? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u153	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u154	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The government boasts of high economic growth, but forgets to add that investment expenditure is still falling and that in the first quarter of this year. They dropped by 0.4%. And this is a further decline in the deepening declines of last year. The government boasts of high growth, but forgets to add that industrial production in April was very disappointed and dropped by 0.6% compared to one year. It is irresponsible to base economic growth solely on consumption. I will remind you that Greece had very high GDP growth before its biggest financial crisis, but based on consumption. It is also irresponsible to glorify only partial data, as he did just a moment ago with Mr Schreiber, speaking of the fact that the debt was very low last year, and he forgot to add that... I mean, the deficit was very low. He forgot to add that the public debt grew the fastest in our country's history and amounted to nearly PLN 100 billion, it did not reach 100 billion only because the local governments recorded a surplus. And he also forgot to say that this very good result, in terms of VAT, during the first months of this year comes primarily from the accounting transfers that you recorded in January. I would like the Law and Justice to finally explain to all Poles what results from so high revenues in terms of VAT, in January this year, which really influence the first four months of this year. You are boasting that higher VAT revenues are nearly PLN 14.5 billion this year, but you forget to add that this surplus is mainly due to January and accounting transfers, Minister, which you have made, [[♪ The bell ♪]] from December to January this year, with manipulation on VAT payments to entrepreneurs. Accept our VAT amendment, in which we assume that entrepreneurs will always receive VAT after 25 days. You won't be able to do your shit and move it around with VAT returns from month to month. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u155	Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Club of Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u156	What we're hearing here today is like in the lens a visible opposition approach to the positive actions of this government. If there's savings, it's bad too, because they're too small or they're manipulated. [[It's true they're manipulated.]] That's not true. It's time for reconnaissance. [[Mr Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Mrs...]] Minister! Today, it is extremely worrying that international holding companies should avoid taxing, using capital links and that they are based in different countries with differences in the tax system and using the Double Taxation Act... [[Are you talking about skoks?]] ...they optimize their behaviour on the issue of taxes, that often transfers of funds are carried out without taxation at all, which exposes huge losses to the budgets of the states, and also destroys this fair competition. So I wanted to ask: Does the Ministry of Finance have a strategy against tax avoidance by international corporations? Are you thinking of setting up a special, specialized structure to monitor these issues, or are the human resources and knowledge you have sufficient at this point? Do you, e.g. are familiar with the American experience in this area, which are very effective, with positive results? And can the Minister also confirm that this concept, which the European Union has proposed in the form of a directive, to master international holdings, to end their tax avoidance practices, the concept of a common consolidated corporate tax base has flaws and is so large that it is simply ineffective? The holding companies are still avoiding this tax. The Lord mentioned in his statement that in this regard you already have some ideas, experiences, which I personally am very pleased with. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wish you good luck in this direction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u157	Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u158	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In a wise country, a wise government has enjoyed the good work of its predecessors, appreciates them, reaps their fruitage and offers further wise ideas. What you are enjoying today, what you are proud of, is primarily due to the introduction by the previous government of a single control file. And that was a wise action, which today the state as Poland is, and we are the beneficiaries. The problem is that when you listen to what you have to propose, among others. e.g. Mr Schreiber, you are really proposing nothing but a VAT fraud mentality that is happy that he has succeeded, because the predecessors have worked hard, he is giving away this money to the right and left, but he is not offering anything forward. And that is a problem, because of course you can brag about the acquis, because it is not the achievements of the Platform, it is the achievements of Poland, but you have to offer something forward. I'm glad you're laughing, but I don't know if you're laughing at what it says: Poland's public debt exceeded PLN 1 trillion. Which government led in economic times to the fact that public debt in Poland exceeded 1 trillion PLN? [[Platform government.]] [[Platform government.]] [[Record.]] I have two questions. Two questions. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] We absolutely have two things. We have an unprecedented economic prosperity and we have a tax seal. What will you do in two areas? What have you proposed in two areas? The Minister's smile is inappropriate. He speaks to the Member. I would ask you to listen to what the Member is saying and answer the question. [[Applause]] What are you gonna do to relieve taxpayers of taxes if you have such good income to repair public finances to relieve, [[♪ The bell ♪]] e.g. Especially at PIT, those who make 2,000. Evil? And my second question is, what are you gonna do, like, Czechs, to bring about a year like this for the first time, in such a good situation where there will be no budget deficit? Can you afford to face such challenges? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[A trillion zlotys!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u159	Thank you. Mr Marek Owa. You're welcome. There's no envoy. Please, Mr Andrzej Noblet, Club Law and Justice. [[Your Marshal...]] [[There is no mode, Mr Schreiber...]] No, in this way, Mr President, every Member would like to perform in addition. It's not... These are statements, speeches during this point. [[Tonight, after 10:00 p.m., during the statements.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u160	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! From 1 March this year. a new law on National Tax Administration is in force. The purpose of this... [[And people don't have deals. And people don't have deals.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u161	Member, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u162	Mrs. Krystyna, please don't disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u163	Nor did she want her to be disturbed in the course of her speech. [[But they don't.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u164	The purpose of this important law was, among others, to implement it. increase the sealing of the tax system and tax revenue to the state budget. Hence, Minister, my question: How can we assess on the basis of these 3 months of operation of this important law the effectiveness of the changes in tax revenue in individual tax groups? Minister! At the end of April this year, the Council of Ministers adopted a resolution on the State's Multiannual Financial Plan for the years 2017 How can the provisions contained in these documents and their implementation affect the dynamics of tax revenue growth? How much is the financial impact estimated in cumulative terms of sealing activities between 2017 and 2018 and in subsequent years? Finally, I share this reflection after Mr Nitras's speech: I would suggest that we enjoy together what was previously positive... [[Then tell me the truth too.]] ...and if there is good aggregate data now, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, then this is good. [[♪ The bell ♪]] not only for the rulers, but also for all Poles. Thank you. [[That's it. That's it. That's it. The question is, what are you gonna do about it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u165	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Club Civic Platform. [[Something needs to be given to entrepreneurs.]] [[The problem is, there aren't any good aggregates yet. When they do, we'll be happy.]] I'm glad. Therefore, I am now asking that the next Member be given the opportunity to...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u166	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Applicable from 1 January so-called. a major amendment of the VAT Act was intended to reduce fraud and seal its collection in terms of building materials and services. According to its assumptions, subcontractors issue to customers who are VAT taxable persons an invoice without tax, which is only cleared by buyers of goods. Subcontractors therefore do not pay VAT, while they buy goods in which the price is included. Since they do not have the tax due, they cannot deduct it. Companies wishing to recover VAT must show an excess payment and report to the tax office for reimbursement, and this process takes up to 3 months, about 3 months. [[It was the same thing in your reign.]] It has led to a crisis, where for a Polish entrepreneur a much simpler and more cost-effective solution is to make purchases abroad and download them into our country than to buy them from a domestic producer. It is nagminne, I observe it personally in the south of Poland. It is already known that the State Treasury blocks construction companies as much as PLN 8.5 billion per year. Minister, how will the government address the problem and when will it take action to meet the business community? When are you finally going to lower the VAT rate? You assured me... [[You guys, you guys.]] [[You shouldn't have raised it.]] You assured me during the election campaign that you would support entrepreneurs, and now it's the other way around. You're the ones who raised the VAT. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u167	Mr Jerzy Paul, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u168	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Since the beginning of his term of office, the opposition has been screaming that the government is ruining the state's finances, that it will lead to disaster... [[Right!]] That is not true, Mrs... [[Right!]] [[That's not true!]] ...and for many years it will plunge Poles into poverty and poverty. Meanwhile, all the financial indicators in our country show that in terms of income we are one of the leaders of Europe. The introduction of the 500+ programme has not affected you, it does not interfere with the reduction of retirement age or free medicines for seniors... [[What's free? Where's the free stuff?]] ...and that kind of support from citizens directly from the government, I could count for a long time. Despite expenditure directly directed to Poles' pockets, the government strongly supports the development of infrastructure throughout Poland, therefore I have a question: Is it true that the state budget, year by year, will only be increased to national roads by 25% in 2017? Thank you very much. [[Because last time there was a collapse, the lowest expenditure on roads.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u169	Mr Rafał Weber, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u170	The government's spending was the lowest. [[Lowest expenditure on roads.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u171	Madam, this is the second time I have to draw your attention. [[I'll be right out.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u172	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am not surprised by the nervous words spoken here by opposition politicians, these empty tirades, because you know nothing, and if you know something, you know very well that the better for Poland, the better for public finances, the better for the country's budget, for the Polish economy, for society, the worse for you, and you are trying to lie, manipulate, scare Poles to save your political situation. [[How can you say such things? You'd be ashamed.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the figures speak for themselves. The first 4 months of 2017 are budget revenues of nearly PLN 12 billion. That's a fact, you can't deny it. If you want to talk about Poland's debt, I have a question for the Minister: Is it true that during the years 2007 to 2015, during the times of the Civic Platform's rule, our country's debt increased by nearly PLN 450 billion? Right? Right. [[8 years.]] Eight years, that's right, the bad eight years. [[100 billion PLN for a year.]] [[100 billion PLN last year.]] And one more question, Minister: When it comes to Polish fuel companies, because last year we introduced a fuel package, did these laws help? Whether the revenues of state-owned companies such as Orlen, Lotos are higher than in 2015... [[You're so manipulative.]] ...and if so, how much? And is the Polish tax policy generally effective, which is proposed by the Government of Law and Justice? Thank you very much. [[Was there 100 billion PLN in the last year? Mr President, you forgot to finish the question. It was manipulation.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u173	Thank you. Mr Jan Szewczak, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u174	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Minister! As in the tax debate, the representative of the total opposition says that we first kill someone and then take off our pants, I would like to say that God's providence can restore common sense and some culture, a class in this discussion, because that's not what we want to be offended here. Speaking of the work that Mr Nitras was talking about, I would like to say that you have done so much work on this sealing. I would like to ask the Minister: Minister, do you not think that the previous management of the Ministry of Finance in 2008 and 2015 with the Minister of Finance, Mr Jan Vincent-Rostowski, Minister Szczurki, was not aware that there was such a scale of losses of the state budget due to fictitious fraud of invoices, thinnings, VAT carousels, which were estimated here annually at PLN 30 billion, PLN 40 billion and even PLN 80 billion? Or was it another matter? Was it a form of some sort of consent to this type of action or at least accepting this highly pathological situation? In view of the fact that, undoubtedly, an outstanding tax specialist, Prof. Witold Modzelewski, the total loss for fraud, VAT fraud in 2008 and 2015 estimates the total amount of PLN 140 billion, whether in this context and in the current situation, when we see that these tax revenues are increasing, it would not be appropriate to consider the establishment of a committee of inquiry... [[I am proposing a committee on the SKOKs, sir.]] ...and if not the committee of inquiry, at least present some in-depth report from the Ministry of Finance? How was it possible that such an obvious robbery of public finances took place? We'd really like to know as [[♪ The bell ♪]] representatives of the Committee on Public Finance, whether it was more than just an omission. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u175	Thank you very much. Katarzyna Czochara, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u176	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Among the decisions of our government, which contributed to the sealing of the tax system, was the entry into force, among others. strengthening the analytical vertical in the IRS or introducing the so-called: the fuel and energy package. The second largest fuel producer in Poland Lotos Group - 2016 ended with more than PLN 1 billion on the plus. It is worth noting that in 2015 it is worth noting that: Lotus was on the downside - PLN 263 million. Minister! My question is: Is it true that it is the introduction by the government of the so-called. the first fuel package, which effectively impedes the criminal activities of companies bringing fuel to the Polish market without, among others, fulfilling themselves. with the regulatory tax obligations, had a huge impact on the record profits of this company? Does the Ministry have any calculations of the level of profits we can count on in the following months and years? There are now amendments to the VAT Act, which include changes to the VAT Act. are to give the fiscus faster access to documents enabling analysis of financial flows between companies. Does the Ministry intend to introduce further arrangements to seal the tax system in the near future? And these will, you know, bring extra revenue to the state budget. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u177	Thank you very much. The last one on the list is Mirosława Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u178	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the proposed amendment of the Tax Order, you already impose another obligation on 80,000. entrepreneurs, the obligation to submit daily reports to the National Tax Administration. According to business organisations - many of these organisations, I will quote Leviathan here - you are already crossing the safe border for collecting information about taxpayers. This will take place on an unprecedented scale. The State will have detailed knowledge of its activities, turnover, prices and counterparties. So I have a question: What about business secrets? The value of the collected data is millions of zlotys. Here's the question of how to secure this data, Minister. It can't be like you told me at the Committee on Economics and Development that you don't know if you can secure it or whether we're computer-secure at all. First, we need to respond to how we secure these sensitive business data. Third case. You will have access to information about individuals, contractors, the other side, employees. Question: "Haven't you already crossed the borders that Orwell wrote about because it seems to me that the Orwells are bowing down here?" Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u179	Thank you very much. As I said earlier, she was the last one on the list. Jerzy Gosievski, the Law and Justice Club, came forward to correct this. I'll give you the floor, although I decided earlier that I didn't, but you waited eagerly. So that's one minute. Please don't exceed that time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u180	Dear Marshal! Thank you very much for giving me the floor, because it has happened many times here, also earlier, that there have been a quarter of truths, half-truths that mislead citizens. [[It's a fact.]] [[From the PiS side.]] Among other things, the professor, recalling my statement, spoke of a uniform control file, for which are the ambivalent statements of politicians of this total opposition, which either praises this single file or slanders it. [[We praise him because he's ours.]] I would like to clarify that a single control file was adopted in September 2015, but was introduced on 1 July 2016. [[Vacatio legis, sir.]] He has a very small impact, a small share in terms of effectiveness, as it was the Government of Law and Justice that adopted laws on sealing the VAT system and gave this in 2017. [[♪ The bell ♪]] At least 4 billion for introductions...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u181	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u182	...the clause against avoidance...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u183	The time for correction was 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u184	... Three billion and another billion...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u185	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u186	...for sealing just as a result of laws adopted by the Government of Law and Justice. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u187	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Maria Zuba. May I remind you that the speaking time is 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u188	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I would like to dedicate to Members of the Civic Platform the thought of our philosopher Leszek Kołakowski, who said that it is good to know that lying often harms others, but even more often harms liars, because it will destroy them internally. [[But you're lying.]] To prove that you're lying, I'd like to quote a few facts here. On 26 November 2010, i.e. under the rule of the Civic Platform and the PSL, at the 68th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, the votes of the Civic Platform and the PSL were adopted by the Act amending certain laws related to the implementation of the budget. Under this law, the VAT Act has been amended. In this very change, in the article. 19 you have increased VAT from 22% to 23%. I suggest you remember. The second issue is the sealing of the VAT system by the Civic Platform and PSL. What did it look like? During the meeting of the Sejm on 10 September as Members of the Law and Justice in the context of the current questions, we asked about the implementation of the tax revenue of the state budget. At that time, the Minister of Finance of the Civic Platform Jarosław Neneman admitted that the revenue to the budget in 2015 would be 9 billion less compared to the plan and will therefore be less than in the previous year. He assured us that sealing the tax system was very difficult and impossible. The Minister has put forward this answer, and I quote: it is really going to have to be more comprehensive, and it does not just depend on our internal regulations or on the effectiveness of law enforcement services, to look for solutions at a European level, because this is a pan-European problem. However, 68 months later, Prime Minister Beata Szydło in her exposé, without seeking support, without seeking consultation, guidance and European directives, made it clear that the Ministry of Finance would start working on systemic changes, that the reform of the tax administration and its provision with modern IT tools to reduce the scope of VAT fraud, more effective excise collection and CIT income tax on large corporations would seal this system. [[We do, we do. Our bill.]] If we look, today, after 18 months, we have results. These declarations made in the election campaign by Prime Minister Beata Szydło have already been partially implemented. [[40 billion.]] I know you're hurting that the extra income that the Civic Platform and the PSL would be willing to share among their guys... [[How can you lie like that?]] ...as has been done for eight years by their governments, the government of Law and Justice divides into most Poles, carries out programs that allow them to come out of poverty and poverty. After eight years of society being put into poverty by the Civic Platform and PSL... [[But you're lying, my fellow Member.]] ...tonight we can make it clear... [[It's gonna be miserable.]] ...that 98% of poverty has been brought out of poverty Polish families. The misery we have received from you has now been eliminated from our society. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u189	Thank you, Member. It's been five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u190	In addition, we must note that the investments you are talking about are now at an increasing stage, because not anyone else, but it is the investors who see our country as this foresight country that last year by 21%. the number of investments in our country has increased. These additional jobs, which are currently in our country, are the result of these investments that have been realised.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u191	Member, do you hear me?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u192	Moreover - and here good news for you, I think you will be pleased - additional investors are interested in investment plans in our country.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u193	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u194	This is gonna be another good job. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo, Mary.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u195	Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr. Paweł Gruza. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u196	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for asking. At the outset, I wanted to comment on some of the issues raised, and then I will go to those questions that I think the answer to is possible from this speaker. We will, of course, answer some questions in writing. The first thing is to comment on the charge of manipulation of VAT results at the turn of the year, manipulation of returns in December and higher income in January. I would like to make it clear from this point of view that the results of the VAT-based state budget drawn over the last 12 months are as good or even better than what we show in the first quarter. [[Applause]] What does that mean? This means that any shift at the turn of the artificial date, which is the end of the year - because this is just an artificial date for the economy - any revenue cleared of this effect at the turn of the year also indicates sealing going faster than so-called. macro base on, I don't know, growth in consumption, investment, etc. Therefore, any such rhetorical treatment of moving and manipulating accounting is false if we take the results back 12 months from now, a rolling VAT-based result. That's the first thing. I did not want to talk about VAT rates in my speech, but since questions concerning VAT rates have been raised here, I would like to make it clear that, in my view, the increase in VAT rates during previous governments, the previous term of office in some sense masked the problem of VAT fraud, i.e. the disappearing VAT revenues were a statistical and objective problem, the increase in VAT rates allowed the budget to breathe and, so to speak, to hide the problem under the rug. [[Amazing.]] I would also like to point out that an increase in the standard VAT rate increases the profitability of VAT fraud and this is already a very sad effect. [[Then why don't you lower it?]] So VAT fraud is as profitable as it is if the VAT rate is higher. On the one hand, this movement masked the subject and on the other hand increased the profitability of fraud, all the more driving this phenomenon. It is an introduction to manipulation of the result and imputation of the Law and Justice to increase the tax. Now, as far as the specific questions on the technical aspects of some of the things we are proposing are concerned, firstly, we have agreed with the European Commission that the voluntary split payment mechanism does not require any agreement from the European Commission and the European Union bodies. What does that mean? This means that only Polish legislation and Polish technology are needed in the banking system, because without it the mechanism will not work. We are, in turn, on the eve of the application for a derogation concerning the mandatory part where we see the biggest problems. You can imagine those areas of the economy that require such a particular focus, these areas will be reported in a derogation mode. We are also following the initial word both with the representatives of the Commission and with our partners in Europe, and here we have, in principle, the green light - an example of Italian, recently in express mode obtained a derogation, one, gives a ton, two, I think we will also be judged in this spirit. This will also answer one of the questions about reversed VAT in the construction site. The reverse VAT, as I have said many times, is an anomaly in the VAT system, is an undesirable temporary sealing tool, and the European Commission is generally unfavorably looking at this tool, often preventing different countries from using this instrument. [[You put it in construction.]] The split payment is the answer to this, it is a standard sealing mechanism, a technical mechanism that will ultimately replace the reversed VAT. There was also a question about what sealing elements we have. I don't want to go into details because there are a lot of these elements, but one fundamental change will be to separate the capital account in income taxes. We hope that this will result in some limitations or ease in the use of aggressive optimization. There was a question about taxing donations. Here I must answer in writing, I am unable to answer at this moment. As far as bureaucratic responsibilities are concerned, of course our system is highly bureaucratic, there are many overregulations that do not carry functionality, I do not know, nor social, nor for the security of public finances. We are organising a conference on a new way of writing laws, including tax. It's so-called. the principle or the writing of rules with the emphasis on the principles, on certain principles, which causes us to move away from the technical legislative language that always brings gaps. And we will purify, purify the laws of overregulation. With regard to economic growth and the relationship between economic growth and tax sealing, we can see that tax sealing does not exclude and does not interfere with economic growth, of which we are very happy. If we are talking about continuing the sealing activities of the Civic Platform and the PSL, I will say that the measure of these actions is simply the efficiency of the tax system, and this was fatal, so it is not about the new regulations, it is not about the new constructions, it is about the effectiveness of the new regulations and new constructions, and this, unfortunately, did not exist. There is some language awkwardness when we are talking about JPK files, because with JPK we call both the file on demand, prepared by the taxpayer, and the file that we collect in an automated way online. The original proposals of the Platform and PSL concerned this on demand, so to speak, were a few steps behind the standards adopted even in our southern neighbours, where this type of information was submitted online in real time and have a real sealing function for the whole system. Therefore, the fact that we use the same term, JPK, is a little confusing. I understand I explained that. As regards Mrs Lubnauer's question, I replied. VAT drawn over the last 12 months also shows a significant increase, even greater than what is happening in these months, now. Therefore, any thesis on accounting manipulation is not allowed. With regard to the amounts recovered and the effectiveness of the recovery of the money, the problem is that the money extorted from VAT disappears from Poland and the likelihood of their recovery is practically zero. Therefore, I would not suggest in assessing the effectiveness of the tax system the criterion of recovered money from extortion, because they are far from here. Effectiveness should be measured by current VAT revenues. The idea that the KAS doesn't work. Empirical evidence is that it's more likely to work. If we say that entrepreneurs are lending a budget, I also think it is too far-reaching a simplification. Entrepreneurs' money is from consumers, and as I understand it, [[♪ The bell ♪]] consumers do not want VAT fraud. Unfortunately, I have to answer the rest of the questions in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u197	I can extend your speech for two minutes. Is that enough? Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Paweł Gruza: Yes. Thank you very much. You're welcome. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Paweł Gruza: As far as quarterly accounts are concerned, this is where I won't agree. The results for the last month of the quarter indicated that even taking into account the effect of pre-payment of advances this quarter, for the month in which we should theoretically have reduced VAT revenues, these revenues were higher than a year ago for a month which should have been cleared of advances. Therefore, the whole narrative about the liquidation of quarterly accounts and the fact that these are all the proceeds of sealing on paper is definitely not true. As regards the indication of the share of taxes in GDP, I would like to point out that we have reversed the trend in the share of taxes in GDP and that the share of taxes in GDP is clearly increasing. So to say that we're losing... We're getting the lost ground back. As regards the set of questions concerning the JPK_WB, because of my focus on the projects I have been talking about, I will allow Minister Banasi to answer these questions in writing, including these detailed questions concerning the operational activities of the KAS, because many of these questions have emerged here. There was a question for Minister Ziobra. I don't think I'm the right person for this question, either. I also referred to the chart for January. Strategies for international holding companies. Yes, we have a coherent concept on many dimensions for international holding companies. The only way I can tell you is that we are going to proceed with the Commission's action against Ireland, which concerns Apple, which did some of the operations not necessarily in our favor. What are we reducing, what taxes? For example, we increase the free amount, which means an effective reduction in the PIT tax. [[Who?]] As far as the fuel package is concerned, we are clearly monitoring this industry and clearly seeing a huge increase in legal turnover, as we are pleased to see. We're working with the industry, trying to coordinate some controls, so we can hit where the fuel mob is the strongest. As for Mr Szewczak's question of consciousness, I think that this is a good question more for my fellow Members than for me. As far as the Commission is concerned, it is also a decision Parliament in this area. As far as the report is concerned, I think that at this point we are so committed to sealing that I do not know if we have the means to prepare this type of document. Nevertheless, I think that in some perspective this possibility will open up. Question about privacy and security for JPK_WB. I'd like to deny that it wasn't my theory that the system wouldn't be safe. I said it would be the safest system that is currently available technologically. That, I think, should close those topics. The rest of the questions, as I said, will be answered by Minister Banas in writing, and so will I personally... Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: First reading of the Government draft Water Law Act (print No. 1529). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment of Mr Mariusz Gajda to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u198	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I have the honour to present a draft Water Law Act, which is a government project with among others. for the implementation of European Union law. As we read in the introduction to the Sejm's website, the project concerns, among others. the establishment of a new legal entity of the State legal entity of the Polish Waters, whose task will be to finance investments in water management, as well as the efficient acquisition of funds for these investments, including non-budget funds, as well as the regulation of water management issues, including the power over assigned water management units, carried out on behalf of the State Treasury. Briefly about the story. I have here a water law from 1922, the first law in the independent Republic of Poland, which, you can say, was very modern for those times and many of these provisions are in the present draft law. This law was in force until 1962, the next new Water Law in the Polish People's Republic was in 1974 and only in 2001 was the first Water Law in the Third Republic. However, it did not cover all the issues related to the state's systemic reform, so there was a lack of funding system, transparent financial instruments, and there was no integration of water management competences. In 2007, we tried to prepare a new Water Law. Unfortunately, because of earlier elections, it was not possible to do so. Between 2008 and 2015, the PO-PSL coalition attempted to proceed with the Water Law Act, but in 2015, before the elections, it was interrupted for fear of causing social unrest. At the same time, there have been repeated amendments related to EU law. The Community water policy, as provided for in the Water Framework Directive, requires a transparent, efficient and coherent legislative framework, including in the national legal order. The new Water Law therefore aims to introduce instruments to ensure that the Water Framework Directive, such as the Water Framework Directive, is achieved. the full implementation of a water-based water management policy that meets the sustainability criteria. The concept of water catchment should be understood to mean that this implementation takes place not within the administrative limits, but within the natural, hydrographic limits, i.e. in areas from which water flows into a single river. What is meant by sustainable development? It is a rapid economic growth, increasing the wealth of Poles and Poles while respecting the principles governing nature, for present and future generations. Water is one of the most important factors in the success of sustainable development. The fact that water is life is a certain truism, but it is a truism as real as possible. Ensuring good water for residents, providing water for various economic purposes, agriculture, energy, inland waterway transport, industry, finally ensuring the availability of water for rest and recreation, as well as for biodiversity, for all aquatic and terrestrial organisms - all this is a challenge for the state. At the same time, it is necessary to ensure the safety of Poles and Poles, protection against extreme phenomena such as flooding, drought or other extraordinary environmental threats. All these tasks must be the responsibility of the state. Water resources shall not be subject to any privatisation process. That's what I wanted to emphasize very strongly. Water management is not an area in itself, but it must play a service role for all users, very often reconcile different, conflicting interests. In order to achieve all this, it is necessary to organise it in such a way as to ensure its efficient, long-term and systematic management. Of course, adequate funding is needed for this, not on the basis of action following floods and droughts, but on the basis of anticipation and countermeasures. The lack or excess of water leads to conflicts at local, national and international level, which is an example, among others. The war in Syria. Water is expected to be either a growth barrier or a rapid growth. Poland is a very poor country in water. The water resources in Poland amount to around 1500 to 1600 m3 per capita and are comparable to Egypt's water resources. We are practically the last place in continental Europe in this area. The new Water Law also means ensuring real and effective water power understood in accordance with Article. 3 the Water Framework Directive and its adequate impact on water management issues, with particular emphasis on strategic planning and the conservation of water resources. The water authority shall determine the directions of investment in the waters, ensure the maintenance of water equipment and ensure that good water status is achieved. Finally, water management manages the flood risk and ensures that it is minimised at all levels of water management. One of the most important issues that are very urgent is the fulfilment of ex ante conditionality, i.e. the preconditions for the use of European funds. Poland was obliged to comply with these ex ante conditions by the end of 2016. This includes: Water laws and water management plans. As far as water law is concerned, this is a full implementation of the Water Framework Directive, and in particular Article. 9 on the reimbursement of the costs of water services, in other words, towards self-financing of water management, as is already the case for water and sewage undertakings. The reimbursement of water services costs is simply a balancing of revenue and expenditure. To this end, a new water financing system is introduced based on flexible financial instruments which should ensure efficient and efficient management of water resources and the allocation of resources to actions to ensure the availability of water with adequate quality and quantity parameters, protection against flooding and drought and all other objectives to be pursued by water management. What does Water Law include? Water law covers the implementation of as many as eight EU directives, including, of course, the Water Framework Directive, the Flood Directive, the Urban Waste Water Treatment Directive, the Bathing Directive, the Groundwater Quality Directive, and changes nearly 50 laws in its scope. The project contains 570 articles and has 401 pages. And now, briefly - in a telegraph context - I will discuss the contents of this law. The following chapters and provisions are included. The general provisions contain definitions of water and water bodies, in other words, they regulate the division into hydrographic boundaries, the use of water and water services. I would like to say that these regulations, which were contained in the Water Law, are maintained, divided into three basic types of water use: ordinary - water collection for the farm's own needs of 5 m3 per day; universal - the right to general access to water flowing, i.e. to bathing, to sailing by tourist boats, as was the case in Prewar Law, even slipping in the winter, if there is ice, in other words, to rest, which is extremely important for our countrymen who use water in the summer, in this case the principle is maintained, we cannot restrict access to water; special - the use of water on the basis of water law permits, i.e. if someone wants to take water for industrial, agricultural purposes, to undertake various kinds of water-related activities, then he must obtain water law. So the use of water is divided into ordinary, common and special. The next chapter includes the implementation of the European Union Water Baths Directive. I am aware that there will be some comments here, because indeed the creation of a bathing area by the municipality is extremely complicated and difficult, but these are the regulations of the EU directive that we need to take into account. The Water Law then provides for the protection of waters taking into account environmental objectives, lays down rules for the protection of waters against pollution, concerning the treatment of municipal waste water. In other words, the national urban waste water treatment programme is also the result of the implementation of the EU directive with regard to the so-called. agglomerations of more than 2 000. residents. Here we have introduced some new rules for the approval of the agglomeration. No longer will the marshals approve, but they will approve the commune and the Polish Water farm, because our experience shows that the marshals were delayed with the approval of the agglomeration, and consequently the consequences were that the municipality which was not included in the National Urban Waste Water Treatment Program could not obtain funds for its activities. That's why we simplified it. Another extremely important issue is the protection of water against pollution of nitrates from agricultural sources. Poland had an infringement in 2012, and a judgment was taken in 2014. Here we change the entire water protection system against nitrate pollution from agricultural sources. Namely, so far, the so-called ones have been designated. OSN, i.e. areas particularly vulnerable to pollution with these nitrates. There were often large farms in these areas, large farms that actually contributed to nitrate pollution, but at the same time small farms that did not cause pollution, and farmers had to bear the consequences of having to carry out certain equipment and spend quite large amounts on it. In the project presented, we propose to introduce a single action programme for the whole country, but taking into account the size of agricultural holdings, so farms with an area of up to 10 hectares and up to 10 large conversion units will not have to carry out special equipment, however in good agricultural practices this will be recommended. I'd like to say that we already have a conviction for violation. June 23rd will be the so-called. package meeting and unfortunately threaten us with penalties, very high penalties - either a one-off penalty of a dozen or tens of millions of euros, or daily penalties of several thousand euros per day. So that this is an extremely important issue, the implementation of this directive. The next chapter includes pollutants, i.e. mainly so-called. Priority. Thanks to the parliamentary initiative, this matter has already been taken into account. I wanted to thank you for that. The next chapter includes the protection of water shots and inland water reservoirs, which is an extremely important thing, about water intended for human consumption. This is more restrictive than until now, namely the obligation to protect the direct zone and to carry out a risk analysis for the intermediate zone. This means that whoever takes water for supply will have to do this risk analysis with regard to impurities. If he doesn't, they'll do it to Polish Waters and then charge the cost. We must take great care of the quality of water. We have more and more cases related to poor water quality. However, in many cities, especially in large cities, this quality is improving, there are increasingly different types of water pollution, due to, for example, drought and reduction of water resources, and hence, concentration of pollutants. The next chapter concerns the protection of the environment of marine waters, i.e. marine waters, and this draft law deals with the environment of marine waters. The next chapter concerns flood risk management. Here we have proposed new regulations. This is what happened before the 2015 novel. The municipalities had no right to build, no development of areas in areas covered by flood risk maps, which caused, often with wrong maps, that simply could not follow the development of cities. We are now introducing a different mechanism, namely to agree on a spatial planning plan by the Polish Waters, that is, on the basis of maps we will determine whether it is really possible to build in this area, whether it is not possible to build or whether it is possible to build with certain limitations. The next very important chapter includes combating the effects of drought. Recent years have shown that this is a growing problem. The next chapters concern water construction and water melioration. As far as water meliorations are concerned, we're changing the definition. There is no longer any division into water meliorations basic and detailed, simply water meliorations are detailed meliorations, i.e., in other words, ditches, mainly ditches and other small devices, while all other, flood shafts, which were previously primary water melioration devices, are water devices. Polish waters will keep records of detailed meliorations in the IT system. The next important department includes the management of the State Treasury property, water ownership and the duties of its owners. Ownership rights of the Treasury in relation to flowing waters owned by the State Treasury will be exercised by the Polish Waters - in relation to inland flowing waters and groundwater. Underground waters are associated with flowing waters, mostly quaternary pieces, and I wanted to say as a curiosity that powering Polish rivers, rivers in Poland, that is about equally, half of groundwater comes from underground waters, and half directly from precipitation. However, at the request of the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Water Management, inland waterways of particular transport importance shall be excluded from this management by the Polish Waters. The next body to exercise ownership rights is the Minister responsible for maritime affairs - in relation to waters of the territorial sea and marine internal waters. The solutions that have been adopted so far, i.e. water management by the national park manager, have been removed from the general system. On the other hand, it is possible to make agreements with the State Forests and with local government units, in other words, if there are any leaks in the park, the park will be able to carry out its tasks as it has so far. The same is true when it comes to State Forests, as it is now, also on the basis of agreements, but there is also a novelty that with local government units. If cities want to manage smaller courses - and there are such cities, among others. Gdansk, Warsaw - they will simply be able to do so on the basis of agreements. It will also be possible to conclude agreements at each level of local government, i.e. municipal and voivodship. And here the most important change: the establishment of the National Water Farm of Poland - this is a state legal person - as an entity responsible for water management throughout the country. The National Water Farm of Poland, contrary to what is often said, will not be one large centralized unit, but will be a hierarchical unit. From the bottom it will be water surveillance, then water catchment management - these water catchment management boards will be about 50 - regional water management management boards and the National Water Management Board. Most of the competences are so distributed in the Water Law Act that they really are as decentralised as possible. We were wondering if we could set up separate boards, as it was in the draft PO-PSL Act, that the former Vistula River Management Board and the Oder River Management Board, but due to uneven revenues from individual areas, all needs will have to be evened out. It could be like that. in Silesia, where there are very high income, there would be an excess of money, for example. in areas of Eastern Poland, where there are small revenues and large needs, there would be a shortage of these resources. This is a mechanism that will regulate spending. This describes the financial economy of Polish Waters. The revenue will be the fees that I will continue to talk about, and will include other rental income, as well as national budgetary resources and EU funds. As regards the management of the State Treasury's property, we have here a division, i.e. the Polish Waters and the Minister responsible for inland waterway transport, with regard to inland waterways of particular transport importance. We're still gonna keep talking. Mostly it's about Oder and the shipping facilities in Oder. We're introducing economic instruments. This is of course the most controversial, but this is what the Water Framework Directive requires - the reimbursement of the costs of water services. So far these fees, this toll system has been in the Environmental Law. I would like to remind you that in the current law, the maximum rate for the collection of water in this almost amounts to 4 PLN. We call this under the Water Framework Directive water service charges. These are charges such as the collection of groundwater or surface water, the introduction of sewage into water or to land, the discharge of waste water from sewage systems, the drainage of land within the administrative limits of cities, the collection of groundwater and surface water for fish farming and farming, and the introduction into water or land of waste water from such fish farming or farming. We are introducing new mechanisms to ensure that we do not deprive ourselves of natural terrain retention. Therefore, in the case of built-up properties with an area of more than 3,5 thousand. m2 built in 70% permanent, sealed surface property owners will bear charges which will decrease if compensatory measures are carried out, such as for example. water tanks or other water retention systems. The next fee is related to the extraction of stone, gravel, sand and other materials from surface waters. It is also a question of equalizing, however, side-activity, mainly for regulation, the cost of fees from geological concessions with those from Water Law. As for who will determine these fees, they will determine them by decision of the Polish Waters. Any water intake and waste water discharge will be measured by the Polish Waters. So far, the system has relied on voluntary declarations by users. Because this was the system, we do not really know exactly how much water is being collected in Poland, because many companies, companies simply lowered these values from the declaration, and there was not an appropriate control system that would show how much this water is actually collected. Another extremely important function of Water Law is planning. It is about planning that has been launched in the previous Water Law, but is currently covered by EU directives. These are river basin management plans related to these water management plans flood risk management plans, water-environment plans, drought prevention plans. The Minister responsible for Water Management is also drawing up a plan to protect the marine environment. We will introduce an IT system for water management in place of the so-called. water cadastre. This watercaster is also a historical name, but because it is more associated with another cataster, it has been changed to an IT system of water management. This system's a little operational right now. The main goal is to balance all water management, all water resources. We need to know exactly how, where, who and how much water can be taken. I also wanted to return to the fact that, in addition to these variable fees, we introduce fixed fees. These fixed fees are aimed at balancing water resources. The point is, if someone takes, let's assume, more water from the river than any percentage specified in the bill, this fixed fee will increase. We want to ensure the amount of water in the river, availability for other users, and we also want to rationalise these activities, because with water permits someone needed e.g. 1 m3 /s, but just in case he applied for a permit of 10 m3 /s, which blocked other users from using water. Here, by the way, I would like to point out the media information that due to fixed charges the price of water for consumers will increase by PLN 30.40. These fees are at a low level so far, and they're gonna... This is an increase of about 20 gr per year for a 4-person family, or 5 gr per capita. Another extremely important issue is water management control. Since this check was actually written down, but it did not function well, we have clarified some of the procedures involved. Water monitoring is equally important. He's run by the Environmental Protection Inspection. This water monitoring will be used to know what the state of the waters is and then to be able to counteract. The next chapter concerns water power. This concept of water power is precisely from this law of 1922. Here, the Minister responsible for water management will play a key role, who will have supervision over subordinate entities. The National Council for Water Management, the advisory and advisory body of the Minister responsible for water management, will also be set up. Another extremely important thing that is already in operation, but which we want to improve, is the state services: the state hydrological and meteorological service, the state hydrogeological service and the security service for building constructions - this is a service that has been in operation for some time; in fact, before the war, a global organization was created, called the Polish Security Committee for High Dams. All these services will also be financed by means of Polish Waters. The next element is water law. Why do we call it water law? Because at the moment there was only the concept of water law permit. Here we distinguish several types of this water law consent. The first type of water law consent is so-called. Waterclub report. That's thanks, too. I would like to thank you Members for taking this into account, and we introduced this already in 2015. Now we're expanding this directory a little bit. For small water investments of various kinds, for small enterprises, such as the construction of a bridge, the construction of a small pond or a bathing facility, there will be no need for water law permits, only a notification, very simplified, complex lowest - where you live - means in water surveillance. If, after 30 days, there will be no objection, as will the construction reports, it means that it already works. Of course, water law permits remain, water law decisions for all more complex projects. Here, too, I wanted to talk about a system, about a change. Namely the competent authority will be the Polish Waters. These competences will be transferred from old age, from marshals to Polish Waters. Also, as has been done so far, what the old men have done will be on the management board of the water catchment area. What the marshals did will be on the regional water management boards. Any application for water law will be filed in the nearest water surveillance area where someone will be found. Already the issue of Polish Waters will be where this proposal is actually directed on the ground. I also wanted to say here - because I missed a thing, I'm very sorry - about this uniformity in water management management. By virtue of the law, government tasks in the local government administration concerning the current water melioration of basic water, i.e. flood shafts will be performed by the Polish Waters. So the employees from the management board will go to the Polish Waters. There is no need to transfer shafts to Polish Waters, because these devices are devices of the State Treasury. At the moment there is such a system that the budget through the voivodeship transfers funds to the Marshal to carry out tasks and marshals through the voivodship management boards of water equipment melioration of these tasks. Why did we do that? Because it led to many absurdities, among others. I mean, at the border... Often a river, e.g. Wisła, is the border of the voivodships: from the right wał lubelski, from the left - wał świętokrzyski, and in the middle flows Wisła so-called. Government. This led to the fact that one of the marshals tried to increase funds and build a larger shaft, which caused that in the event of flooding the second voivodeship was more at risk. Probably - it is not yet confirmed, I need to check this hypothesis - among others. The flood in Sandomierz was caused by the fact that the Marshal of Świętokrzyski gained funds on the Świętokrzyski side of the embankment, and the Marshal of Podkarpackie did not obtain these funds, perhaps because he was from another option, and all the water flowed in the direction Sandomierz in 2010 [[It was, unfortunately, it was.]] In addition, there are often, on a daily basis, such cases as the construction of shafts, the repair of shafts, the strengthening of them are needed to correct the regulation of the river, which is that the river does not wash this shaft. It is often the case that one institution has money and the other does not have one, but then there are damage from another title. These water permits will be issued by the Polish Waters, but only to external entities, because they cannot issue water permits themselves. Therefore, Polish Waters will be granted water law permits by the Minister responsible for water management. We are also introducing a semi-automatic mechanism for extending water law permits, i.e. reducing red tape. The water law permit shall be issued for a limited period of time. If there is no change, it is enough to apply for an extension. The next novel concerns the introduction of water law assessment. The purpose of the water law assessment is to determine whether the investment concerned is in breach of good water status. In other words, it is an assessment from the 47th derogation of the Water Framework Directive whether this investment is in breach of the Water Framework Directive. If there is a deterioration in water status, it can be done under certain conditions, which is why we introduced it. At the moment, these assessments are addressed by the Regional Environment Directorate. I have to say, from my own practice, I know that there are no professionals in these water cases. Often these water law assessments are an excuse not to agree, not to make an environmental decision at all. We leave water companies and shaft unions as they are right now. I know it's a bit of a lame solution, but so far, no one's come up with a better solution than it is right now. Before the war, there was a very good solution. The execution was about those who didn't want to pay. Then, during the PRL, water companies were unfortunately subsidised in different ways, which caused the partners not to feel obliged to maintain these water companies. This is particularly well seen in areas where there were many more PGRs. We describe liability for damages from various types of titles. There are exceptions here. In flood areas there is no compensation if there is awareness that this is a flood area. Of course, there are criminal rules, transitional and final provisions. So much for telegraph shortcuts, because I've been talking for a long time. I ask the High House to give a positive consideration to the draft Water Law Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u199	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u200	Thank you very much. High Izbo! Minister! The Water Framework Directive, i.e. Directive 2000/60/EC of 23 October 2000, requires the implementation of water catchment management in a functional, safe, sustainable and economically efficient manner. The directive should have been fully implemented more than 2 years ago, but it has not been implemented. The previous government had, as you can see, more pressing issues than providing flood safety for Poles, protecting against the effects of drought or reconciling the achievement of environmental objectives with the economic development of a country which, after all, requires water supply. High Izbo, it must be acknowledged that some of the legal, technical and organisational solutions that have been developed in the European Union are quite reasonable, useful, tested and practiced in other EU countries. You don't have to break open doors, you have to use ready-made solutions. The provisions of the Water Framework Directive had to be introduced, but our predecessors unfortunately had a special interest in combating violence in the family, in partnerships and in other novelties, not to be reasonable. [[Speak to the point.]] Yes, Platform, there's nothing to call out of the seats. You should've let go of those genders, the partnership, and the water law. The High Izbo, the draft law in question, appoints a state legal entity of the Polish Waters. It defines its catalogue of tasks, its organisational structure, financial economy principles, the way in which the State Treasury's owners are exercised, the way in which they are supervised. The organizational structure includes headquarters, regional water management boards, water basin management and water surveillance. The establishment of this large, strong entity will allow for a smooth and flexible financial economy and will facilitate the implementation of the necessary investments. The possibility of multi-annual financial planning will certainly improve the investment process in water management. To date, employees of the National Water Management Board and regional water management boards will become legal employees of Polish Waters, and employees of local self-government units, including voivodship management of water drainage and equipment, will be able to be transferred to a new entity. Under the ownership powers, it will be possible to entrust the local government unit, either to a national park or, by agreement, to exercise these powers for certain categories of public water at the request of those entities. According to Art. 3 The Directive should ensure the efficient management of water resources: planning, protection, introduction of water legislation, proper planning of investments, maintenance of water equipment and minimising flood risk. In turn, the article. The 9th Directive requires the implementation of water resource management based on a system of water services, which will create a new, efficient way of financing water management and a financial stimulus team that stimulates economic, rational management of water resources. We must remember that Poland is not a particularly water-rich country, and the Minister has already mentioned this. Poland is next to the Czech Republic one of the poorest in the water countries of the European Union, where about 1500 m3 of water per capita is available each year... [[Game in the O.R.]] I'd be very grateful to my club buddy if he'd let me work quietly. The bill includes systemic solutions to the problem of chronic underfunding of water management tasks by introducing a principle of reimbursement of the cost of water services and the use of water outside normal or widespread use. This system of water charges results directly from the full transposition of the Article. The 9th Water Framework Directive and is the implementation of the necessary ex ante conditions, which Poland must fulfil by eliminating exemptions from environmental charges, water collection, waste water discharge and other water services. Meeting these ex ante conditions, i.e. an assessment before obtaining EU money, is necessary in order for us to benefit from EUR 3.5 billion of EU support for investments in water management. High Izbo! It is necessary to look for sources of funding for investments in water management, but of course this picture of the real Armageddon, which will take place after the entry into force of this law and which the media have been painting for months, has nothing to do with reality. It is not true that the claim is repeated e.g. by the Chamber of Commerce of Polish Waterworks, that immediately after the entry into force of the Act the costs of water supply and sewage discharge will increase... [[They're going up!]] Let's say that for an average Polish family of 3 and 4 people this will be an increase of PLN 30 and 40 per year. The bill will not cause a radical rise in water prices. Incidentally, at the meetings of the environmental committee, we looked at the NIK report on the formation of water prices for consumers by waterworks, and it was clear that these prices were in complete isolation from cost-creating indicators, from cost-creating factors, which also need to be looked at. On the other hand, the fees present today will remain unchanged for 2 years after the entry into force of the Act, while Water Law determines the upper rates of charges and unit rates will be specified in the Act implementing the Act. High Izbo! Properly conducted water management should meet the needs of the population in the field of water supply, meet the needs of many sectors of the economy, including agriculture, tourism, recreation, and allow rivers to be used as environmentally friendly waterways for water transport. It should enable the achievement and maintenance of good water status and potential and associated ecosystems - the dignified state, without water, has no life, especially in nature - to counteract the effects of drought, should seek to minimise flood risks and ensure safety and flood protection for citizens, also using appropriate spatial planning and management as a tool. In the current Water Law, the scope of the responsibility of the President of the National Water Management Board is very wide, and the scope of supervisory and control powers of the Minister responsible for water management, which is, after all, accountable to the Sejm, before the Prime Minister, is seriously limited. The draft law discussed here today is changing this disadvantage by giving the competent minister the instruments of supervision. The President of Polish Waters will therefore be obliged to agree with the Minister on key decisions, especially with investment plans, an annual evaluation of the operation of Polish Waters will be prepared, and the Minister will carry out a periodic evaluation of the President of Polish Waters and approve the financial statements of this institution. Every 2 years, the Minister will also provide the Sejm with information on water management, including the state of water resources, implementation of water management plans, implementation of investments, cooperation in border waters, water maintenance tasks and flood risk management plans and prevention of drought, civil protection and property from flooding and from drought. High Izbo! The draft of the new Water Law fundamentally changes the legal and organisational structure of public administrations competent in water management matters. To date, the merger in RZGW, i.e. regional water management boards, competence in managing the assets of the State Treasury and carrying out key investments and making local law and issuing water law permits, has proved completely non-functional. The activities of the RGW shall not be effective, timely or effective. Unfortunately, in the previous term of office, neither the first nor the two terms of office were found to be effective, and the only project that appeared on this issue was quickly deprived of the 4th and 5th chapters, for which the Platform Members were eager to vote, seeing massive criticism, so we are finally dealing with a coherent and good draft regulation of these matters. The new organizational unit - the state legal entity Water Polskie - will take over the financing of the state hydrological and meteorological service, the state hydrogeological service and the state service for. the safety of flooring structures. The resources of Polish Waters will be available to finance water management tasks carried out by state budget units. The State budget will create a special reserve corresponding to the appropriations provided by the Polish Waters for the operation of these state budget units. High Izbo! Time like a river, as the river flows - Czesław Niemen once sang. The time for my speech is slow, but, worse still, the previous parliamentary majority was eight years of government, completely unproductive. During the two term of your government, you have done nothing good for water management. After your governments, the minister of the environment must catch up: four laws, water law, 17 regulations - I will not calculate because I have no time. [[Lex Szysko.]] High Izbo! That is how it is, that it was not only your country that was theoretical, but also your great love for the European Union, since we found 21 infringement proceedings against EU law. It is the Government of Law and Justice that saves the situation, cleans and repairs after yours, POs, parties. Even your main ones. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The slogan that supposedly the most important for Poles is warm water in the tap, in the context of the work on the Water Law turned out to be false and a great blessing. Water is beginning to run out, my fellow Member, even cold. [[You'll clean up in the Bialowieza Forest.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u201	We are almost done here, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u202	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I apply for the transfer of the government's print project No. 1529 to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Public Finance. To conclude, I wanted very, very cordially...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u203	Member, it's time...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u204	...to thank Minister Mariusz Gajda for the great work put into the preparation of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u205	Thank you very much. [[Humility, fellow Member, humility! You've only been in charge for a year and a half.]] [[Oh, it hurts, it hurts.]] Mr Stanisław Gawłowski, the Civic Platform Club, will perform on behalf of this club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u206	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First, I will refer my opinion to the Member. From 1 May 2004 the Water Framework Directive should apply in Poland in its entirety. So much for the value of your speech. Because if you're wrong about such an obvious matter, then... [[You were 8 years old, Mr. Former Minister. You were eight years old and you didn't do anything.]] Marshal, would you mind calming the Member down?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u207	Mr President, you, too, are not to answer or refer to the Member, but to present the position of your club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u208	I'll do it right away. I just want to...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u209	If you'd started with that, there wouldn't have been a discussion. I ask the Member to avoid comments. [[It is not only that the Member responds, but it bothers me, your marshal.]] Please state your position and not discuss it with the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u210	Thank you very much, Marshal. I hope I can make it in peace. That's one thing. Secondly, Minister, I even feel sorry for you, I really feel sorry for you. You're presenting a project that you're not the author of, and you know it, and I know it. To a large extent, it is a project that unfortunately is castrated from those areas that you wanted to put into your original project. Hence, I understand the tone that makes it really nothing to brag about. [[False compassion, false compassion.]] You had at your disposal a project that we left behind, a draft adopted by the Council of Ministers' standing committee, a draft agreed, many years consulted with different environments, a project that took into account all the important interests of all stakeholders, all the parties, a project that led to the decentralised management of water in Poland, a project in line with European Union law. I'll tell you that I'm even glad that there's really a lot of records from this previous project that you're proposing, even more, you're using the same example. as for public debates in this part of the Vistula - Świętokrzyskie - Podkarpackie. I just didn't add political threads because they don't matter. This is wrong and wrong of you. But what did you propose? Like the PiS, you're proposing centralization, you're proposing a monopoly, you think putting all the water management issues into one big organism will make this management better. You are convinced that in Warsaw you will know where the rivers Dzierżęcinka, Wieprz, Wieprzą, and you will make decisions about small watercourses in Podkarpackie, Western Pomerania, and you will decide better than everyone else downstairs, what in their interest to do. Well, Minister, that's never worked out for anyone, and you're not gonna make it either, and there's no doubt about that either. It's a management element, and you're the elementator, obviously, he hasn't done anything. You will, without doubt, increase the administration, because what you want to do will result in a huge increase in employment in this institution, which you want to call, which is called the Polish Waters. The increase will be caused not only by the fact that you are taking over the competence of the Marshal's offices in the part concerning the collection of the provincial managements of melioration and water equipment and the acquisition under the wings of the Polish Waters. In addition, you want to take away their powers regarding water permits, you want to create a new big segment, a department that will deal with the tariffing of water and sewage prices at the level of the task that the municipalities are carrying out today. Of course, it's possible from a formal point of view, but I'm just wondering why you're doing this. After all, you will not know better how to set a tariff in individual municipalities, because the local authorities, which acted under the pressure of their own voters, are really very rational in this space moving, and if they know that they can't raise prices more, they are still trying to act in such a way that it is the budget of the municipality that supports actions concerning water and sewage prices. Of course, you are talking about the fact that the main action involved in implementing this law is the implementation of European law. You know, I'd actually agree with you, too. The problem, or your problem, is that you implement by throwing out a number of rules. [[What a vocabulary.]] Because in Poland, in fact, except for one article, art. 9 Water Framework Directive, other provisions were implemented. In repeated amendments to the laws, but they were implemented. The European Commission in this part had no problem with Poland. But you, by introducing the principle of transfer of river management, that is so nicely named, excluding inland waterways of particular transport importance, makes this law incompatible with the Water Framework Directive. This will be a flagrant example of non-compliance with the Water Framework Directive and this €3.5 billion is still at stake, Minister. [[He has already eaten all his senses and will rule on compliance with the directive.]] You know that by talking to the staff of the European Commission, and I know that. Very often on such problems which previously occurred in Poland, these workers pointed out. So you're not implementing this law essentially the basic purpose that you're proposing this project for, so you're not fulfilling your ex ante conditionality. Further, this European money, which is to go to Poland, will be at risk. All of this together makes me... Let me help you. Let's not cheat the European Commission, let's not pretend. Do not really pretend that you want to solve anything within the framework of the Water Framework Directive, anything in the water law section, because, apart from the increase in administrative expenditure, you do not increase the expenditure on water management. I know. You're charging. There will probably be nearly 200 million more revenues under these charges. But you're gonna spend it all on the administration. You won't have a single dollar for real action... [[No one's gonna beat you at spending money.]] ...for water management. Therefore, Minister, on behalf of the club, I request that this project be rejected at first reading. I'm aware that you have math on your side. [[You have no shame, sir. Worse than a gardener's dog, he won't eat himself, and he won't give another.]] But take this responsibility entirely on your shoulders, because we certainly will not support the wrong project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u211	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz - the rest - on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u212	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Water Law should be a framework law that prevails over sectoral acts describing the use of resources that may affect the state of the water environment. In the first place, this law should describe the principles of the use of natural resources, ensuring that every citizen has access to water that is fit for use today, and also in the future, as the most important strategic resource. The Act should therefore provide for any means of economic exploitation of water resources from preserving or ensuring the improvement of both surface and groundwater. The provision of such an approach follows directly from the Article. 5 Constitutions. Unfortunately, the presented project deviates completely from the outline vision presented by the Minister in such a way that this is allegedly the case. It appears as a collection, an expression of conflicting interests of different groups trying to achieve their goals, unfortunately, at the expense of good water status and at the expense of social interest. Let me overlook the legislative procedure and the shape of this law, which is chaotic. She won't be viable. This is a comprehensive document, which has 570 articles, several hundred pages, mutually contradictory and illegible, with tautology. I will focus on what is the most important issue, namely that it is incompatible not only with the general spirit of the Water Framework Directive, but, above all, with specific provisions that may pose a threat to further disputes with the European Commission. This applies to Article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 4 (1) of the project to the extent that it confers on the land owner the right to use normal waters including the possibility of free underground water collection, etc., Article. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 7 project to the extent that it enables the determination of the value necessary to preserve the integrity of the flow of 50% average low flow from multiple years for water law permits issued for fish farming or farming purposes and other aquatic organisms. These are some concrete examples that will be attacked. First of all, it is incompatible with the Aarhus Convention. The provisions of the project infringe the obligations incumbent on Poland in this respect, in particular when this project excludes the application of the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure in proceedings concerning water permits relating to the participation of NGOs in these proceedings. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There is also a non-compliance with the Nitrate Directive, where this can be described in detail. I understand that we will still work in committees and try to save some of these records, but this is a bad project, badly designed and not meeting those goals that are being addressed by the government, which is guiding this idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u213	Thank you very much, Member. Before we begin the presentation of the position by the next club, allow me to welcome a group of volunteers from the Junior High School. Fr. Jerzy Popieluszka from Łętnice, the village of Majdan Łętowski. [[Applause]] Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Enjoy your stay in the Seym and enjoy it. Welcome to the second group, too. I do not know where you are from, but I wish you a successful stay in the Sejm as well as the previous group. And now I ask Mr Jarosław Sachaika to speak on behalf of the Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u214	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I am pleased to present my position on the Government Water Law project. First of all, I would like to stress that this is a very important project, which does not apply only to one social group and affects Poles in general. Water is good. as a result of many years of negligence, I will stress: long-term negligence - in the management of water resources is also a very poor good today. Our country has extremely poor water resources, whose efficiency of use is at a very low level. More and more problems arise in various regions of Poland regarding difficulties in water supply, including drinking water. During numerous meetings, farmers informed me that the problem of drought and the gradual stepping of our country, resulting in a significant decrease in yield, which further translates into cost-effectiveness of production and leads to the bankruptcy of these farms. The fact is that water management has been underfunded in Poland for years. While EU countries spend 0.6% on this its GDP, our country only allocates 0.2% to this end GDP. In addition to modest funding, however, we also have another problem, which is disrespectful of water resources, which we often think are inexhaustible. Meanwhile, our country is struggling with water shortages, although this can be considered improbable. Currently, in Poland, there are about 1600 m3 of water per year per capita, and during drought periods this rate falls below 1000 m3 per person per year. In comparison, the average population of Western Europe is around 4.5 000 per year. m3, which is over four times more. With regard to some concrete solutions proposed in the draft law, I would like to address the proposal to consider the entire area of Poland particularly vulnerable to nitrogen leakage from agricultural sources. This will involve imposing new obligations and restrictions on all commodity holdings, including: with regard to the use of fertilisers or the need to expand manure plates. Any obligation on farmers should be appropriate to the scale of the problem. Nitrogen fertilization is not the main cause of pollution of Baltic waters, which is why it is incomprehensible to hold farmers responsible for this state of affairs. Furthermore, possible changes should not in any way affect the profitability of agricultural production or the agri-food industry. At the same time, we must take into account a sufficiently long transition period that would allow farms and industry to adapt to new conditions. We cannot make such far-reaching changes to quickly, under the pressure of the European Union, because they pose a threat to the existence and functioning of Polish agriculture and industry. I would like to draw your attention to another aspect of this law. The Water Law project should be prepared and adopted by the previous coalition, PO-PSL, and no adoption must be considered as damaging to Poland. The current Ministry of Environment has been working on the bill almost since the beginning of the term of office. Not until the end of April this year. The project went to the Sejm. According to government representatives, the adoption of the new Water Law by the end of June is a prerequisite for Poland to receive EUR 3.5 billion from EU funds for investments in water management. In view of such a short period of time for the work of Members, the Act may contain a number of shortcomings which, as a result of the haste, may have been overlooked. Such treatment of the law and Members is highly reprehensible. I hope that further work on this bill will begin as soon as possible, even tomorrow, as many amendments need to be made to it. Therefore, given the importance of the proposed regulation and the importance of the matter covered by the draft law, I request that it be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u215	Thank you very much. And I will ask Mr Mark Owl to speak on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u216	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present our position on the government proposal for the Water Law Act. Water management in Poland needs reform, that's a fact. But instead of reform, you are proposing a revolution. In my deep conviction, such profound changes should be implemented gradually. The environments concerned expected effective changes in planning, water management, water management and maintenance of water and water equipment, but the draft law submitted deviates far from those expectations. It must be acknowledged that the lack of regulation in this area is the result of long-term negligence. It is true that there was sufficient time to prepare and adopt other solutions in line with the 2000 Directive and other directives. It is also true that it is not an easy project, it is probably best known by Minister Gawłowski, who worked on Water Law for several years. We therefore have no objection to the government's presentation of its author's proposal, but we cannot agree that, in addition to the necessary and urgent implementation of the directive establishing a framework for Community action in the field of water policy, the aim of this law is to centralise the performance of water management tasks. Is that a big surprise? No. Centralisation and the taking away of tasks that have been successfully carrying them out over the years are a permanent element of every legislative process of the Government of Law and Justice. The draft law is therefore another link in the chain of legislative changes centralising everything that is possible because the government does not recognise the principle of decentralisation of public tasks and finances. Contrary to the millions of Poles and Poles who appreciate the important role played by the government, the PiS state, instead of adding powers to local governments, wants to take them back. And that's the first important thread I'd like to focus on for a while. All water management tasks carried out by the Old Towns, Marshal Offices and their units, mainly the provincial management of water drainage and equipment, are taken over by the State Water Farm of Poland. You are proposing such revolutionary solutions without a reliable analysis of whether your proposal makes sense. I have 15 years of experience working in the local government and I remember very well what is the difference - even in the case of processing and issuing water permits - in terms of the performance of tasks by government and local government administration. It's about processing time, the quality of service. There is no comparison, of course, in favour of the local government. I have no doubt that there won't be much time, and you'll find out for yourself. The second task is to improve flood safety. It is true that this task is commissioned, that it is largely financed by the state budget, even from the reserve that you have radically cut for the past two years. But without organisational and financial involvement, flood safety would be at a much lower level. The funds obtained from European funds, from the World Bank, environmental funds and own budgets are counted in tens of billions of zlotys. I don't want it to sound like I don't see the need for change. I think it's right to put in place a water catchment system, a combination of the river manager and a downfall along the river. This rational action should have been introduced long ago. It will be easier to manage, plan and implement investments. Today, too, I must tell you that I understand better the motives behind the taking away of environmental funds from the regions. It's quiet tonight. Nobody protests that 35% of the fees charged by the Marshals of the voivodships will go directly to the Polish Voivodship. Environmental funds will practically remain without funding, but they will have the tasks to finance them. Entrepreneurs and local governments will find it much harder to raise funds for the fight for clean air, for sewerage, for a number of other programs. I don't understand why you want to turn on little leaks in the Polish Waters. After all, no one from the central level will be doing this and, I believe, on the basis of the projection of the Polish Waters budget, will have the resources for this task. The government in a wide range of financial revenues of Polish Vodka wrote down subsidies from local government units, while in the Memorandum of Understanding after the adoption of this project it noted that the Council of Ministers in relation to the planned creation of PGW Polskie Water does not assume additional funding from the state budget. So the myth that money would flow from the state budget ended its existence on October 18th. Why? The answer is simple. I can already imagine what investment and maintenance of water equipment in municipalities will be like in practice - if you pay, you will have done if you do not, then you will not. It will probably not take long to find out in practice. I want to tell you that this was the case, but then it didn't work out. I think that is also the motive that you have not agreed on this project in the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission. Of course, there are other objectives for these changes, including the establishment of a universal system of water service charges. That's the key word to this bill. In this way, you put another load in the back door. We can speak of the new PiS water tax. It's not just the art. 273 talks about it. In this context, I would like to point out that this contradicts what the government spokesperson said just after the adoption of the Water Law project by the government. It is worth recalling: according to the Prime Minister's personal decision there will be no increase in water charges, the same fees will apply as in 2016, both for business and for consumers. Article analysis 273, a significant part of the justification and assessment of the impact of regulation leaves no doubt - the increases are high, drastic, the increase of 7 and 10 times says everything. Let me remind you: for the purposes of water supply - from less than 7 gr to 70 gr, for inland waters - from 4 gr to 40 gr. For industry for the production of social goods - from less than 10 gr to 70 gr, for the production of beverages - from 11 gr to 70 gr. You're introducing farm fees, for energy, for every sector. Either the Prime Minister lied, telling her spokesperson that there would be no raises, or she was deceived by her ministers from the Ministry of Environment, or the Sejm was influenced by a project that was not adopted by the Council of Ministers. Honestly, there's no good way out of this for the government. You have to say it loud and clear: you're lying and you're trying to figure it out. That's probably why the bill only passed six months after the government's adoption was sent to the Sejm and you're leaving us a month to work in two Chambers and receive it. [[Where have you been?]] [[Oh, what are you guys doing?]] They are inevitably approaching and threatening us with drastic increases in water prices. According to information collected by the Polish Waterworks, we are expected to raise about 15% . The new fees will hit the whole sector of the economy, it will reduce the competitiveness of the Polish economy. Yes, it is true that the directive requires the use of water to be made. Effective water management should ensure that the necessary quantity and quality of surface and groundwater resources are maintained and that any risks related to its deficit and surplus are removed or minimised. In order to do so, investment is needed both in flood safety and in inland waterways. The cost of these investments is calculated in tens, if not hundreds of billions of zlotys. And there's no such thing as that either. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern proposal to reject a government draft Water Law Act at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u217	Thank you. As the second person to speak on behalf of the Modern Club, I would like to ask Mrs Elizabeth Stępień. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u218	First of all, the Water Law should clearly and clearly describe the objectives it is intended to serve. Among them, the social interest, the provision of usable water to current and future generations should be a priority. This broad concept must include quantity, quality and social security, while at a later stage it must include a development base for various sectors. Equally, but environmental targets should be placed at the next positions. They relate to the former, because scientific evidence - hence the creation of a Water Framework Directive - clearly shows that only water as near as possible constitutes natural people meet these goals. In addition, keeping them in this form does not cost, unlike any artificial organization of management. This project does not contain this in any place, in any legible and understandable form. Another drawback of this project is the lack of links between the objectives and the functioning framework ensuring that these objectives are safe. It's a rift from the art. 5th Constitution, according to which the State has a duty to ensure the sustainability of resources for future generations. The project ensures that it favours destruction for very uncertain interests. It can be noted that the studies on which, for example, it is based. shipping assumptions, created on order and for money in the shipping sector. They deliberately ignore a large part of the costs to create an illusion of the sector's profitability. Then I would cast the bill in the proposed form of its deliberate overdevelopment and refinement, making any possible necessary changes... Such things should be contained in documents, in sub-indices, which describe the activities of individual sectors - water users, and some even in implementing regulations, which are by nature quick to implement if necessary. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In such a form, this law is difficult to accept and indeed modern is not able to accept it in this form. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u219	Thank you very much, Member. And Mrs Urszula Pasławska, the club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u220	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to present the position of the club on the draft Water Law Act, print no. 1529. The draft law submitted is an attempt to adapt Polish law to the requirements of European standards contained in the Water Framework Directive. The aim of this regulation should be to create a transparent, efficient and coherent legislative framework. Such regulation would be guaranteed by the establishment of a real and effective water authority with an impact on water management planning, water protection, including investment in water, maintenance of water facilities and ultimately maintaining good water status. That's the idea. What will end with an attempt to introduce the proposed provisions? One thing is certain: this trial will end in total chaos. Already now, the resort of the environment with the Ministry of Maritime Economy is competing for water management, and the Minister of Energy also sees in geothermal water rescue, an opportunity to improve the Polish energy balance. The idea of creating an effective power includes the establishment of the State Water Farm of Poland - a megastate legal person. Similarity to the State Forest Forest Farm seems not to be accidental and even uniforming appears, only that State Forests are an institution with almost an age-old tradition, and Polish Waters are simply a political idea for consolidation of many institutions, including the acquisition of voivodship management boards which are currently part of the administration of the voivodship government. Minister, in this connection, I have a question: What about the staff of the melioration boards, the experts, the long-term experts? Will they, as in the Civil Service Act, lose their day-to-day work for the more disposable ones? The Polish waters are to be the property management unit of the State Treasury, as well as the water authority itself, to be responsible for the acquisition and collection of funds generated by water management, as well as their spending on investments in water management and the maintenance of water and other property of the State Treasury. Polish waters will be a centralised unit of government administration with an extensive, multi-level internal structure. How is this machine supposed to find a citizen who wants to build a pier on a lake or a farmer who has problems with the drainage of his land? I have serious concerns that the proposed changes will not make life easier for the citizen. A significant part of the proposed law is provisions on different types of water service charges, including the setting of a maximum of those charges. It appears that such solutions may require frequent amendment of the law and should be referred back to specific provisions in the form of a regulation. It should be noted that the government is eager to point out the necessary elimination of the existing exemptions for the use of water resources. You say: it's EU rules, you have to pay so that we can meet the ex ante conditions, which will allow us to mobilise aid for water and sewage investments. However, in the European Union, firstly, it is possible to adapt the rates to the economic opportunities of the Member States, and secondly, nowhere is it indicated that the citizen and his wallet should be responsible for covering the costs of this obligation. It is the citizen who will bear the costs of several hundred percent increase in the costs and charges associated with the collection of drinking water and the discharge of melting and rainwater, which local authorities will ultimately cover. The potential impact on entrepreneurs is also alarming. The amount of fees and the uncertainty about the timing of their introduction and the way in which they are calculated, the variable annual rates, the obligation to purchase meters for each beneficiary cause great concern to farmers, fishermen, beverage producers and other food producers that the fees will significantly reduce their ability to compete with producers from other countries where there are no or they are illusory. The introduction of the law will also lead to a revolution in the health finance system. The Polish Waters will receive part of the fees that went to environmental and water funds and voivodship funds. It is estimated that the income of the voivodship funds may fall by up to 50%. Is this not a threat to the continuity of funding and the functioning of these funds? Are there any plans to change the name of these funds and the extent to which they operate? The new law also provides for the creation of a price regulator. It would start operating from 2019 as part of the new Polish Water Institute. The price regulator will enter the local authorities' existing competences, specifying the price of water and waste water. It seems that this is just a step towards taking over local government institutions and water and sewage companies. I would also like to emphasise the regional theme, because Warmia and Mazury, from which I come, are associated with water. Tourists, hotelers, sailors express great concern about the tolls for piers and piers on lakes. Similar concerns arise from the use of fishing waters. How will the bill improve the fishing stock in Masurian lakes? Because fish is not only the best water quality indicator, but also a magnet for visitors visiting Mazury. It would also be worth considering at this point the possibility for the local government to indicate the law to assess the model of water use. Is this supposed to be a fishing model, or is it supposed to be an economic model? The issue of fish in the lakes of Warmia and Mazury is an extremely important and crazy matter, strongly affecting the development of the tourism of my region. Finally, I would like to quote a few quotes. We asked the local authorities for opinions on your bill. The mayor or self-government Barlinka writes: Because of such a comprehensive law, introducing a number of new and revolutionary solutions, it is surprising that the indication of the proposed date of entry into force of the new law in its essential part covers 1 July 2017. City of Bobolice: The proposed increase in charges for rainwater discharge is of particular concern, especially as the basis for calculation is also to be changed. Gmina Trzcinsko-Zdrój: It is very risky and incomprehensible to propose revolutionary changes, and very quickly. We have a few hundred opinions of local government. We are talking to local governments and local authorities who represent local society, about this law and we have not met with a positive opinion so far. That should give you some thought, too. We have in mind that the bill is very much needed, i.e. The implications of the Water Directive are very much needed in order to mobilise European funds for the implementation of water and sewage investments. We're aware of that. On the other hand, as regards the version that you have presented, with such burdens for society, for the processing industry, for farmers, we cannot support the procedure further on the draft law and, of course, support the proposal to reject it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u221	Thank you very much. On behalf of Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan's Free and Solidarni Circle. Before that, let me welcome you to the gallery. They're students from the Ostrowice district with their guardians. You are participants in the essay contest dedicated to Marshal Józef Piłsudski, who was organized by Mr Andrzej Kryj in connection with the celebrations of the Year of Marshal Józef Piłsudski, and the winners of the competition of knowledge about the Seym organized under the patronage of the Marshal of the Sejm. Congratulations. [[Applause]] I hope that your knowledge will be useful in listening to the Sejm's deliberations, in any case, I wish you a pleasant stay. I ask the Member to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u222	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the Government's draft Water Law Act. The main objective of the Act is to facilitate monitoring of drainage equipment and flood shafts, which is to increase the safety of the population and reduce the risk of flooding. According to the Ministry of Environment, current submersions are caused by weak flood-proof infrastructure. According to the Ministry, the new law will allow better preparation for a possible high state of water. If the Ministry's assessments are correct, the law should be implemented as soon as possible. The safety of people living in vulnerable areas is paramount. The draft of the new law envisages the creation of the National Water Farm of Poland, which will deal with all public waters. Until now, management has been scattered. Some waters were subject to local governments and some to central authorities. There is no discussion that this has hindered coordination of actions, particularly during the threat. The draft Water Law Act also provides for the creation of about 50 water catchment managements throughout Poland. Full implementation of water management policies that meet functional and safety criteria is an important task that we face in the context not only of economic but also of society. The draft law aims to implement more than 20 EU directives and ensure the sustainable management of water resources in accordance with the existing European Union directives in Poland, including the Strategic Adaptation Plan for Climate Change-sensitive Areas and Sectors. The introduction of a new water law will promote the sustainable development of Poland and stabilise the situation of this area of the economy. According to the Act, the State Water Farm of Poland will have the power to raise extra-budget funds while fully controlling its activities and investments. The creation of a new water unit in Poland will relieve local governments, which will have fewer obligations resulting from the tasks commissioned by the government administration. The project, as demonstrated by the Ministry, is the result of multi-annual analyses and requests led by water users, as well as suggestions and comments made by numerous stakeholders in society. That's why his assumptions seem right. A law to ensure flood safety is undoubtedly needed. I am also pleased in this context with the Ministry's declaration that it plans to allocate significant amounts to flood-related investments in the coming years. I am convinced that the law introduced can ensure that investments in water management are increased and that funding from the European Union is more effective. I hope that the procedated law will not change water charges both for entrepreneurs and for individual consumers, and that the Prime Minister's declarations in this respect will be met in 2017 and 2018. Circle of Free and Solidarni requests that the bill be further examined and transferred to committee work, in particular to the agricultural committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u223	Thank you very much, Member. 35 persons were included on the list of Members to speak. Anyone else want to sign up? That's 36 people. I will close the list when you sign up. And we begin with Mr Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform Club. Time - 1 minute. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u224	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In October 2016, the government spokesperson announced after the Council of Ministers that, according to the Prime Minister's personal decision, there would be no increase in water charges. However, one of the negative consequences of the entry into force of this law will be the increase in costs for water and sewage companies, which will translate into increases in water prices for individual and institutional customers. So here we are dealing with another lie of the PiS, as in the case of miners, when jobs were not to be liquidated, but were to be created new. As a result of the implementation of the law, exemptions from water charges will also be removed, including those used. by small water power plants, thermal energy companies, breeding ponds or water-producing companies, e.g. in spas. My question is this. As long as and since water prices for individual farms and institutional customers increase and whether the operating costs of the enterprises I mentioned earlier increase, [[♪ The bell ♪]] will it translate into an increase in the cost of products and services? If so, was this estimated by the Ministry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u225	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Kostus, the Civic Platform Club, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u226	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Upper Silesian Water Supply Company, which supplies water with approx. 3 million people from Śląskie and Małopolskie voivodships presented their own calculations... [[Thieves.]] ...on the consequences of this project. So far at the GPW for 1 m? water had to pay PLN 2.25. If the Water Law Act enters into force, the price will have to rise to PLN 2.74, i.e. by 49 gr. This means an increase of 21% and this increase will directly affect consumers. That's why I'm asking you to tell me how much more he'll pay, according to the ministry, the average four-person family. How much will the indirect costs for electricity, heat, goods and services increase? I would also like to ask what revenue the state budget will bring, according to the Ministry's calculations, new water rates. There's one more thing. The new Water Law moves the marshal's powers [[♪ The bell ♪]] Voivodship directly under the jurisdiction of the voivodship. At the same time, the Regional Management Boards of melioration and water equipment will be wound up and a new unit - Polish Waters will be created. I ask the Minister to answer the question as to whether the employees of the provincial management board of drainage and water equipment will be employed in the new institution. Can they feel safe? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u227	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Chmielowiec, club Law and Justice, another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u228	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The contested law is intended to fully implement the EU Water Framework Directive, including a controversial Article. 9 talking about the so-called. the reimbursement of the costs of water services. I have four questions. Is it true that the work on the draft of the new legislation started the previous coalition governing PO-PSL in 2011 and 2012? In line with the announcements made at that time, the Council of Ministers was to consider it in mid-2015. If you have that knowledge, tell me why this law was not implemented in the previous term. Is it true that Poland has been reprimanded for the incomplete implementation of European law on this matter? Is it true that if Water Law is not adopted by the end of June, the European Commission will be able to suspend refunds from this area? The game is played by EUR 3.5 billion. And the fourth question. Does Water Law tempt water supply companies, the basis for sudden and jumping water prices? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u229	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Biernat, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u230	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Will the proposed changes not reduce the competence of local, district and voivodship authorities? As we know, the old men and marshals are currently issuing water permits, and the marshals are managing smaller rivers, streams and flood shafts. Why is the competence of these individuals going to be limited? The second question concerns the previous project. The PO-PSL project assumed the creation of two management boards of two water catchment areas, Vistula with its registered office in Bydgoszcz and Odra with its registered office in Wrocław, as state legal entities. Were these not solutions similar to the creation of a state legal person, such as the Polish Waters? And the third question. How will water use fees affect the profitability of freshwater fish farming? I mean... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Above all, carp breeding. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u231	Thank you very much. Mr Richard Galla, not associated. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u232	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Government's draft Water Law Act accepts that as of 1 July this law will be in operation and thus, one month after the entry into force of the Act, the State Water Farm of Poland will also operate. I would like to ask the Minister whether you really are able to reorganise these institutions so efficiently that they will be able to function in a non-threatening way, all the more so because the summer period is a particular period when we often meet with various types of floods. I hope they're not there. But is the ministry really determined and prepared to function? I would also like to ask you about the charges for using inland waterways, their sections and water equipment, and in particular I would like to ask you about the charges for the so-called. use of mucus at different times of the day. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We remember the protests that occurred in the environment, about the fact that these fees due to the timing can be very different. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u233	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u234	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, Minister, I would like to thank you for the changes introduced by the Government's draft Water Law Act. As it was said, we are introducing regulations that should have been discussed by this House two years ago. Unfortunately, total opposition is interfering.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u235	Madam, this is a question time. Congratulations will be made after the adoption.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u236	Let me add a question to that. Therefore, I wanted to ask you questions. Wouldn't the new Water Law limit the development of inland waterways? The second question concerns groundwater. Why are underground waters subject to the Water Law Act, not the Geological and Mining Law Act? And the third question. Where they can be used [[♪ The bell ♪]] surplus generated during the year by water supply undertakings? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u237	Thank you so much for these questions. Ms Agata Borowiec, the Law and Justice Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u238	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We all know that the need for a new Water Law comes from EU legislation. The implementation of this right will unlock an additional pool of EUR 3.5 billion for investments in water management. However, in the face of the new Water Law, many questions have been raised, Minister, hence my questions. What will the cooperation of Polish Vodka with local governments, national parks and State Forests be like when they are not included in the catalogue of bodies exercising ownership rights to flowing waters? Second question. What exactly is the implementation of the Nitrates Directive? Does this mean that farmers will bear its costs? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u239	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Miazga, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u240	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It was regrettable to hear Mr Gawłowski, representative of the Civic Platform, who had just criticised the draft Water Law Act. The previous government was obliged to prepare this law and did nothing about it, and today it proposes to reject the bill, knowing that the failure to adopt this law threatens Poland with many financial restrictions. [[How about a question?]] Minister, in connection with the Water Law Act, I have questions, of course. Will the villagers bear the so-called. rainy fees for each roof and property? Isn't there a danger that the Polish Water Company will lead to the privatisation of water? How can we reconcile the implementation of the Water Framework Directive, which sets environmental objectives, with the development of the country? Are there proper records? And the last. Is there any chance of setting up a regional water management board in Rzeszów? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u241	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Club Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u242	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Ministry of Environment talks about an increase in tariffs for water and sewage in the amount of approx. 30 PLN for a 4-person family, which will take place from 2019. However, in the light of the proposed Water Law, such a scale of increases will take place at the time of the entry into force of the Act, i.e. Since July 2017, it is the introduction of fixed fees for the collection of water and for the introduction of waste water into water or to land. I have one brief question. Will the revenue from the proposed water and sewage charges cover expenditure on water management? In Żywiec we have for a long time unsolved problem of demolishing Lake Żywiec, a large artificial retention tank. I do not see the rush to carry out this task, and it is now crucial for the region. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's no money for that. I'm asking for an answer. I would like the Minister to check when this task is expected to be carried out and prepare a written position. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u243	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Głuchowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u244	One more question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u245	Madame, you've used your time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u246	Mr. Marshal, you're being rude. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u247	Please, Mr Krzysztof Głuchowski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u248	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Why is it so complicated to organise bathing sites under the proposed law? It seems that this is unnecessarily complicated and can reduce their number. In the new Water Law, will the municipalities be obliged to prohibit construction, to prohibit the granting of construction permits in flood areas indicated on flood risk maps? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u249	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u250	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I wanted to ask you a very specific question. Well, first of all, have you made such estimates, how much more will such a standard 4-person family pay for water per month? It's not just about the water that flies from the tap, it's about all the products that contain water: all the liquids, all the other things that water is used for. However, these regulations will affect everyone: they will touch Poles, they will touch entrepreneurs. So, have you even counted how much more a four-person family will pay because you want to create more places for your Misiewicz? The second question concerns entrepreneurs. How much will the cost of mineral water production increase? How much will the standard 1.5 litre bottle of mineral water go? 'Cause it's gonna get expensive, we know. The question is, do you know how much this production will cost? Ladies and gentlemen! I just wanted to ask you one more question, [[♪ The bell ♪]] concerning the people, the specialists who work today in the area that you intend to regulate. Will you fire them all?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u251	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u252	Will everyone go to the pavement? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Water Law project by the Ministry of Environment entered the Council of Ministers on 26 April 2016, i.e. more than a year ago. The Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers finally adopted its draft on 9 November 2016. I would like to ask: In view of the fact that, even a year later, on 26 April 2017, the draft was addressed to the Sejm, what happened during this period? Because there's no sign of a six-month vacation on both RCL sites and public space. This is of interest in the context that we, with this extremely comprehensive document, are about to get acquainted with the draft regulations by 1 July. How does that apply? [[♪ The bell ♪]] the correct legislative technique? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u254	Thank you very much. Greetings to the third grade of junior high in Korzenna, guests of Mrs Bartus. [[Applause]] The question will be asked by Mr Jan Duda, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u255	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Poland is an exceptionally poor country in terms of water resources. This statement has been made here many times. However, financial solutions have not yet been developed to address this problem. We continue to face flood risks arising from sudden meltdowns, heavy rains, and droughts during summer periods. I would like to ask the Minister: What is the scale of investment needs in water resources in Poland? Does the Act provide for the financing of these investments and how? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u256	Thank you very much. We also greet the second group, although we do not know where it is from. [[Applause]] Mr Jerzy Gosievski, the Law and Justice Club, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u257	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, The application of the existing Water Law on the legal and organisational structure of water management bodies over 14 years has revealed numerous dysfunctions which have a fundamental impact on the difficult situation in the water management sector. There are particularly numerous problems with the investment process in water management with a major impact on life, health and property of the population. Minister, to what extent do you think the new Water Law will speed up investment processes in water management? Does the government provide compensation for farmers in Warmia and Mazury for the restrictions imposed by the Water Law e.g. In the use of fertilisers? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u258	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Kwitek, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u259	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the following questions. Will households and farms using groundwater or surface water in the normal use of water be exempted from charging for the water collected and the obligation to have measuring equipment? Does the Act provide for funding of flood-related investments from the State budget when funding from fees charged for the use of water and the contributions of members of members of the shaft unions may fail to meet current flood protection needs? And third question: In what time horizon is it planned to include the members of the voivodship management board of melioration and water equipment carrying out tasks entrusted to the marshals of voivodships in newly created structures of the State Water Farm of Poland and on what terms will their property be acquired in the form of buildings and real estate? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u260	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u261	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! My question concerns the consequences of the proposed solutions for Polish energy. We know that energy consumes a lot of water. These indicators in our country are among the highest in the world, the highest in Europe, mainly because coal is the basic fuel we consume. It starts with the coal rinsing, ends with the cooling of the power blocks. What will be the consequences of rising prices for energy? How will this translate into electricity prices for the population, for companies, for industry? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u262	Thank you. The question will be asked by Wojciech Murdzek, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u263	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Question: "Are you familiar with the proposals to set up water basin management and water surveillance?" How will these decisions take place and will this ensure effective management of water resources? The existing departments of the management of drainage and water equipment are sometimes large groups of workers who do their job well with, unfortunately, very limited resources. How will employee decisions be taken to preserve this management efficiency? Second issue: Management Boards related to specific water catchment areas create a transparent organisational scheme. From these considerations, about which information comes to us, there is a danger of such artificial joining of individual water catchment areas or the lack of management at water catchments sometimes two rivers and moving a little to another remote area. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u264	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mrs Dorota Sunday, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u265	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Two hours ago, Minister, we met in the column room at the committee meeting. Hence my question, perhaps not specifically, but more specifically, whether you will fight what you assume, i.e. the division of water surveillance between the Minister for Maritime Affairs and yourself, which was expressed during the committee meeting that took place. Will you continue to rely on the fact that you are fighting against the small amount of water and the drought that is coming - we all know that it is coming, especially agriculture - to fight for the Minister of Maritime Affairs not to take away the subsidies, not to take away the water and environmental compensation of carp producers? This question is also addressed to Mr Biernat of Zator. We're from this area. There is a huge Karpia Valley, where great Polish carp is produced. If these people lose their water and environmental subsidies, [[♪ The bell ♪]] they won't be able to do their business. Will you fight for it?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u266	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Marek Owa, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u267	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In 2014, there was a change of Water Law which enabled the construction of bicycle paths on the crowns of shafts. I'll say, for example, which I know well. In the Lesser Poland Voivodship we launched such a large investment program. It is about building 700 km of bicycle roads on the shafts of Vistula, Dunajec, Raby, Skawa and Poprad. This project is largely advanced, the whole route is built from the border of the Silesian Voivodeship to the border of the Świętokrzyskie Voivodship. Minister, according to the law, the Marshals of the voivodships will be deprived of influence on the infrastructure they financed 100%. You will not only take over shafts that protect against flooding, but also take over road infrastructure, bike paths, which are a good tourist offer. In the framework of this project, which you are presenting here today as regards the Polish Waters, did you foresee measures to maintain this infrastructure? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How will you develop this network of bicycle roads in Poland? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u268	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u269	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, don't you think it would be more difficult from the distance to cooperate and involve municipalities in co-financing certain investment projects, or regionally to set water prices for different purposes and for different actors, that centralisation is a backward action? Minister, the bill, which has about 800 pages, does not take into account the time factor needed to create an entity with such a broad spectrum of tasks as the National Water Farm of Poland. As of the date of entry into force of the Act, you plan to create an entity without a detailed definition of the organisational, staffing or relatively structure. The project assumes a very short period of time in terms of proxy. Minister, melioration in the country requires supervision. Will the new Water Law ensure that? After reading what I read, I don't think so. Here's another thing. Change of law means a rise in water prices for all, although at different altitudes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What is the global figure? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u270	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Already in the explanatory memorandum, you point out that there is no funding in the budget in terms of water financing, hence the Polish Water Company will be financed from increased fees. That's lying to what you said, that the water charges won't be raised. In addition, this law causes excessive complications in terms of the construction and construction of bathing sites and introduces further charges for the use of infrastructure by lakes in favour of the tourism industry. Please tell me if there have been studies on the impact of this law on the development of the tourism industry. Another question. You're removing water law permits that were under the authority of the old man and the marshal. What about the staff of these offices? Are you expecting them to be employed in a new organisation, a new water company? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u272	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Bogdan Rzoniec, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u273	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Scientists say the next world war can unfortunately be about water. It's not about gold, it's not about oil, it's not about gas, it's about water. [[The 21st century]] 21st century, yes. Hence my question: What supply of drinking water do we have today? What investments, Minister, could be prepared to increase the reserve of drinking water for Polish residents? That's the key issue. Is there, for example, one of these investments? - Myscow? Are there any other investments? Does the Ministry of Water Management remember, in any case, this problem regarding the drinking water reservoir? This is a very important issue in Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u274	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Leszek... Excuse me, Mr Kazimierz Plocke, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u275	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to make a request for users of fishing circuits. Therefore, Minister, I have considerable doubts. Firstly, will the existing lease agreements for fishing circuits be maintained by users, or will there be new competition procedures for new contracts? Secondly, I would like to know whether there will be a diode in the case of fishing circuits, as has been the case so far, i.e. on the one hand, the Minister of Maritime Affairs will be affected by the users of fishing circuits and on the other hand, the Minister of the Environment, whether the fishing circuits will be transferred to the Minister of Maritime Affairs. Finally, the third issue concerning water charges for carp farmers and trout. Have negotiations with the environment been completed? What proposals on water charges have been adopted for further legislative work? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u276	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Leszek Galemba, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u277	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, why we should introduce the so-called. reimbursement of water services costs and how is this done? And second question: Why doesn't the new Water Law introduce a water price regulator? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u278	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u279	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Proper management of water resources is now crucial for agriculture as well as for many sectors of the Polish economy. However, it should be noted that an increase in the fees for the use of water resources will ultimately affect all citizens who will pay for it either in products or in services. I would like to ask you a question about the percentage increase in costs for producers of particular agricultural production units and individual agri-food industries. If the Minister is currently unable to answer this question in detail, I kindly ask for a written reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u280	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Małgorzata Golińska, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u281	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In my district already today, inhabitants of many municipalities are charged huge fees for water and sewage. Instead of investing millions of zlotys, local governments provide water subsidies. Does the Ministry see this problem of residents and municipalities? Is it true that the implementation of the new Water Law will result in an increase in household charges of tens of PLN? The second question concerns anglers and self-governments who report that today's legal situation is bad water surveillance and overfishing, lack of stocking. Question: "Will the new rules allow local governments to be given first, without competition, responsibility for lakes?" Is it true that in the Water Law project of the previous PO-PSL government there were provisions that provided for the possibility of sale or privatisation of the State Treasury assets? [[It wasn't.]] Are there such records in the new project? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u282	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Anna April, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u283	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The new law provides for the establishment of the State Water Farm in Poland in place of today's 25 central and voivodship institutions. Why should Polish waters be a state legal person and what will happen to employees of existing institutions operating in the area of water management? That's my first question. The second is: Minister, the new regulation is implementing EU directives. Please tell me how many of these directives have a reference in the new law, because, as far as I know, it is practically 10, i.e. this new law introduces and implements very important directives, which we as a country in the European Union simply need to implement. You can't have a cookie and eat a cookie like the opposition does, accusing us of introducing a new bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u284	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u285	We are in the European Union and we need to adapt our law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u286	The question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u287	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It should have been assumed that the new Water Law would take into account the conclusions of the 2015 drought. These proposals included the need to introduce micro-retency programmes - even initiatives such as to introduce such programmes - as actions in specific meliorations. I didn't find any microretency or microretency programs in the project, but perhaps other solutions allow it. Here is the question: Do you want to take responsibility for water, starting with the drainage ditch, guarantee that we will remove the barriers to microretency? These included the need to obtain a water law permit, which required a water law operation. And further: Wouldn't it be worth predicting that microretency programmes should be included in plans to counter droughts in water regions? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u288	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Piotr Polak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u289	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we are discussing an important topic: the new Water Law, regulations on water management in our homeland. It is known that drinking water is generally lacking in Poland. I would like to ask you a question as a farmer and a member of the Parliament's agricultural committee. We know that Polish agriculture, especially in certain sectors, represents a very high level. Unfortunately, it is also based on water management, irrigation of crops, orchards. As there are proposed rates of irrigation charges, will we not be competitive with other farmers, farmers in other countries? In Germany, as far as I know, the rate for irrigation, for 1 m3 is probably 1 gr. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u290	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u291	We're offering 15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u292	The question is asked by Mr Józef Lassot, the Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u293	Have these topics been consulted with agricultural unions and agricultural chambers? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u294	Mr Lassota.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u295	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The fact that there is a need for a new Water Law is, of course, not subject to the issue. Of course, right now it's too late to talk seriously, because there's very little time, but I have a question. I would like to raise a point that concerns me. After all, for 30 years everyone, Polish society, has been trying to decentralize the country. The previous period has already shown that centralization of the state leads to economic, social and economic disaster. Meanwhile, in every project that presents Law and Justice, we return to this centralization of the state. Of course, from the minister's point of view, I understand, the minister is infallible. Therefore, it is difficult to expect otherwise. But I would like to address your Members, ladies and gentlemen from the Law and Justice. Don't you see the danger? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What are you getting at? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u296	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Barbara Bubula, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u297	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Does this bill provide for increased control over the costs of water and sewage companies, especially in large cities? Is it envisaged to do an audit on current prices for water and sewage, especially in the largest urban centres: Krakow, Katowice, Wrocław, Warsaw or Gdańsk? Why am I asking this? That is because, in my opinion, it is possible not only not to increase the price of water for consumers but even to reduce it if there were appropriate control mechanisms. At present, local councillors do not have such instruments as to check whether the costs of water and sewage companies are not covered by unjustified expenses, which are then passed on to the residents in terms of water charges. I wouldn't want the lack of such a tool to cause the present law to give title to [[♪ The bell ♪]] Some...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u298	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u299	...the increase, but it will not result in proper control in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u300	The question is asked by Radosław Lubczyk, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u301	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister, Polish waters will employ several thousand employees. From the information I have, and which each of us can search on the Internet, it appears that on 5 May 2016, the Minister of the Environment concluded an agreement whereby all employees of the RZGW had to receive increases from 1 January 2017 amounting to PLN 850 gross per job, Art. 4 agreements. The issue of wage increases has not yet been regulated. The employees of individual RZGW called on their directors to comply with the announcements of increases, otherwise threatening to enter into a collective dispute. I would like to ask the Minister: Have you secured the same amount of funds? will you comply with those commitments adopted on 5 May 2016? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u302	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u303	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The fact that we have little water and we should save it is undisputed truth. Raising water charges in a sense is indeed able to make it more cost-effective, but these increases should be as rational as possible. On the other hand, in the case of beverage production, this increase is 600%. I talked to mineral water producers who say that if these solutions actually enter into force and these new rates will be so high, they will not be able to pay for the production of these beverages in Poland. They are about to move this production abroad, because most of these wells on the Polish side are located in the mountains, so they will move the production to the Slovak side and will bring the finished product. Is it a good thing that such decisions are made, which can to a large extent hit companies operating in Poland and paying taxes here? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u304	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club. You don't have an MP? [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: I am, I am.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u305	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There is no denying that this is a very important law that we are waiting for and for which the European Union is also waiting for, but there is no denying that it is a law that generates a number of doubts in our country's citizens. Numerous letters are delivered to the parliamentary offices, e.g. by representatives of water pipelines, companies or power plants in view of the problem of increasing the rates of water collection charges. I would like to hear from the Minister - because I have read, you assure me that there will not be much increase in water prices - that the Minister will confirm that the increase in water collection fees will be 7 or even 10 times. As you can see, how this will affect the competitiveness of Polish companies in the international arena, what these growths really result from and what... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u306	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u307	...this extra money is going to be spent? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u308	The question is asked by Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u309	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Chapter 4 of the draft Water Law Act proposes to recognise the entire area of Poland as an area particularly exposed to nitrogen leakage from agricultural sources. This involves imposing new obligations and restrictions on agricultural production on all commodity holdings, including: restrictions on the use of fertilisers, the need to increase manure and tanks, and thus increase costs on the part of farmers. I therefore have a question to ask the Minister: Is it planned to launch a support scheme for farmers who will be obliged under the law to adapt their farms to the new requirements? Is there a plan to introduce subsidies, e.g. for the construction or expansion of manure plates? Is it planned to organise training during which knowledge of the new requirements will be passed on to farmers? In addition, what measures will the Ministry take and what further measures will it intend to take to ensure the cleanliness of the Baltic Sea, in addition to the extension of the OSN areas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u310	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Mariusz Gajda will now speak to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There was a lot of questions, so I don't know if I'll be here in such a short time to address everyone.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u312	Minister, you can always answer in writing. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Gajda: At first, I wanted to say one thing. I'm sorry it's political. I tried not to speak politically about the Water Law, but you are indeed a total opposition. Totally. Water law, which is to secure and financial resources - you know perfectly well - and the safety of Poles and Poles for many years, you simply reject. Mr Gawłowski, former Minister, sympathizes with me. Let him worry about himself. I apologize for the way I speak, but I do not need Mr Gawłowski's sympathy. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to say that Mr Gawłowski and Mrs Pasławska have not read this draft law exactly. You're talking about tariffs, the tariff regulator. There is no tariff regulator in this project, he will only be in the next project on collective water supply. You only base your knowledge on the media. [[Applause]] Either you have messages from six months ago, from a year ago, or from media that are unfavorable. There will be no rise in water prices at the moment. The stakes that are in the bill... If you had read both parts thoroughly in the Seym printing, you would have noticed that there is a draft regulation and that there is no increase in the fees for water in this draft regulation. [[Member Paulin Hennig-Kloska: To the collection of water.]] There's no water collection and no waste water discharge. At the moment, the maximum stake - what I said, maybe not all heard - in Environmental Protection Law is 4 PLN. You could say as much as 4 zlotys. But there's a regulation for that, that's what regulations are for. Excuse me, there are even words that the Prime Minister is lying... How can you say that the Prime Minister is lying that there will be no water raises? The Prime Minister doesn't lie, and neither do we. Unfortunately, you didn't take it seriously, you did it politically. Besides, Mr Gawłowski once said that water is not political, but it turns out it is. You can make a political problem out of anything. Total opposition indeed. I will try briefly to answer some questions, the rest, if you don't mind, I will answer in writing. I just wanted to get back to this project. Perhaps Mr Gawłowski is saying this out of jealousy, because for eight years he could not prepare his project and little of it, this project... One of the questions was whether there was a possibility of privatisation. Yes, there was the possibility of privatising the State Treasury's assets, although not just water, but all water equipment, and little was prepared for this. [[Exactly.]] I had news from the field that merchants had already arrived to watch all kinds of objects. [[Applause]] This was pointed out by the current Mr Szczerski, then Mr Szczerski. I wanted to say this: It's supposed to be a strong state unit, and it's not true that it's going to be centralized... It is not true what you said in turn that everything will take place in Warsaw. In Ostróda he will be in Ostród, in Mrągów he will be in Mrągów. There will be appropriate units, water surveillance, water basin management, which will deal with local affairs in a clear way. No one will have to go to Warsaw. Ladies and gentlemen, if you don't understand this, I'm sorry, I don't think you understand anything. [[But the budget, the budget.]] Now, once again, I would like to stress: There will be no increase in fees. Water and sewage undertakings and the Water and Water Chamber Polish people apparently intend to make it a perfect excuse, because I wanted to say one more thing, that next year there are local elections and everyone knows it. I've already had signals from a few people that the presidents or mayors are saying, "We need so much next year." And so much money for the election campaign from their plumbing and plumbing companies. [[Applause]] And that's just an excuse to increase prices. We won't allow it to increase. As for the regulator, we are actually working on this and, as one of the ladies or Members has said, these prices should often simply be reduced. [[Applause]] Will this result in a reduction in the competence of municipal, district and voivodship authorities? I wanted to remind you one thing that these local governments were doing government tasks, just as the government's job is to issue water law permits, just as it was the government's job to keep equipment, so-called. basic meliorations, i.e. generally shafts. The Member was worried about cycling paths here. The Marshals will continue to be able to build and use bike paths. It is not that if it is owned by the Treasury, it cannot be used. Each citizen can use by agreement and the same local authorities by agreement with the Polish Waters will be able to manage in their waters. It's not like that at all. Back to that Water Law, there were two water basin managements: Vistula and Oder. It's a beautiful thing, but it only covered the main rivers, and all the others to the local governments, to the poor, and let them keep it... If you want to see local governments that they're going to keep all this stuff without money at their own expense, then go ahead, but I know you don't want it. Next question on the fees: Will the villagers pay the rain levy for each roof and yard? No, it will be only charges for large storage sites, parking lots at hypermarkets with an area of more than 3.5 thousand. m? Next question: Will the new law not limit the development of inland waterways? It will not limit, and it is not, as Mr Gawłowski said, that this is not in line with the Water Framework Directive. Water roads on rivers can exist, just as there can be a water power plant, private, energy companies. The firewall in Solin is owned by energy companies. All of these entities can only function, as the Water Framework Directive says, they cannot issue water law permits. Neither the energy company nor shipping will issue water permits, it simply uses part of the water. Why are underground waters subject to the Water Law Act, not the Geological and Mining Law Act? This is the requirement of the Water Framework Directive, but this is also a logic, the logic of which is that groundwater and surface water are linked. I mentioned earlier that about half of the water flowing in the rivers came from groundwater and about half directly from precipitation. How will cooperation between Polish Vodka and local governments, national parks, forests look like? I already told you, they're just gonna sign agreements. How can we reconcile the implementation of the Water Framework Directive, which sets environmental objectives, with the development of the country and are there appropriate provisions? This is, ladies and gentlemen, a very big problem. The Water Framework Directive itself was established in the countries of the old Union when most waters were already degraded. We have a different situation, we are developing, and that is why we have adopted certain mechanisms that will allow us to invest at the same time in order to achieve environmental goals. One of you or one of the ladies, I think Mrs Pasławska was talking about meters, about cost increases. Once again, there will be no increase in costs. Similarly for bottled waters there will be no increase in costs. At the moment, bottled water is paid for by us in the round of approx. 10 gr per 1000 l. In the Czech Republic they pay 1 PLN, in Slovakia they also pay nearly 1 PLN. Will they go to Slovakia and to the Czech Republic if they continue to pay 10 gr? I don't think so. I think they can count. Now for the bathroom question. Indeed, bathing laws are very bureaucratic, very complicated. This is the result of the Framework Directive... Not from the Water Framework Directive, but from the EU Bathing Directive, but there is a mechanism here that municipalities will be able to designate the so-called. temporary accessible, customary bathing places to avoid these bureaucratic records. However, it must be acknowledged that these EU provisions ensure that these bathing areas are genuinely clean, safe and well-guarded. HRs of melioration boards. You're so worried about those melioration boards. Read the Water Law, study. Art. 538 speaks of the management of the melioration boards, the staff of the ancients, and the staff of the marshals. We'd be happy to accept them. There was a question about the watershed management. We make them mainly so that on the one hand there is a hydrographic network, but also so that as many employees of the melioration boards can cover this location, e.g. We predict that the board will be in Radom, where there is a very good branch of the management board of melioration, we predict, among others. in Bydgoszcz, where there will even be two water catchments, because it is on the border of the water department. So that we take this very seriously. We don't want to lose those professionals. I hope they come to us. The average wage - one of the Members asked this too - is currently 3350 PLN in RZGW. We want this average wage to be 4200 PLN gross for all employees. This purpose is also to be served by the Water Law. Cases related to fees for fish farming. Those fees were negotiated. We actually had negotiations, like, two months. I negotiated both with the so-called. trout, as well as so-called trout. carpenters. These are fees which the European Union requires at a symbolic level, approx. PLN 4,6 per year for 1 ha of carp pond. So that these are very symbolic charges. As to Mrs Niedziela's question, of course we support aquaculture, but these are decisions taken by the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. Yeah, there's still... I'm sorry, but there were a lot of questions, and I didn't have time to write them all down. I can see that I still have a question here: Is it true that Poland has already been reprimanded for incomplete implementation of European law? Yeah, that's true. We have two major cases. Some of the parliamentary initiatives have already cleaned up, while the first issue is, of course, the Nitrate Directive, the 2014 ECJ judgment. We're fixing this. As for this nitrate directive, this is what I said, please read into the project as well. You should have adopted some kind of system. We have adopted such a system that there is one programme per country, but under 10 hectares of agricultural holdings are excluded from this scheme, or those with less than 10 large units of conversion, or 10 cows, have a number of pigs, that counts accordingly. Of course, there will be training. They will also be for individual larger farms, but perhaps economically worse standing, as so far there are some forms of support, various kinds of programs. And now: Is it true that there is a deadline? Unfortunately, thanks to the proposal of the total opposition, we cannot work from tomorrow in committee or subcommittees, we must wait two weeks for the vote. Only then will we be able to work. Two weeks, which means we're gonna be delayed again. It is unlikely, especially with opposition, which will be procedurally blocking this... [[And how much did you keep in this project?]] You guys were holding -- I'm sorry to answer, but I shouldn't have -- eight years and it didn't work out. So let's stop discussing. [[Applause]] [[But how much did you hold up your project?]] At your place for eight years, I didn't... [[We're talking about this project.]] Exactly. Okay, don't interrupt, I'm sorry. [[You have to be honest.]] So that, in terms of deadlines, the date of entry into force on 1 July is unlikely, and unfortunately this is a date negotiated by us in the European Commission, I myself went there myself. So that if it is not at that time, if we do not have ex ante conditions met, it will simply be your fault, your next action: the worse, the better. That's the way it is, unfortunately. And the question is, there were a lot of questions here, like I said, I think... If any of your fellow Members are unsatisfied, I will answer all the questions in writing in accordance with the parliamentary transcript. If you don't mind, Marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[I'm unsatisfied. Please respond in writing.]] Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. There were requests for rejection in the discussion and for a different referral of the draft law. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft law amending the Law on the legal protection of plant varieties (prints 1323 and 1574). I ask Mr Robert Telus to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u313	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On 21 February 2017, the Marshal of the Sejm issued the printing number of the Act amending the Law on the legal protection of plant varieties and sent it to the Committee on Agriculture for the first reading by the Committee on Agriculture. The first reading took place yesterday and the committee supported by a majority... the first reading and supported the law with one amendment, which was tabled, and sent it to the High House for a second reading. In short, the proposed amendments to the Act result from the need to ensure that new solutions can be applied in relation to breeders, breeders' organisations and farmers' land holders and farmers' organisations. First of all, the amendment to the Act is at the request of farmers and applies to fees. So far, farmers buying new plant varieties pay a higher price, and then each year, if they want to apply this variety to themselves, sow, sow, plant, they also have to pay this fee. And farmers believe that this is unfair and there is a need for such regulation to exempt the farmer from these later charges in the following years. Of course, we are very aware that we must support breeders of new varieties, especially Polish breeders of Polish varieties, because this is very important for Polish agriculture, so that we have such varieties that fit our climatic conditions, and that is why there is a need to support the Polish variety. But we need to find a system that on the one hand will support this Polish variety and breeders of Polish varieties, but on the other hand it will not rely only on farmers' fees, because it is not entirely fair. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u314	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Robert Telus will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, unless he has already said all he needs to say on this matter. Mr?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u315	Mr. Marshal, all I can say is that the Law and Justice Club is in favour of amending this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u316	Thank you very much. Mr Kucharski will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u317	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is my pleasure to present the position of the Civic Platform Club. Work on amending the Law on the legal protection of plant varieties should primarily take into account the needs of the parties in its records, respond to the expectations of the change and recognise the risks. The proposed changes are dictated by the need to simplify the current solutions, in particular the provision of a law giving breeders or breeders' organisations the right to check the compliance of information obtained on the marketing of seed with the facts. The National Council of Agricultural Chambers proposed the possibility of collecting licence fees once upon purchase of certified seed also found its place in the draft law. However, this is one possibility and does not guarantee that it will be applied by breeders. The Polish Seed Chamber draws attention to the use and very high costs incurred by breeders in the research work on new varieties, which do not always end in obtaining varieties with planned parameters. The reimbursement of inputs and further studies are possible through the collection of licence fees and charges on own reproductions. Other risks are the lack of supervision of seed, which can lead to the spread of so-called. the grey zone, i.e. increasing the share of unqualified seeds at the expense of certified seeds. The threat of equally important, and perhaps not perceived, is the possibility of influxing GMOs into Poland through illegal marketing of seeds. A well-designed law on the legal protection of plant varieties is an appropriate tool to improve the situation on the Polish seed market. The market sealing in conjunction with actions to stimulate the exchange of seeds by Polish farmers - through education and aid schemes - will have a positive impact on the economics of Polish farms, and the Polish plant breeding will provide an additional impetus for further development and will contribute to the creation of biological progress. Unfortunately, the proposed draft amendments to the Act do not meet the expectations of farmers and farmers. The proposed changes do not introduce systemic or comprehensive solutions. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club shall abstain from voting on the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u318	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko will speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u319	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I am pleased to present my position on the government proposal for a law amending the Law on the legal protection of plant varieties. I regret to say that the regulations proposed in the draft law will not bring about a good change in the solution to the key problem of plant production, which is a dramatically low level of seed exchange. The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development and the National Council of Agricultural Chambers, instead of worrying about low biological progress, which is crucial for farmers, focus on relations between farmers and farmers. These relations are not the best ones today, but in order to remedy the situation, we need a discussion, a discussion, not covering up the problem that the Ministry is currently dealing with. The common goal, which should bring together farmers and breeders, is strong, competitive Polish agriculture. Farming progress and wide access to new plant varieties, which make it possible to improve and produce stability, increase resistance to diseases, are key to achieving this objective, which clearly translates into farmers' income. According to studies already carried out in the 1990s, the share of biological progress in production is more than 50%, whereas fertilization is only 20% and protection is 15%. . The Ministry of Agriculture itself considered that the reason for the low level of seed exchange in Poland is high fees for the use of material from a set of protected varieties. The Ministry cites examples of other countries, including Italy, where 85% the arable land area shall be sown annually with certified seed. In Poland it is only 18%. The solutions proposed in the Act will contribute to the decline in seed exchange as well as to the liquidation of Polish breeding. Therefore, the lack of comprehensive solutions related to seed breeding and replacement is a scandal. At this point, I would like to remind you of the recent situation in the case of SHiUZ. Polish breeders lost real control of the largest genetic company in the country. Today, SHiUZ is owned by French farmers, French farmers, and no one should be surprised if the station is primarily concerned with the interests of French farmers, not Polish farmers, who are a great competition for the French. The privatisation of SHiUZ is now an example of the inability of a country that cannot take care of the interests of its farmers. Therefore, we should make any changes in the area of seeding with exceptional caution, because this industry is already in foreign hands. Making plant production dependent on the size of crops, quality of cereals on foreign companies poses huge risks to our agriculture, exposes farmers to increase production costs and thus to the loss of competitiveness by Polish farms. Above all, however, this poses a threat to the food security of Poland. I believe that the solution is universality and at the same time very low level of fees. In conclusion, high fees, low level of breeding progress, a decrease in the profitability of farms and a reduction in the investment capacity of breeders will lead to the collapse of Polish breeding and then agriculture. Therefore, considering the government project to be highly harmful, I am requesting that the project be rejected in its entirety. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u320	Thank you very much. Ms Ewa Lieder will now speak on behalf of the club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u321	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The changes proposed in the government project have both positive and negative sides. It is positive that it reduces red tape and deregulation, gives more freedom to individual agreements between plant variety owners and farmers, which is well received by farmers. At the same time, full protection of plant variety rights in intellectual property remains. The breeder will be able to decide to make the protected varieties of his choice available without levying the levy on his own reproductions during the specified period, e.g. for marketing reasons. However, it is not entirely due to the project on which it can decide and when, there are no related guidelines, so everything depends on the interests and goodwill of the breeder. There are also other doubts that the Polish Seed Chamber draws attention to. In Poland, the exchange of seed varieties oscillates at 18% and this is a disproportionately low level compared to other countries of the European Union. The activity targeted at growing new plant varieties is an unpredictable process, which involves a high risk borne by breeders. Farming progress takes time and effort, but results in immunity and high yield quality. Licence fees and own reproduction fees shall ensure reimbursement of the costs required by the cultivation of new varieties. They also guarantee investment in innovation and market competitiveness, especially in the face of the advantage of foreign companies. It is not that breeding centres are privileged with farmers, but we must remember their important role for the development of Polish plant breeding. The agricultural derogation fees relate to agricultural land from 25 ha above, which is only about 7% in Poland. At this stage, it is possible to develop solutions that will benefit farmers and breeders. The replacement of plant varieties must be profitable for farmers, and the more often farmers will exchange varieties, the more dynamic and efficient the machine of Polish plant breeding will function. Both parties agree that the increase in fees cannot occur because this results in a decrease in the exchange of qualifications, without benefit to either party. It is important for this system to work so as to encourage farmers to exchange seed frequently and not to cause farmers to be dragged through courts, not to do so by breeding progress. It is also important for agriculture to develop Polish plant breeding because it gives wide access to new varieties not only for large commodity holdings, but also for all farms, including small ones. seed control protects against excessive spread of unqualified seeds. The restriction of controls may affect the activities of plant-producing companies and indirectly risks the influx of illegal GMOs. We believe that further work is needed on the project and on the issues that are at issue, and that is why the Modern Posel Club will vote in favour of sending the project to the committee in order to develop a compromise and concerted position that benefits both plant farmers and farmers. If we could wait so long for changes to the Nature Conservation Act, although trees were mass-cut every day, we can also wait for these changes to be made so that the development of Polish plant breeding is not threatened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u322	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Sawicki will now speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u323	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, the problem related to the Law on the legal protection of plant varieties is very deep and mainly concerns the maintenance of the progress of breeding and breeding of Polish varieties in Poland. Besides, we remember that a few years ago there were huge frostings of wheat and especially those who benefited from foreign varieties, then they suffered the greatest losses. So finding a wise, healthy compromise is not easy, because, on the one hand, it is necessary to find the means for farming to be financed and to grow, and on the other hand, we know that farmers are always, when we have a situation of raising or paying any fees, unhappy and looking for other solutions. Let me remind you that with this old solution only 7% farmers paid these fees relating to the use of their own propagating material, on holdings up to 25 hectares of cultivation were exempt, in the case of potatoes, up to 10 hectares, including, as I recall, 17 plant species. So it was not a common issue, yet in the social sense, in the sense of trade union organisations, it was quite burdensome. To be honest, these changes that are proposed are compromises, but as far as this friendly negotiation mechanism can be applied in practice, time will show and we will have to look at it, perhaps in the future it will still change that. It is also important to apply in general the issue of the replacement, the renewal of seed, which unfortunately in Poland has been seriously failing for years. Here, perhaps, it would be worth considering whether the increase for farmers to finance the replacement of seed and, in the case of the replacement of seed, a single fee for breeders, what agricultural chambers propose... If this solution from the point of view of European law and the solutions of the Ministry of Finance and Agriculture would be applicable, it would probably be the most rational. So my club doesn't comment on this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u324	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan forwarded her speech to the minutes. So I'm opening up a list of questions now. Four Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of people who've been saved for questions. I'm setting the question time - 1 minute. She is the first to ask the question of Mrs Anna Cicholska, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u325	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! In connection with the draft law amending the Law on the legal protection of plant varieties, I have to ask the Minister: How is this problem resolved in other countries of the European Union? Has the draft law been consulted with farmers' organisations? If so, have - and what - farmers' demands been included in the proposed law? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u326	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u327	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Progress in plant breeding, which is visible in the case of new varieties, better, better adapted to our climatic conditions, giving a larger, more stable and better quality yield, is obvious. This is one of the basic ways of improving productivity in Polish agriculture. We have a well-developed plant farm. Many Polish seed companies lead in their production categories in Europe. We have a unique system for verifying research results through COBOR and post-registration and agricultural testing. It seems that we have all the arguments for this system to function well, and at the same time there are voices, which also here, in this Chamber, fell, that there is little interest of farmers in the replacement of seed. How does the Ministry generally assess this situation? What action is it going to take? [[♪ The bell ♪]] take more farmers...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u328	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u329	...to benefit from this Polish achievement, the achievements of the Polish...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u330	The question you are asking is...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u331	...farming plants? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u332	... Jarosław Sachajko, club Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u333	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Farming progress is crucial for the Polish farmer. The optimal variety is the best and at the same time the cheapest factor in production reducing the production costs incurred by the farmer. Due to the cancellation of the derogation fee, breeders will transfer their costs to certified seed. My question concerns the Ministry's estimates of the percentage increase in the price of certified seed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u334	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u335	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear Members, The crop yield is influenced by many factors: temperature, and precipitation, but above all by the quality of seeds and their genetic level, yield potential, frost resistance. In Poland, breeding is limping, losing to foreign farms, which do not necessarily prove... they sell us good seeds. Yes, in terms of yielding, it is most certainly good, but already with this frostproofness it is worse, which results in frosting. I believe that these solutions, which are in our law, including the draft law, are inadequate, do not yet properly strengthen breeding. I heard voices at the end and during the committee's work showing the bitterness of Polish breeders. They expect other financial solutions. Do you not think that it is necessary to strengthen not only breeding, but also the entire purchase by farmers of seeds from Poland [[♪ The bell ♪]] breeding, not from abroad? There's money for that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u336	Thank you very much, thank you. The question is asked by Marek Sawicki, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u337	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As I mentioned in my speech, only 7% farmers pay these reproduction, reproduction fees. What is the percentage of revenue from the levying of these charges at all, because perhaps the administration is actually more costly than the revenue itself which is due to it? That's one question. The question is, is there really any possibility of increasing seed subsidies for farmers benefiting from this first, elite exchange? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u338	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed... I mean, I am, of course, closing the discussion at this level - the speeches of Members. The Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Minister Ewa Lech, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u339	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, please. I am answering a few questions that you have put here, perhaps not necessarily one at a time, but I would like to try to answer all of them. There was a discussion at the Committee on Agriculture and we stressed with all our power that this law contains such very, very compromise provisions, because the problem that we are trying to solve is a problem that has not been solved for many years. It wasn't like that... ten years ago, this problem came up, and let's just say there's some sort of struggle about farmers, farmers. Farmers are not willing to pay - all farmers, even small farmers, who are exempt and even small farmers, are willing to pay their own multiplication fees. Besides, like Minister Sawicki said, you all know that these fees are only actually 7%. The farmers, that's about 100,000. agricultural producers, so that in theory this should not be a big problem. I answer the questions of Minister Sawicki, what are the amounts. That's the amount. Three, four million, or about 10%. all licence fees, i.e., it would seem that this is not an excessive amount, but it actually points to the fact that breeding companies, breeders are not satisfied with this fact. I would like to stress once again that these solutions adopted by the Act are compromise solutions. Over the past years, these problems have not been resolved, and we have begun to work on this law because farmers have simply been sued by seed agencies when they have not provided information about the sown area, the use of this material from their own reproductions. There's been a lot of misunderstandings here. We wanted to resolve these conflicts and it seems to us that this is the best solution we can offer right now, and very compromise. There have been numerous meetings with breeders, breeding companies with national agricultural chambers and agreements have not taken place. [[Right.]] Everyone had their position and with these positions the parties remained. Questions, maybe one at a time. Mrs Cicholska asked how this problem is solved in other countries. So this is solved in different ways, e.g. in Italy, due to the high level of seed exchange, it appears that it is a derogation from the levying of such fees. In Finland, on the other hand, there is a special agency that provides information on the area of sowing, and this is kind of a top-down charge, these fees. It's different in different countries. In our country, the postulates went in this direction, e.g. in the Polish Autumn Chamber, in order to collect seed from the moment of purchase - there were several proposals - to charge for own reproductions, or to write off agricultural taxes or contributions to chambers. Of course, the agricultural chambers didn't agree to this. I now want to answer Mr Aichler's question. If he's walking around here... Indeed, the solution that is contained in the Act will in some way affect the activities of breeding companies. I would like to say, however, that the Ministry of Agriculture, the Minister of Agriculture, supports and will support Polish plant breeding, for example by financing activities for Polish breeding in the form of basic research, which are financed at the level of 17 million a year, in the form of a multiannual programme of the Plant Breeding and Acclimatization Institute, where 9 million a year is transferred. Of course, these are subsidies for eligible material. Last one spent last year was 90 million. Of course, in the construction of the budget for the following year, we will be wondering what the possibilities will be in this regard. Of course, the strategy for responsible development will now be implemented, which includes a plant-breeding support programme in Poland. At the moment, we are working on establishing research priorities and breeding work and on providing adequate resources for this purpose from the National Centre for Research and Development. So that here breeding companies or breeders will not be left to themselves. As for Mr Sachaika's question... It was about prices, I can't remember the prices anymore, aha, how it's gonna affect... [[Growth, price increase.]] ...for price increases. It's hard to tell if it's gonna... Actually, it doesn't change anything. Those who have not paid will not pay, those who have paid will pay, but it will be a very flexible solution. Farmers will be able to conclude contracts and will be able to withdraw from charging, but this will depend on breeding companies. [[Pages.]] I think that's all the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u340	Yes. Thank you very much, Minister. Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ewa Lech: Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you. Would the Member also like to speak? Yes? You're welcome. Rapporteur for the committee, Mr Robert Telus.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u341	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the committee, I would like to thank all the clubs and all the Members who have taken part in this bill. I don't really understand, either, that some clubs were on one side only, they were on the side of farmers, and they weren't on the side of farmers. Here I regret it, because these are two sides of the coin. Of course, Polish breeding is very important. We must compete in this globalisation in the European Union so that ours wins, Polish. There's no question about it. The government and, of course, the Committee on Agriculture know that this Polish breeding is very important. We must take care of Polish breeding, we must take care of our biological material and that is what we must do. But on the other hand, we have farmers. And it can't be as it has been so far that the farmer who bought the certified seed had to pay that racket every year. It wasn't exactly... Especially since from what the Minister said, it doesn't seem like much money. If we're talking about PLN 3 million a year here, it's not big money, and we're making a fuss. One of the farmers in my Opoczyński district, as he found out that we were working on this bill, came to me and said that he hadn't paid for many years, has a case in court at the moment, knows how unfair it is. That is why we need to find a system that will first support this breeding, our Polish, these certified seeds, but on the other hand there will also be no farmers paying this racket. Of course, what Mr Sawicki has proposed to increase, in relation to PLN 3 million, in order to ensure that there is supply, because if we have... that there is demand, because if we have demand, if farmers buy, if more farmers buy, then of course it will be much easier to get even this money, so that this Polish breeding will increase even more so that this Polish breeding will be supported. But there's a need for a good mechanism. We cannot stop just and only on the one that was, the more that we know that farmers and agricultural unions, and agricultural chambers very often reported to us that this is a problem that needs to be solved. This is the first step. I'm not saying he's gonna take care of the problem completely. This is the first step that solves this problem. Let's see how it works. If it works well, it works well, and if it doesn't, then we're gonna fix it so that we can grow... One more sentence, ladies and gentlemen. Maybe I've had a little chat right now, but one more sentence. I believe that in the whole process, agricultural advisory services are not working in the whole system. And if we don't strengthen the farm advisory centers here, if we don't make sure that the agricultural advisor brings this biological progress under the hoard, brings it to the farmer, it's never gonna be fashionable. We need to put this in order to be fashionable. But we need to support agricultural advisory centers, we need to take care of agricultural advisory centers... [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] ...to make them a good centre to be advisors and to go to farmers with this seed, but not only, because with all biological progress. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u342	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u343	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarni wheels, I present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Law on the legal protection of plant varieties. The amendment concerns mainly the regulation of fees related to the use of seed. The solutions contained therein give farmers the freedom to decide whether to make the protected variety available free for their own reproductions for a specified period of time and introduce the possibility of collecting a single levy on own reproductions when buying certified seed. In addition, at the request of the Agricultural Chambers, the obligation whereby holders of agricultural land provided farmers with written information on the use of the harvest material was abolished. Today's project is an attempt to reach a compromise on the new rules for seed making, as the applicants point out, in response to farmers' demands that the current system of charging own reproductions has been extremely burdensome. As was evident from yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, it is essential for our agriculture to find the right solution in this regard. The replacement of seed is an important element of agricultural progress and was also indicated yesterday. Today, a small number of agricultural producers exchange seed. The compromise in this case is therefore definitely needed. However, there are many doubts as to whether the project presented will meet its objectives. Does the bill promote the exchange of seed and encourage whether farmers will be given too much freedom thanks to these regulations? Or are these solutions improving the situation only in the short term, and in the long run they will not pass the test? During the committee's work, it was proposed that the subcommittee set up for this purpose should bend to the proposed solutions. Although this proposal has been rejected, I believe that it is necessary to carry out further consultations and discussions on this project or to prepare a completely new amendment. This is because it is necessary to develop solutions which, as far as possible, will satisfy both sides of the conflict and whose effects will be long-term. Therefore, near Free and Solidarnia will not support this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u344	In the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law in its entirety. I propose that the Sejm do not refer this bill back to the committee. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We will therefore proceed to the vote on this issue in the voting block. I would like to inform you that the planned item 11 of the agenda: The report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law on farmers' cooperatives will not be considered at the current meeting of the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the Law on the special arrangements for preparing for the implementation of investments in flood-proof structures (prints Nos 1495 and 1569). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u345	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft amendment to the Law on specific rules for preparing for the implementation of flood-related investments contained in the parliamentary print project No. 1495 aims to apply flood management solutions to prepare investments in meteorological radars. The data obtained through the network of meteorological radars operated by the State's hydrological and meteorological service serve as a valuable source of information about the intensity of precipitation, which is the cause of local uplifts and submersions, as well as the creation of flood models used to determine and manage the best location of flood structures. The location of the meteorological radar shall be determined primarily by the quantity, quality and representativeness of the measurements carried out by that radar. The quality of the measurement results is influenced by: terrain, presence near trees, water reservoirs, buildings and other terrain obstacles, as measurements for meteorological purposes should be made as close as possible to the ground surface. The range of visibility for the lowest angles of raising the radar antenna is important. There are also important aspects such as the possibility of access, the possibility of connecting to ICT and energy infrastructure. Also an important factor is the incomplete coverage of local spatial planning of the country. All of these factors make the use of a specialty which radically shortens the administrative procedure for obtaining the necessary permits very reasonable in this case. High Izbo! The parliamentary project contained in print No 1495 entered the Sejm on 7 April this year. On 20 April, it was sent to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry for first reading. On 11 May a first reading was held at the meeting of those joint committees, where the draft was sent to the Emergency Sub-Committee. The joint committees adopted the subcommittee report yesterday. Now the report of the joint committees, which I have the honour of presenting to the High House today, is in print No 1569. I move on to the presentation of the detailed solutions contained in this project. Art. 1 contains six changes. Amendment 1 refers to Article. 1 flood management and modifies the substantive scope proposed by the joint committees in the report. Recording, wording of the article. 1 is the following. First of all, the Act sets out specific rules and conditions for the preparation of investments in respect of: (a) flood prevention structures, (b) meteorological radar stations, hereinafter referred to as investments, and, secondly, the competent authorities in the matters referred to in point 1. This provision is the result of the work of the subcommittee and of the adoption of the proposed amendments. Amendment 2 refers to Article. It's a two-professional floodplain. Firstly, it modifies the definition of the investor by introducing the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management - the State Research Institute as one of the entities, and secondly, amending 2. introduces a new definition of meteorological radar stations. Amendment 3 refers to Article. 7 flood management and excludes the possibility of real estate trading covered by the application for an investment authorisation decision also in the case of the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management, as for other investors. Amendment 4 concerns Article. 9 point 5 of the mother's law. Lithium. a contains a provision that the decision to authorise the investment gives the possibility to identify the real estate which is part of the investment necessary for its implementation, owned or used forever by the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management. In turn in lithium. b refers to the real estate necessary for the operation of the investment, e.g. of real estate located in the protection zone which is neither owned nor in the perpetual use of the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management, for which the use of water is permanently restricted. Of course, this permanent limitation of use may in other cases be the basis for real estate owners to demand their redemption. And now, in these regulations that we are dealing with, which we are changing, for the owners of those properties for which the way of use is limited, there is a right to demand their redemption, even when the investor is the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management. This, in turn, concerns the amendment to Article 6. 1. She refers to the records of the article. Article 22 (2) (b) 2 of the mother's laws. High Izbo! Amendment 5 in turn concerns Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the mother's law and refers to the case where the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management is an investor and the investment is carried out on real estate owned by the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management or in its perpetual use and does not need to be taken over by the State Treasury or local government units. And that's all the changes - six - in Article. 1 of the draft law contained in the committee's report. Art. 2 of the draft contains a transitional provision providing that new provisions apply to cases initiated and not completed before the entry into force of the draft in question. Art. 3 provides that the law shall enter into force 14 days after the date of the announcement, i.e. this is the shortest decent of legal reasons for vacatio legis. High Izbo! The total project contained in print No 1569 of the combined infrastructure and environmental committees adopted 29 votes in favour, with one vote against and 11 abstentions. The joint committees in the course of the work on the project rejected two related amendments, amendment 2 and amendment 4 in Article. 1. amendments which go beyond the scope of the submission and concerning the definition of flood-related structures, but have nothing to do with meteorological radars, which are the subject of this amendment. These amendments, at the request of the applicants, are presented by the joint committees as two minority proposals to be voted on together. High Izbo! The public interest is that warning against hazardous atmospheric and hydrological phenomena should be based on reliable data. Our concern for our common security, also for the appropriate level of flood protection, is of the utmost importance, and therefore, on behalf of the Joint Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, I ask that the Act amending the Law on specific rules for preparing for the implementation of the investments in flood prevention structures contained in print No 1569 be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u346	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Barbara Dziuk will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u347	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice, I am speaking on behalf of the Parliamentary draft law amending the Law on specific rules for preparing for the implementation of investments in flood structures. The amendment of the Law of 8 July 2010 on specific rules for preparing for the implementation of flood-related investments aims to introduce the possibility of applying the provisions of this Law also in the preparation of investments in meteorological radars and adds the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management - the State Research Institute to entities which are entitled to be investors. The proposed amendment to the Law on specific rules for preparing for the implementation of flood-related investments will allow: selecting the best location, ensuring administrative procedures as soon as possible, reducing the time taken to implement the investment and providing civil protection opportunities after obtaining financing for the investment, and ensuring the financing of the implementation of the investment according to the planned timetable. Data obtained from the Polish network of meteorological radars operating within the state hydrological and meteorological service are used both as a direct source of information about precipitation intensity and to create flood models. These devices allow accurate monitoring of meteorological situations in order to conduct meteorological, hydrological and hazard recognition in the atmosphere or hydrosphere, and allow measurements to be carried out in the designated area and radar data users are among others. hydrologists, meteorologists and crisis services or Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. In Poland there are eight meteorological radar stations, we need four more - it is proposed on the Holy Mountain of Anna, in north-eastern Poland, in central Poland and in Lublin. The proposed amendments to the Act will allow investment and radar protection to be carried out as soon as possible. High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club has a positive opinion on the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u348	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Sibińska will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u349	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I present the club's opinion on the draft law amending the Law on special rules for preparing for the implementation of investments in flood structures. The draft is presented in print No 1495 and the committee's report in print No 1569. Recognising the need to accelerate the investment process, which will allow the location of meteorological radars in the places where it is needed, as the Civic Platform Club, we will support this project, although we know that it is being processed at the same time - today the process has begun - Water law, where it is also envisaged to consummate the changes that we are making at the moment. But we recognise, as we have been told, that tendering procedures are under way and that these provisions need to be introduced in order to enable these investments to be implemented - we know that there are problems with certain environmental decisions - if this is to serve safety and ensure that these devices monitor the phenomenon so much that we can prevent dangerous elements that we can predict when it comes to flooding. At the same time, I would like to say that, in a similar manner and for similar reasons, we wanted to introduce as a Civic Platform club other elements that could be helpful in the protection of flood-related areas, especially the Oder basin. We wanted to introduce water regulation facilities to protect against flooding along with technologically related facilities and technologically designed areas for such buildings. We also know that tendering procedures are under way and we recognise that this is also acknowledged by the Minister during the work of the subcommittee and committee that there is indeed a need for such regulations. Therefore, we do not understand why we can introduce some elements, we cannot introduce other elements, and the need is similar. We have tabled amendments and these amendments have not been recognised in the work of the subcommittee and committee. That is why we have tabled minority proposals and we will be asking the High House here very much to lean on these minority proposals, because the elements that we propose to introduce also need to be improved in the investment process. As I said, tendering procedures are also under way and this would greatly simplify the use of funds from the World Bank and would certainly improve flood safety. That is why we will remain with this proposal and, as I said at the beginning, we will vote in favour of this project, recognising the need for simplifications where they will improve safety. But I call on the High House to recognise our minority proposals, to vote in favour of them, because the amendment of Water Law, the entry into force of Water Law in this new form, is, as the Minister said, scheduled for next year and the tenders will be held in the autumn. It would be good if those regulations we talked about... [[You delayed your work on the Water Law by filing for rejection at first reading.]] Don't disturb me, Member. I therefore ask the High House to take account of these minority proposals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u350	Mr Sylwester Khrushch, Kukiz Club15, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u351	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on special rules for preparing for the implementation of investments in flood structures. The Polish meteorological radar network, which monitors weather conditions, including precipitation, conducts measurements which are an important source of input data for meteorological and hydrological models. Our system consists of eight radar stations, but this number is insufficient. At least four additional radars are required to achieve full radar coverage. Locations are indicated: Mount Święta Anna, North-East Poland, Central Poland and Lubelszczyzna. The proposed law allows to prepare such desirable and necessary investments, the formation of meteorological radars of the State Hydrological and Metheorological Service, and adds the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management - the State Research Institute to entities which are entitled to be investors within the meaning of this Act. Such situations as we have dealt with so far, ladies and gentlemen, should not take place. Namely, the location of the measuring stations is extremely time-consuming mainly due to lengthy administrative procedures. These are devices that depend on our safety, because they are used both as a direct source of information about the intensity of precipitation, which can cause local submersions or submersions, as well as to create flood models used by institutions making decisions about flood-proof sites. Radars are conducting research within a radius of 200 km. The 10-minute update allows predicting, tracking and forecasting dangerous hydrological and meteorological phenomena with very high accuracy. The Kukiz Club15 supports changes that will lead to the selection of the best substantive location, ensuring the administrative procedure as quickly as possible to obtain the necessary permits, shortening the duration of the investment and providing the possibility of civil protection after obtaining funding for the investment, ensuring the financing of the implementation of the investment according to the planned timetable without the risk of loss of financial assembly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u352	Thank you very much. On behalf of the club, Mr Piotr Misilo will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u353	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Modern Club, I would like to present my position on the Act amending the Law on Special Rules of Preparation for Investment in Flood Structures. The purpose of the amendment of the Law of 8 July 2010 on specific arrangements for preparing for the implementation of investments in flood structures is to introduce the possibility of applying the provisions of that Law also in the preparation of investments in meteorological radars of the State hydrological and meteorological service. The Institute of Meteorology and Water Management - State Research Institute is also added to entities which are entitled to be investors within the meaning of this Act. The proposed amendment to the Law on specific rules for preparing for the implementation of flood-related investments will allow: choosing the best substantive location of meteorological radars of the State hydrological and meteorological service, ensuring as soon as possible the administrative procedure to obtain the necessary permits, shortening the time of implementation of the investment and ensuring the possibility of civil protection after obtaining the financing of the investment, ensuring the financing of the implementation of the investment according to the planned timetable without the risk of loss of financial assembly. The amendment to the article provided for in the draft law. 1 will allow the application of the provisions of the Act in the preparation of investments in meteorological radars of the State hydrological and meteorological service, which constitute construction facilities within the meaning of Article. 3 point 1 of the Act of 1 July 1994. Construction law, which plays a significant role in predicting flooding and early warning of its possible occurrence. As a result of this change, the Article will also be amended. Point 2, which adds the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management - State Research Institute, which serves as a State Meteorological Service, to the catalogue of possible investors subject to the regime of that law. Taking into account the amendments proposed above, adjustments shall also be made in Article. Point 9 (5) (a) A bill. The decision to implement the investment in connection with the inclusion of the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management - the State Research Institute in the catalogue of possible investors provides for the possibility of identifying properties covered by the ownership or perpetual use of the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management - the State Research Institute. The Article shall also be amended. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the Act of 8 July 2010 on specific arrangements for preparing for the implementation of investments in flood-related structures. In cases where the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management - the State Research Institute is an investor, the investment is carried out on the property already owned or covered by the perpetual use of the Institute. It is therefore not necessary to take over such property for the State Treasury or for the local government unit, as reflected in this article. High Izbo! I would like to inform the High House - and the applicants - that the Modern Posel Club will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u354	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski will now speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u355	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Polish People's Party's Parliamentary Club to present an opinion and position on the parliamentary draft law amending the law on special arrangements for the preparation for the implementation of the investment, according to prints No. 1495 and 1569. Both the rapporteur and my previous speakers discussed the objectives of the project, discussed the scope of the project, and discussed and pointed out the actors who will carry out such important projects. There is no doubt that the development of infrastructure, the extension of infrastructure equipment serving the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management, which is primarily used to predict, warn, prepare meteorological forecasts, which are of course used not only in crisis situations, such as flood warnings, forecasting... These devices, radars can also be used to predict future dangers, e.g. Graduate and warn economic operators or the population against them, which is important not only in this area, but also for areas of the economy such as agriculture and sadization. Thus, as a club, we will vote in favour of the mode of work which will lead to the adoption of this bill, because, as we see, here we have discussed and ensured the proper way of acquiring property, taking into account the interest of both the investor and the original owner. There is talk of creating the conditions for all administrative proceedings relating to the preparation or execution of investments and there are clarification of the possibilities for financing as well as the creation of financial assembly. So there are conditions and conditions that give us a real opportunity to plan, prepare and carry out these investments that will serve us all. Only such a request and suggestion that we should certainly benefit from the analysis of the situations that took place and the occurrence of natural disasters such as floods in 1997, 2001, 2007, 2010 and many others when choosing the location. Hence, I think that the location of these radars near the main rivers, such as the Vistula... I do not hide that we would also be very keen on one of these radars to stand in the vicinity of Sandomierz. I think that Mr Marek Kwitek and many farmers and the people of this land would also be very pleased with this. We will be in favour of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u356	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, Mr Ireneusz Oda will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u357	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Circle of the Polish Free and Solidarnia, I present my position on the report of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the Law on specific rules for preparing for the implementation of investments in flood-related structures. The aim of the proposed act is to remove obstacles in the form of administrative procedures for the construction of meteorological radars of the Polish network of POLRAD radars. Data obtained from the POLRAD network is a direct source of information about the intensity of precipitation that can cause local submersions or submersions, and serve to create flood models used in decision-making to locate flood structures also by operators of these structures. Currently in Poland, in order to fully cover the range of meteorological radars, it is necessary to build four more radar stations, which due to the nature of their operation must be located in places with defined geographical and technical parameters. Data collected using POLRAD radar equipment is widely used in meteorology, but a very important part is those concerning flood safety, especially in the case of the most dynamic storm phenomena causing rapid surface water accumulation and the source of local dramas. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It will soon be 20 years since the memorable millennium flood in 1997. There were numerous submersions and local floods caused by a series of meteorological phenomena causing dynamic increases in water levels of small watercourses, but also large rivers such as Odra. The sudden and very intense rainfall was a total surprise for the population living in areas where these phenomena occurred, but even more for the population living in neighbouring areas where there was no rainfall, but there was a devastating flood wave on small and calm watercourses. Today's technical measures allow us not to be passive observers and anticipate such situations. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It is our duty to allow all modern measures to increase flood safety. In my view, the POLRAD network is an integral part of the modern flood safety system. This amendment will lead to the acceleration of procedures related to radar location in isolation from time-consuming administrative procedures in the case of non-flooding facilities. During the work of the committee on the draft law, a minority request was submitted to cover not only weather radars but also real estate intended for flood protection. Some flood protection facilities require technologically related objects that are not de facto flood prevention objects for full functionality. Due to the importance and importance of flood safety, the proposed amendment, which extends the scope of the contested legislation, is worth considering positively. It will allow for efficient implementation of investments not only in the field of facilities defined as flood prevention, but also in order to improve the level of flood safety. The bill was long-awaited and is very much needed. Let me express my hope that this will only be an introduction to the implementation of investments that will increase the level of flood safety. Let me also say that I myself experienced floods in 1997. As a hydrate directly affected by this cataclysm, I believe that the contested law will have positive effects not only in terms of implementation of the regulations, but also assumpt to the implementation of the weather radars set up in the Act, which, hopefully, will be in the right places in the right place, in order to serve the safety of the Polish society. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle support the bill submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u358	Thank you very much. Four Members have asked questions. I close the list of Members who have been asked questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. Mr Sylwester Khrushcz, the Kukiz Club15, asks the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u359	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you about these four new radar locations. Does that mean we don't have security in these places today? It's not just floods, it's not just submersibles, it's hailstorms, it's backs from the sea, there's a lot of threats. Does this mean that there were years of negligence, or did we simply not adjust the procedures? Where's the clou? Why didn't we have those four radars? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u360	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Marek Kwitek, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u361	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There is no doubt that the proposed amendment to the law is very much needed. All efforts must be made to ensure that flood safety is constantly raised. As an inhabitant of Sandomierz, I remember the flood of 2010, which affected the right bank of my city in a special way. For this reason, I am sure that any change that can prevent similar tragedies in the future should be made as soon as possible. I am convinced that simplifying procedures and shortening the time necessary to ensure full coverage of the radar area of Poland will allow effective forecasting of dangerous meteorological phenomena threatening the health and life of people, their possessions, as well as businesses, infrastructure and cultural heritage of our country. I have the following question in relation to the contested law: How long will the time necessary to carry out all the procedures for implementing the flood-building investment be reduced compared to the existing legislation? In what time is full radar coverage of Poland's surface planned? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u362	Now the question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u363	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Member has just read my mind, because I wanted to ask you the same question. There is no doubt that this investment process will be significantly accelerated. I hope that these administrative formalities related to land ownership matters, etc. They'll be settled quickly too. It is reasonable to ask how quickly we will be able to cover the entire territory of Poland with these radars, if we assume acceleration. I hope this is happening as soon as possible. And any additional question: What will be the cost of completing the installation of these radars to cover the entire territory with these installations? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u364	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u365	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am a citizen of Koszalin, and storms often occur in our region from Darlov to Mrzeżyn. My question is: Will radar systems also report storms? Will the new location in the north-eastern part of Gdansk Bay improve the information and warning system? And since we're talking about storms, I'm saying that early in the year, storms just destroyed a lot of sea shores. I've been writing interpellations. I will also add that Koszalin is connected to Lake Jamno and thanks to the construction of the gate now at 12 degrees on the Beaufort scale the water was overflowing and spilled from Jamna onto roads, into buildings, standing. It's better now, but if the system keeps you informed, I'm sure it'll be even better. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u366	Thank you very much. The debate is closed in the parliamentary section. Now for your vote, Mr. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Mariusz Gajda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u367	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank the applicants very warmly for the proposal for this law, which will allow really fast, much faster implementation, the setting up of meteorological radars. The question was, at what time it could have been done so far, and at what time it could be done now. This time, according to the existing legal order, was often indefinite. It's been going on for years. It was enough that one of the landlords or an office, someone opposed it and therefore either had to have long discussions, or cases were based on administrative courts. So it can be said that this time was striving for infinity. Now according to this specialty - similarly, when it comes to all other specialties, whether road or flood, the existing ones - can be arranged That's a lot faster. There are deadlines. I think it's going to be about a six-month period when it comes to obtaining a decision. We're really planning on... There's one radar on Mount St. Anne, he's in the crates. We are just waiting for these decisions, and we immediately assemble them, while the remaining three in the next 3 years will be built, they will be made. These radars of all meteorological phenomena do not capture, but capture the most dangerous ones, namely cloud clusters: storm clouds, rain clouds. They can be used to predict where and how much rain will fall, and thus to warn the locals. I would also like to refer to the request of the Civic Platform Club to extend this law. What I also said yesterday: we have this extension in the draft Water Law Act. Since certain definitions have changed and a legislative mess has arisen, we propose - while I appeal to the opposition Members, if they are so interested in this security - to proceed as soon as possible on this Water Law, because it will solve many problems in a much more lasting way. This parliamentary project is very good, it is done a little ad hoc so that it can still be placed as a guarantee on the Mount of St. Anna, while the Water Law project, the Water Law Act will cover these issues in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u368	Thank you very much. Whether the draftsman of the committee wants to speak or everything... Everything hasn't been said yet. Mrs Anna Paluch. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u369	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank all the representatives of the clubs, the Seym Clubs, for their statements of support for this law. I'm so happy for you. Our common concern is to provide security for Poles, and certainly these weather radars will contribute to this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u370	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Assembly (print No. 1496). I ask Mr Andrzej Halicki to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u371	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I see there are no government representatives. This is a rather interesting situation, but also symptomatic, because the Assembly Law is the foundation of democratic order, a fundamental civil right. [[Voice from the room: They're here.]] You're here. That's very nice. I was worried that we would only debate together. This is a fundamental civil right, which we should respect from 1989 as a source of our security and freedom. I am talking about this in the context of repeated debates on this subject, as well as in the context of the judgments of the Constitutional Court, which has repeatedly relied on the shortcomings of the laws that have been in place since 1989, pointing out the shortcomings of these provisions. They were also the subject of complaints and monitoring and decisions by supranational institutions, inter alia. the European Court of Human Rights. I am thinking about the Strasbourg judgments known in the wider context, the Bączkowski case against Poland and other judgments on this issue. I would like to remind you of this, because this is a common voice and was also strongly emphasized during the debates that took place at the time of the adoption, I have no doubt, the best law since 1989 and the most democratic, pro-Citizen, which also stressed Law and Justice with the lips of its leading representative Jack Sasin at that time. I am thinking about the law adopted on 24 July 2015 by quoting representatives of Law and Justice, I would quote just one passage: Only undemocratic and usurpative power is afraid of its own citizens on the streets. Free citizens are the fear of dictatorship. It was part of a wider message, which was wrapped in so-called. Of course, the democratic package also referred to the Assembly Law. At the end of its work, Law and Justice criticized this law. Namely, it criticized from one angle. Once again, I will use the quote from the leading then Mr Sasin, who said or stressed that, while appreciating the great progress and even two steps forward that this law makes to the predecessor, it would be bad for you to restrict your ability to gather, so it would be good and we suggest that you should not restrict this possibility only to express your opinion in public matters, with the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal of 2014, on 18 September, although overinterpreting this ruling, you considered - and so was the position of the PiS - that the unlimited freedom of assembly should also be extended to private matters, which would also mean the possibility of organising, in a roundabout, on the occasion of e.g. The birthday anniversary round. In theory, such events should also be secured by the police or local authorities to make them safer. Here we had some kind of philosophical dispute, but there was no doubt that this July 2015 law was the basis for taking a step forward towards a positive response to the very critical report of the Committee on Law, the Commission of the Council of Europe, which covered Poland with monitoring in this area, not only torture, as we discussed yesterday, but also not guaranteeing fundamental civil rights precisely because of the limitation of the right to assembly. The bill passed, I remind you, was also one of the first to be signed by President Andrzej Duda. I am talking about this with satisfaction, because he also, when he signed it, spoke of a clear progress towards all previous regulations, and I started my speech with a quote from Minister Szczerski. As you know perfectly well, he is a minister at the President's Office, as well as a person who expressed doubts about the adopted Act of 13 December 2016. Data, I believe, is not accidental because it introduces limitations that we know from the past. A bit like a black dream appears in the context of yesterday's debate or even not so much debate as trying to justify and explain the beastly behaviour of the police at the police station in Wrocław. I am sorry to say this, because one of the elements of the debate in July or summer 2015 was, of course, Mr Sasin's view: it is obvious that the assemblies are to express their negative opinions about power. It is not possible to disband assembly, for example, because of shouting against authority that discontent is expressed loudly, whether in the form of shouts or banners. Lying to power is not a crime. Let's not go the way we're going, I hope, of the past communist era. How does this apply to what you created in this bubble, which is the Law on Assembly Nomen Omen on 13 December 2016, about which President Duda had reasonable doubts? Why am I talking about bubble? Because from September 2015 - then President Duda signed the Assembly Act - up to the last few days we had not had a single incident connected either with a conflict with the local authorities, or an impossibility to organise, or an effective legal appeal against prohibitions, possibly restrictions, other locations or other obstacles to the organisation of the Assembly. I would like to remind you that before 2015 we had conflicts, there were legitimate claims from different sides, whether LGBT or national environments, about obstruction of assembly or manifestation. Some did not take place, some very often obtained legality status after the proposed date, i.e. in short, the appeal and the conduct of the entire legal route prevented it from being carried out effectively before the initial date proposed in the notification. I am talking about this because - and I stress it with all my power, twice - although they are not proclaimers of the same views, both Robert Winnicki, if you look towards those who were among the organisers of the Independence March and the LGBT environment, they will all say today that there has been a clear improvement since September 2015. This improvement was praised by no one but Marshal Kuchciński to the Commissioner for Foreign Affairs. human rights to Mr Muiznieks, who visited Poland in 2016 and who removed restrictions on the right to assembly from the agenda of matters which Poland does not respect. Moreover, Marshal Kuchciński stated with satisfaction that it was the result of a joint and good work, as well as the results of the permanent subcommittee's work from the previous term of office, which eliminated what was failing in Polish democracy. Among other things, as a result of our civil and parliamentary involvement in these matters, we also raised the issue of the Police. Commissioner Muiznieks welcomed this point on the Assembly Act, and Marshal Kuchciński, I will say it immodestly, thanked me personally for this contribution, as he had previously been the head of the permanent subcommittee and later became the Minister of Digitization and Administration, de facto I implemented the resolution of this earlier subcommittee concerning the recovery of this situation in the form of a new legislative act. Today in the High House, not only do many controversy and conflicts, but also because citizens face the threat of losing and restricting their fundamental rights, the Civic Platform Club - and I hope that there will also be a lot of cooperation between clubs, as was previously the case - proposes to return to the provisions of the 2015 Act. Why? Because even recently you had evidence in the form of judgments, that so-called. The monthly magazine in Krakowskie Przedmieście is not implemented according to your intention, because this bubel does not guarantee you a monopoly either. Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz wrongly refused to hold a picket before the theatre on the presentation of the Curse, which was effectively challenged and challenged before the administrative court. That's what this road is for, so short that it could be done at a certain time. She had previously allowed the ONR march and when you read the letter of the bill exactly, it was obvious that she could not stop it, although we might be appalled and disagree with some of the slogans or shouts that were raining there. An intervention or reaction to something that can be qualified as a violation of the law, however, takes place only when the infringement takes place. You can't intentionally do that. Forbid a person from gathering or expressing his views and opinions. We touch matter, which is the foundation of a democratic state. Today, once again, we should effectively lean on the fact that, first of all, we should not accept the situation in which, briefly speaking, there is a rule of law or chaos in this matter, and go back to a law that has actually enjoyed a positive opinion of all the experts' communities, to correct the mistake that you made in a hurry, unwisely and, I believe, also counterproductively, as it is elegantly said, because it is evident that you are not even guaranteed to realize here the intention, that monopoly, which was to be the result of saving the definition of cyclical manifestations and art. 11, which is not precisely defined by this definition. That this provision is inconsistent with the constitution, I have no doubt - we can argue whether today's tribunal exists or not; I believe that it does not - but there is also no doubt about it by the Office of Sejm Analysis. I would like to remind you that the July 2015 law has received not only positive opinions, it is in line with the rulings of the Court of Justice of 2004, 2008, 2014, but above all it has been praised by institutions such as the Ombudsman, the committee and the committee working with us, the Helsinki Foundation, the Council of Europe and those committees I have mentioned before, and the Office for Sejm Analysis, and rarely happens, begins its legal opinion with the opinion: The evaluation of this project is strongly positive, and this law - necessary for the regulations covered by the earlier rulings of the Constitutional Tribunal. I do not recall that the Sejm Analysis Office often uses an adjective to evaluate the proposed acts. What do we now read in the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office? In the case of November 2016: In relation to the existing law of 24 July 2015, which has significantly improved and properly regulates the matters of assembly, the proposed law infringes Article. 57 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland with regard to Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 One, then, of these cyclical gatherings. It stresses that it is unclear both to define the cyclical assemblies themselves and to give priority to the choice of the place and time of those assemblies, that Article. 57 The Constitution makes it clear that it is impossible to conclude that the legislator may in any way decide on the content and scope of the restrictions on freedom of assembly that, in the light of the above, it should be pointed out that the restriction of freedom of the above-mentioned article is to be examined. 12 established pursuant to Article. 57 - for this is a constitutional basis for the Law of Assembly - must meet all requirements, not only fragmentedly and intentionally, i.e. selectively, to this article. 57 refer. In conclusion, in order not to prolong, because the comments are more, it is worth noting again that the intentions and executions of the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal of 18 September 2014 - this is the most recent ruling on the signature K 44/12 - and the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights of 3 May 2007 and subsequent, i.e. the case of Bączkowski against Poland, but also subsequent complaints, of course the most important one is the one on the signature 1543/06 - the act adopted on 24 July 2015 is implemented. Therefore, so that the citizen was not afraid of the uniform, only felt safe in the face of officers who acted on his behalf, so that the citizen knew that in Poland he had the right and freedom of expression, and freedom of assembly, in the face of the law being the law, and that you would not hide, as Urban used to do, with falsehood, lies and cynicism, only justice meant what it should mean, I appeal to the majority of Parliament to return to what you yourselves praised as a determined two step forward in relation to all previous laws based on constitutional freedoms, democracy, everything that you so willingly write on your banners. The 2015 Act, our parliamentary project introduced today again, gives you a chance to be honest and I call for you to take this opportunity. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u372	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u373	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr Andrzej Halicki compared the behaviour of his opponents to Jerzy Urban. Mr President, the spokesperson of martial law praised the martial law in which people died. I think it's unworthy to go to such comparisons and make a mark of equality, it's a disgrace in this place. [[Applause]] [[Disgraceful.]] [[I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] I could be different from you. I could be different from everyone else, but in my life it would never occur to me to compare your activities or the legislative ideas of the Platform to those of the time of martial law. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Andrzej Halicki has used the term "This does not guarantee you a monopoly" on several occasions, assessing the current rules introduced by the Sejm majority. I think I said three times, you used those words: it doesn't guarantee you a monopoly. Well, that's a deep mistake, sir. It wasn't a monopoly, it wasn't a monopoly. The best proof is that the big, small, bigger - here was the discussion, but certainly the big - march of freedom, which was organized by PO, PSL and other political parties, did not take place under such conditions that people were afraid of the uniform, no one scared the people who were on this manifestation. Few of this was done in such a way that government criticism was very harsh from the stand, sometimes very brutal on banners and all this was done in peaceful conditions. Can't you see that the Law and Justice and no one came up with the idea to block this march halfway to prevent this march? Do you not see that the opponents of the party state did not come to mind to enter this march and try to determine who is right, physically, using their hands? Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this law guarantees the rights of citizens. However, what happened when we pointed out that there are cyclical anniversaries when there are annual celebrations, e.g. commemorating the death of 100 people in the Smolensk disaster? Well, we were all able to observe what happened in Kraków Przedmieście. Do you understand civil rights that one group wants to prevent the other group from manifesting, blocking the possibility of a demonstration across Krakowskie Przedmieście, or in such a way that it enters this point because it is registered close to or in the same place, and tries to struggle physically? It happened that man was simply struck in the face just because he had different views; only because between these two people - the one who struck the former Solidarity activist and the one who manifested - there were no other disputes: private, court, family, just these people had different views, and that's why we introduced this law to prevent it. Besides, if you are saying that we are demanding a monopoly that we are abolishing civil rights, and this is the last sentence I will no longer mention, I would like to ask: Are you determined not to do what is happening at Wawel? In our civilization, ladies and gentlemen, the High Seym, in the culture in which we live, in European civilization, not only Christian - not only Christian - there is no permission for such a thing that, if someone goes to the cemetery to visit the graves of their loved ones, in this case Wawel crypts are this place, just a cemetery... [[What were you doing in Snowballs?]] Manifested by screaming, screaming, preventing someone from praying. And yet, let me remind you, going to the graves of your loved ones is not a public or political manifestation... [[And Wawel's not a graveyard.]] ...only this is a visit to the burial place of your loved ones or participation in the Holy Mass. And because, please, everyone in Poland saw what was happening in Kraków Przedmieście, we see the need to guarantee the right of all citizens to manifest freely, so that there is no such right that some might forcefully - forcefully prevent others - from manifesting their own views. So much was parum after these regulations were passed, it turned out that you can freely manifest in the place and in the time you choose. Why? Because this law does not apply to such manifestations, they are not limited in any way, they are not limited in any way, that is obvious. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice I ask for the rejection in full in the first reading of the Parliamentary bill amending the Law on Assembly, [[♪ The bell ♪]] printing No 1496. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u374	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Grabec will speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u375	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! There are words of outrage about protests, demonstrations against the monthlys. Outraged members of the PiS that citizens protest against the party-religious celebration invented by the PiS. [[It's not that they're protesting, it's the way they're protesting.]] A patent that has nothing to do with Catholicism, as the bishops of the Catholic Church speak. But the same PiS politicians didn't mind whistles in the cemetery. Let me remind you that you said that this is the voice of a sovereign, that politicians are supposed to listen to the voice of a sovereign in the form of whistles in the cemetery. High Seym! The draft amendment of the Law on Assembly is a short bill, but very important. It is about restoring constitutional and international standards, including the rights guaranteed by the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. One of the fundamental civil liberties - freedom to organise and participate in peaceful assemblies - was limited by the so-called Sejm. The Act on Monthlys, i.e. the Act amending the Law on Assembly of 13 December 2016. The monthly law was adopted on 13 December, because on 13 December there are memories of the dramatic limitation of the rights and civil liberties of Poles. Unfortunately, this was the case on 13 December 2016, when the majority of the Sejm limited the possibility of countermanufacturing. The law declared by the PiS at that time distinguished the special category of conventions, these monthlys, setting up a special registration procedure for them. The Act of 13 December allowed the state authorities to act behind the back of the local government and special treatment of the monthly. It also enabled Poles to take away the right to manifest their own views. [[To trample on dignity.]] However, the freedom to organise and participate in peaceful assembly is directly due to the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Freedom of assembly is a natural, inalienable freedom, not a law that can be granted or taken away. Therefore, this right only guarantees and does not grant it. Freedom must not be dependent on this or any other parliamentary majority. The restriction of this fundamental freedom undermines the foundations of a democratic rule of law. There is no democracy if there is no freedom of assembly, just as there is no freedom of speech, freedom of conscience and freedom of religion. Art. 30 of the Constitution states: The natural and inalienable dignity of man is a source of freedom and human rights and of the citizen. It is inviolable and its respect and protection is the responsibility of the public authorities. There is no doubt that freedom of assembly is inextricably linked to the equality of the entities that organize it, the different actors, regardless of their views, whether they express their views in the interests of the governing party or other views. It is the duty of authority to provide the conditions for the exercise of the right to freedom of assembly, including security and order, and the restrictions introduced under Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 the Constitution must not affect the substance of that freedom in a disproportionate manner to the purposes for which protection justifies its introduction. Why, then? On 13 December, PiS adopted the Act on the Months, violating this fundamental freedom - freedom of assembly? Let us remind you that the Association of Polish Citizens has been organizing a picket in Kraków Przedmieście for months. They put out quotes when the parliamentary majority in the Sejm raped the constitution by taking away the independence of the Constitutional Court. They put out banners with quotes from the sayings of the sleep. Lech Kaczyński, who stressed the importance and importance of the independence of the Constitutional Tribunal. When PiS decided to refer women to a law punishing women for abortion in the event of rape or health threats, the Polish citizens on the picket put quotes from the statements of the deceased in Krakowskie Przedmieście. Maria Kaczyńska. It didn't like it, which is why you adopted a bill limiting the possibility of countermandation. However, Poles love freedom. We have warned you that if you restrict the rights of Poles, if you take away the right to assembly, they will be defiant, and that there will be more people for countermanufacturing than for a month. And that's what's been happening lately. [[Dreams.]] High Seym! The bill submitted by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, which we are currently debating, restores law and justice... [[Ha, ha, ha.]] ...brings back the right to assembly according to the constitution and justice in equal treatment of manifestations regardless of which sort of Poles express their views. Do not be afraid of Poles, do not be afraid of their voice, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Don't take them off the police cordon.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u376	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Kukiz Club, 15 will speak...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u377	Listen to the Poles and support a good bill. Don't throw him away at first reading. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u378	...Mr Sylvester Khrushch. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u379	On behalf of the parliamentary club, I request that he be referred to further work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u380	You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u381	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz club15 in relation to the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Assembly. The Act of 13 December 2016 amending the Law on Assembly Law introduced the possibility of organising cyclical gatherings taking precedence over the choice of place and time in the organisation of the Assembly before others. As a representative of the environment which since 2010 organizes the Independence March - the greatest patriotic manifestation on 11 November, but at the same time one that arouses the greatest emotions among the opponents - I observe the problems of its organizers. Unfortunately, for years various kinds of extremists, hooligans have been trying to disrupt the holiday, which should connect us, all Poles. Importantly, the people who register their assembly on the March of Independence route do not want to celebrate. Their goal is to spoil our national Polish holiday. [[Were you listening?]] We have more examples of such behavior, and these are not just about the March of Independence. We believe that moving the competitive assembly by 100 m does not restrict the freedom of assembly, but allows the security of the representatives of the two often conflicted parties. Before 2 April 2017, there were curial situations when a group of 10 people tried to stop a 100-thousand march. [[That's not true.]] The explanatory memorandum states that applicants want to restore constitutional and international standards. Do you think that restricting the freedom of assembly by extreme, but few groups on the route of cyclically organized assembly are democratic, European standards? [[You didn't prepare, you didn't prepare.]] I stress once again that the intention of the Kukiz Club is not to restrict freedom of speech, but to ensure security for all parties. Let each side manifest its views, but in a certain distance, a safe distance from each other. Organisers who, four times a year or at least once a year on public and national holidays - such events that have taken place three times - organise their assembly - should have priority over spontaneous assemblies. This does not conflict with the standards of organizing and holding conventions. And yet, continuing, I heard here the argument of the Civic Platform Club. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the Himalayas of hypocrisy, what you are presenting. You really support extreme groups that allow Poles to manifest, celebrate. [[But don't be embarrassed, sir.]] If we were afraid of someone during the independence marches, we were afraid of you and the cops who attacked us. We were afraid of your provocations, your hooliganism. [[Applause]] and lack of standards and normal upbringing. [[Talk to your people. First find out, then talk.]] Are we, the nationals, us Poles attacking your marches, Schuman marches, marches of freedom? No. You're clear to go. All Poles can celebrate. But you don't like our religious holidays, our independence marches. This is where you show your hooliganism. That's what you have to call it anyway. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[And the gays beat you up. But you people are national!]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u382	Thank you very much. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have a large audience at the gallery, young people. We cordially greet you. [[Applause]] Mr Mirosław Suchoń will now speak on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u383	Thank you very much, Marshal. I do not know if I can use Mr Khrushch's time, because he has not exhausted it, and I would like to tell him that during the committee meeting there were the organisers of the Independence March and they, like one husband with other organizations, claimed that this amendment... [[Exactly.]] ...which was reported by the PiS Members at the time is unnecessary. So why don't you talk to your friends... [[Exactly. Exactly. With them.]] ...and then here he's telling the truth, not bullshit. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll introduce... [[And you were on the March of Independence?]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] ...in relation to the bill's position of the Modern Posel Club. Gentlemen, I'll have time for me now. The draft submitted concerns the restoration of the convention standards in force until 2 April 2017. This is, of course, a good goal, although it must also be said openly that the provisions of the Act are not even free from certain elements before 2 April, I would say excessive regulation of constitutional freedom to organize manifestations and express opinions, and this excessive regulation also needs to be amended sometime. But that's the proposal we have today, and we're gonna face it now. I'll tell you the obvious at first. Well, the Posel Club Modern will support this bill. We will support this project because for the modern constitution and the resulting freedoms are the foundation of democracy. This foundation, our constitution, provides for everyone, among others. freedom to organise and participate in peaceful assembly and freedom to express their views. Of course, restrictions on freedom of peaceful assembly may be laid down by law, but in the light of the constitutional equality of citizens in a democratic state of law, there cannot be a situation where a political group provides itself with a kind of concession for better treatment and instrumentally limits rights and freedoms to its needs. And that's what it is today. PiS, wanting to be calm during political demonstrations, pushed through the High House laws introducing the right to organise privileged assemblies, so-called. cyclical gatherings. However, pursuant to Article. 57 constitutions citizens have the freedom to organise assemblies, not the right to organise them. And here to your honourable colleague, Mr Czartoryski - there is a difference. Freedom is not the same as the law. The law should only guarantee this freedom, not favour the chosen. We fully share the views expressed by Prof. Marian Andrzej Liwo in the position of the Chief Bar Council, which also presents this point of view. High Izbo! I now want to talk about an important issue which is the subject of regulation and which shows another fundamental error in the understanding of the freedom of assembly by the PiS. The adoption of the submission will result in a return to the legal situation introduced by the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment of 18 September 2014. In this judgment, the Tribunal pointed out, inter alia, that public authorities should ensure the conditions for the implementation of the freedom of peaceful assembly, regardless of the form in which individuals wish to use it. This is one of the basic duties of state authorities towards citizens. However, we are seeing a complete lack of understanding from the PiS of the axiom that ensuring the security of expression during manifestation and countermanification not only to comrades of the PiS, but to all citizens, regardless of their views, is a duty of services supervised by Minister Błaszczak. The different perception of this issue by the PiS is contrary to the ideas for which Poles fought before 1989. Ladies and gentlemen! Already during the work on the novel, which introduced the entire system of cyclical gatherings into legal order, Modern pointed out, together with NGOs, that arbitrary and unjustified restrictions on civil liberties were unacceptable. Such decisions must be motivated by strong grounds for the security of the state and its citizens. However, this amendment was based solely on the concern that the views expressed by Poles who did not share the vision of the state proclaimed by the PiS should not reach the ears of the asset present on the protests of the PiS. That's why that amendment woke up. categoric opposition of Modern and other parliamentary and parliamentary clubs. What is worth pointing out is that there was not even one social organisation in the work on this amendment that would support the project. Even those close to the PiS indicated that the bill was unnecessary. Therefore, the amendment which we are now looking at and which is intended to eliminate this privileged PiS towards ordinary Poles deserves support. Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Modern Posel Club on the basis of the provision of the Article. 51 due to the occurrence of [[♪ The bell ♪]] Special considerations, i.e. Restoration of constitutional regulations, I request you to proceed to second reading...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u384	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u385	...on completion of the first, without sending the project back to the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u386	Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski now has the floor on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u387	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Respecting the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, guaranteed rights as defined by the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and respecting and respecting the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 18 September 2014, a group of Members sent a draft law to the Marshal's staff, which we are leaning over today. As a general rule, the Members of the applicant accepted the provision of the Article. 57 Constitutions on the absence of grounds for differentiation from the point of view of their protection, using the criterion of the organisation of a given grouping of persons. The amendment introduced on 2 April 2017 to allow for cyclical gatherings to take precedence over the place and time of the assembly to be held before other assemblies already at the stage of its procession and adoption raised public opposition, which, as it soon appeared, in some situations turned into a social rebellion. The designers of the normative act that is being adopted today do not want a revolution in its entirety, they want to restore normality, and Poles want a sense of dignity, respect and minimum justice. Any differentiation of citizens, regardless of what purpose it would serve, must sooner or later give rise to disapproval, rebellion and resistance. The Polish People's Party strongly and decisively opposes such statutory or statutory regulations, which will in any way differentiate and divide citizens. Here I think of the superiority of one social group over another. Therefore, if such regulations are based on the rules of the State, it is difficult to establish in a responsible manner equal treatment of all citizens by that State, and this leads to the exclusion of certain social groups which do not accept such a legal order. Therefore, it cannot remain in the Polish legal order any provision guaranteeing only a specific social group chosen by the authorities of the right to assembly or demonstration, and this is a long time in advance. Speaking in the Sejm on 29 November 2016, I said that creating a privileged situation for any group of citizens would be a dangerous breach in the Polish legal order. That's what we don't agree to, and there won't be. We haven't changed our opinions on this. High Seym! How easy it is to imagine a situation in which, after changing the governing team or other political orientation, a new authority, contrary to and in spite of its power, would introduce an obligation, and it is legally guaranteed, to worship other historical events or extraordinary events only by itself. Poland is not a desert island. Therefore, as a democratic legal state, we should restore normality to society, without applying deviations too much to the left or right. Poles have the right to feel at home in Poland, treated equally in their own country, especially when it comes to public space. In the belief that the adoption by the High House of today's project will satisfy the expectations of millions of Poles and Poles, it will restore citizens' confidence in normality, the Polish People's Party, on whose behalf I have the honour to speak out of this stand, will vote unanimously in favour of printing solutions No. 1496. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u388	Thank you very much. Six ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time for the question - one minute. As the first Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u389	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Poles want the standards of organizing and holding peaceful assemblies to be restored to 2 April. The effect of the PiS Convention Law is e.g. a ban issued by the Mazowieckie Voivodeship on 10 May at the Hoover Square. A good change takes away the rights of Polish citizens. Minister! The law in force is extremely divided. Don't you see that? A better sort can have a policy under the banner of the Smolensk monthlys, and ordinary citizens have no right to organise a peaceful, apolitical assembly at this time. There's no permission to do that. Minister, why do you divide Poles and limit freedom of assembly? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u390	Oh, my God. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u391	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Is it true that the Act of 13 December 2016 is a violation of the principle of legal certainty and may expose to high financial costs the organisers, who will at the last moment refuse to agree to hold a meeting? Because let's assume - and here it is actually addressed also to the masters of the PiS who introduced this bullshit - that the voivode will give permission to perform a cyclical assembly at the same time as the other ordinary assembly, which was reported more in advance. And then what? The municipality will be forced to prohibit an ordinary assembly which interferes with a cyclical assembly or a voivode from issuing a replacement order. It's a big cost. And the question is, does law and justice want to stigmatize citizens? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And introduce hierarchy? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u392	Thank you. Now the question is asked by Mrs Marta Golbik, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u393	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Freedom of assembly is ensured by the constitution and international conventions and can only be restricted for strictly defined reasons, due to the necessary protection of security, protection of public morality or public order, freedom and rights of others. Questions to the Minister: Does the Government of Law and Justice feel that these goods are now in real danger? I also have a question for the applicant: Is it true that the 2016 monthly law is a legal bubble that contains a lot of gaps, ambiguities and really shows the quality of the legislative technique of the PiS government? Are two weeks of work on the bill without public consultation enough to create a good bill as important as the convention bill? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u394	Mr Sylwester Khrushch asks a question on behalf of the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u395	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question for the Minister: Does this convention bill give you the opportunity to ensure the security of the protestors, or does it reduce security? Did that law, which was before, give you more security options, or the present one? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u396	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u397	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I wanted to ask you: Does the government see this delicate difference between freedom of assembly and the right to hold assemblies? Because these are two different things. The Constitution ensures freedom, while the law should allow for the exercise of that freedom. Does the government see this delicate difference? Because I feel like you guys don't see it all the time. You are confusing the right with freedom, with the possibility, with the freedom that is defined in the Constitution. The second question and the second question to the representative of the government: Do you happen to have the impression that these provisions, which were voted and adopted by Members of the PiS, did not, by any chance, complicate the whole situation, dissipate the whole situation? Because I have the impression that these laws have caused such an unhealthy reaction among demonstrators and counter-demonstrators. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I also have a request for Members...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u398	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u399	... applicants for their views on these two issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u400	... Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u401	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Every citizen of our country has a constitutional right to freedom, including freedom of assembly. The state of the famous law of last year has severely limited this freedom of Poles. My question is why today, Minister, do you not want to at least partially correct the evil that happened when you introduced your bill? The law, which was introduced as a parliamentary project and therefore there was no public consultation, was not possible to give an opinion on this very important social change by the environment, generally by any environment which should have a voice in this regard. And I have a question for the applicants: Isn't this law, in this respect, fixing this bad law, giving the opportunity to consult on how important it is? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u402	Thank you. Thank you, Members. I now ask the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Sebastian Chwałk. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u403	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For the short questions that have emerged here, I will try to answer them so quickly. They fell here, and there are indications that freedom can be reduced in what situations. One of these prerequisites is, of course, public security, so any issues related to civilization, with a certain introduction of the formulation of security implementation, that is the issue which, among other things, is. affects public safety. Yes, this law makes it possible to increase the security of all protesters, both of them - cyclical and non-cyclical and accidental passers-by. I think that this law indicates that this amendment of 13 December clarifies the way in which the principle of freedom of assembly is expressed, the security requirements. There were allegations of her unconstitutionality. I remind you of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal on this law, the most recent, of 16 March 2017. Art. 1 paragraph 4 of the project - in accordance with the Constitution, Article. 2 laws - in accordance with the Constitution. The introduction of institutions for cyclical assembly is a new, additional way of defining a legal framework for the implementation of freedom of assembly - says the Constitutional Tribunal. This interference, which is proportionate, is constitutionally permitted, is laid down in the Act, serves to achieve certain values such as state security and public order. It can even be said that since the procedure for organising cyclical gatherings is more rigorous than those organized, so-called. notified, this granting of the temporary priority to these assemblies gives them this privileged character, and in fact compensates for the degree of interference of the legislator in the exercise of the freedom of these assemblies. The determination of the distance between two antagonistic assemblies per 100 m fully implements the right to express opinions both on the one and on the other, and the benefit of this is to increase the security of all: protesters, protesters and random passersby. Although there is not yet a government position on this project. It is currently under investigation, but the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration does not see the need for a novel. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u404	Thank you. Are you the representative of the applicants? [[Yes, I would.]] There you go, Mr Andrzej Halicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u405	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to respond, starting with Mrs Borowska... Zielińska, right? Mrs Zielińska is already here. I would also like to address my apology to Mr Khrushch because I have responded emotionally, but it is a big misunderstanding - and especially after the quote from Mr Winnicki - to confuse what was before 2015, what was possibly a failure, as Mr Winnicki pointed out during his work, not agreeing fundamentally on the direction of the law adopted in 2016, which we are talking about, which should be replaced by the 2015 one. What was the essence of things? Mr Winnicki says this: It cannot be supported because it is bad, because it not only contains a number of minorities - to which I will refer in a moment - but above all it introduces the whole apparatus of the state, voivodeships, parties and the whole system, which does not make sense at all, because it imposes this political dimension on every decision. What were the shortcomings, or what was the practice or gateway, which some actually used in certain conflicts? On the fact that in 30 days, registering, you could be the first, but in fact someone registered for two days, for example, a demonstration in a given place, i.e., in short, was ahead of it calendarally. This was the place where negotiations had to take place. And it is clear that the administration responsible for governance and security in this case could not give the wise guys a right, and therefore they did not stand a chance in the appeal process either. However, there were no events that would have occurred before 2015, that there was no blockade or collision at all. That wasn't the situation. On this side, both the organisers of the Independence March and 60 other organisations that participated in the consultations during the 2015 Act were right to improve this and the civilised one, including the appeal process, the process which this law defined. I'm saying this very clearly. It's never that the bill can't be improved. On the other hand, the essence of the change, which was also denied by the organiser of the Independence March, is politicisation, hence the word "monopole," Mr Czartoryski, and I refer once again to the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office. I am talking about the monopoly, because even this analysis from 2016, i.e. from November, emphasizes very clearly how - we are talking about state bodies here - the advantage of one cyclical manifestation over others is to be defined. We talked about this proportion - at least four, but what four in a year, on what basis, etc. We note that the registration of the cyclical assembly is decided by the voivode, i.e. the central authority nominated by the government, not by the local government. The government in this case is homogeneous, so it's one lot. How is the applicant to justify that the assembly is aimed in particular at celebrating important and important events in the history of the Republic of Poland? After all, this is written in this definition of cyclicality. How? You document this by requesting the decision of the voivodeship that these monthlys or any other events are relevant to the history of the Republic of Poland and the importance of the historical event? Perhaps the voivode sees this, perhaps it is in the proposal, but it is always discretionary and it is always vague. This was pointed out in the expert opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office signed in this case by the boss, Prof. Dr. Hab. Paul Sobczyk. It is not important who has signed the expert opinion, it is important, how important this argument is, because it is not allowed to spoil for the purposes of an individual event, which in addition is undefined, indeterminate, unclear. And from here, I'm going back to the point and to the conclusion. I wouldn't use words that wouldn't even come to mind on my own, because I'm a person who knows the police stations from the inside out. Sometimes I have deliberately broken the law in the name of freedom of assembly and expressing my opinion, and I would not want to do so because of the wrong law, it would seem, in a democratic and independent state. And if I'm talking about language... [[Well, how would it seem?]] That's right, it would seem, because we're starting to have doubts. I'm thinking of explaining yesterday what should be called a scandal. Where there's a violation of the law... A Polish citizen cannot fear an officer and a police station as a place where he does not feel safe. It means that the state doesn't work, that the state is oppressive. Do you recall how he explained to me this spokesperson that someone had been beaten up by himself... [[It was against the law of the state.]] ...that someone fell down the stairs, that someone -- well, that was before -- was aggressive or beat up paramedics -- that's what we heard yesterday -- drug addicts wanted, which is not true. Or there are other translations unworthy of this room. You can't tolerate something like this and tell Poles it happened. You have to call things by name. And the Law of Assembly, the law that gives us, citizens, fundamental freedoms, must serve everyone just as you have said, regardless of what you think. It is intended to give us, citizens, the guarantee of security, freedom of speech, freedom of conscience, freedom of religion, freedom of exercise of the faith which is considered right, freedom of expression of our thoughts, and - I will remind you once again of Mr Sasin's words - to also express political opinions, because freedom of assembly cannot be solved and restricted, for example, because shouts against power are made, and the loud dissatisfaction expressed, whether in the form of shouts or banners, cannot be a cause for interference. Let's not go the way we've been... [[And it's the way it is.]] ...hopefully, forever past the communist era. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u406	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading and to accede to the second reading of the draft law immediately after the conclusion of the first, without referring the draft law to the committee. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on the Restitution of National Cultural Goods (Prints No 1549 and 1576). I ask Mrs Mirosława Stachowiak-Różecka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u407	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are finishing work on a very important and expected project. These amendments, which the Senate is proposing, are tidy, so that at this point, it remains for me to thank especially those members of the cultural committee who worked in the subcommittee for their very efficient and consistent work on this project. And on behalf of the committee, I recommend the adoption of the Senate amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u408	Thank you very much, Member. Greetings to the children sitting in the gallery from Warsaw's common room. Welcome. [[Applause]] The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mrs Mirosław Stachowiak-Rózecka - on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u409	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As I also said on behalf of the committee, the work on this project was in fact absolutely in line with the divisions. The project was very expected and unfortunately delayed, so every day and every moment in the matter of restitution of cultural goods was extremely important. So once again on behalf of and on behalf of the committee, and all the members working in it, thank you very much for working well on this project. And the finale is just beautiful. We hope that this project will actually contribute to a more efficient recovery of lost cultural goods. He orders first and foremost certain legislative matters which have been scattered in many laws so far, and now will be in one, and will facilitate the process of Poland's recovery of cultural goods. Thank you again very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u410	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Wasilewska will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u411	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 21 April 2017, the Polish Sejm adopted a law on the restitution of national cultural goods. The Act was considered in the Senate of the Republic of Poland, where seven amendments were made to the text. These amendments do not change the nature of the provisions of the Act, do not affect its substantive value, are legislative in nature, clarify and harmonise existing terminology. In view of the above, the amendment to the Law on the Restitution of Cultural Goods is justified. On the other hand, the implementation of the Act will result in more effective and faster recovery of illegally lost cultural goods, increase their legal security in the event of theft or misappropriation, eliminate legal uncertainty and effectively protect the Polish cultural heritage. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of the bill incorporating the amendments proposed by the Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u412	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the Kukiz team15, Mrs Elżbieta Zielińska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u413	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As we have said in previous statements, we are very pleased that the issue of the protection of cultural goods has finally been taken up. Of course, we accept the Senate's amendments. These are amendments that are merely laying down this law. We are also pleased that in the near future we will be taking up further topics on the protection of cultural goods, namely the reform of the conservation service. We hope that, in the further work of the committee, we will also address topics in the field of museums, archaeology, because there are many omissions here. The Kukiz Club15 maintains its previous position and votes in favour of the amendments and for the entire Law on the Restitution of National Cultural Goods. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u414	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń will now speak on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u415	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club in relation to the Senate resolution on the Law on the Restitution of National Cultural Goods from Print No. 1549, after the presentation of the report of the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendments made by the Senate do not de facto change the substance of the bill. These are ordering amendments, amendments in a certain way clarifying - basically That's what they're called. So, of course, they're legitimate. The law itself is also worthy of support. Therefore, the Club Modern Members will, of course, oppose the rejection of the Senate's amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u416	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u417	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project is the introduction into Polish legislation of the EU directive on the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State of the European Union. The aim of the Directive is to protect the integrity of the cultural heritage of each EU country by facilitating their investigation of the return of cultural goods illegally removed from their countries. The Senate's amended amendments do not change the substance of the subject matter of the Act, and as regulations are intended to increase the legal security of cultural goods, the PSL club will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u418	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. I'm declaring a time-out. 6:30. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min. 38 hrs. 18 min 33]] I'm reopening the session. The Health Commission has submitted an additional report on the government draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare and certain other laws. [[Game in the hall, bell, applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the famous Felczyński bell. [[Joy in the Chamber]] The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the third reading of this draft law. The groups of Members have submitted proposals for the selection of members of the Commission for the removal of legal effects of re-privatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law. [[But you can't hear anything because there's a huge mess in the gym.]] The list of candidates is print number 1548. The committee's opinion is in print 1565. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of these proposals. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. This is print number 1580. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. The Committee on Culture and Media submitted a report on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2018 by the Year of the Jubilee of the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining Independence. This is print number 1527. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2018 by the Year of the Jubilee of the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining Independence (prints Nos 1511 and 1527). Please take the floor of the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Elżbieta Kruk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u419	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, I request that the resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of 2018 be adopted by the Year of the Jubilee of the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining Independence, a resolution with the following content. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] On November 11, 1918 the dream of generations of Poles was fulfilled - the Polish State was born again. After the partitions and 123 years of captivity, russification and Germanization, after great uprisings - free Poland returned to the map of the world. Out of this historical trial, our nation came out victorious because of those who remained relentless. The symbolic date of November 11 is firmly rooted in the national tradition. The regaining of independence was accomplished through a struggle full of dedication and heroism not only in battlefields, but also in daily struggles for the preservation of the spiritual and material substance of the national and in the daily life of Polish families. It was also because people representing different camps - the left of independence, national and folk - were able to communicate on the most important issues. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to the generations, thanks to which Poland regained independence. He pays tribute to the memory of the defenders of the Constitution on 3 May, soldiers of the Kościuszko Insurrection and subsequent national uprisings. He pays tribute to the memory of Polish legionnaires and all those fighting in the First World War and in the years 1918 to 1921: Lviv defenders, soldiers of the Wielkopolska Uprising and the Silesian Uprising and heroes of the Polish-Bolshevik war who defended young independence. Gratitude is also due to those who, after regaining independence, undertook the task of building a strong and modern state - the Second Republic. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland announces 2018 as the Year of the Jubilee of the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining Independence. He also hopes that, like the Independence Fathers - Józef Piłsudski, Roman Dmowski, Ignacy Paderewski, Wincent Witos, Wojciech Korfanty and Ignacy Daszyński - Poles will abandon disputes to celebrate this joyful Jubilee in unity and reconciliation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u420	Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the establishment of the year 2018 with the Year of the Jubilee of the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining Independence by acclamation. I would like to inform you that the formal proposals have been made by Members. Member Witold Zembaczyński, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u421	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I ask the Marshal to order a recess and call upon the Seniors' Convention, calling on the Deputy Prime Minister of Gliński to give an explanation. As I would like to point out at the outset, these may be explanations from the tablet. And this is about scandalous words that were uttered by your deputy, Deputy Minister Paweł Lewandowski, who was gracious to say that the relationship between artists and TVP is like a marriage and they cannot live without each other. It is only a pity that the Deputy Minister did not notice that one of the parties to this marriage, namely President Kurski, tried to terrorize the other side. The other side turned out to be brave enough to say goodbye to President Kursk. They are not artists, not Opole authorities, Prime Minister, but President Kurski is an aggressor in this marriage and beating his wife. Therefore, I demand from this place to punish Kurski's president, and the only punishment for this great chaos around the festival of the Polish song in Opole may be the resignation of Kurski's president. [[Voice from the room: It's a statement.]] Therefore, I would very much like to ask the marshal to convene the Senior Convention and finally to address the problem of the Polish song festival in Opole in a factual manner. On behalf of the Opole audience of the Polish song festival from this place, I promise that regardless of what form this festival will take place, President Kurski will be whistled. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u422	Thank you very much. Mr President, I inform you that Article. Paragraph 184. 2 says that the formal proposals may relate, I quote, only to matters on the agenda and the proceedings of the meeting. This case is not on the agenda, so I'd like to ask for a different procedure. [[It's a recess, Mr. Marshal.]] Member Tomasz Jaskoła, Kukiz club15, has the floor. It's also a formal conclusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u423	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I would like to ask you to celebrate the memory of the outstanding Polish patriot, 69 of whom. The anniversary of death, or murders, falls just today, the captain of Witold Pilecki, who was, as we know, a veteran of the 1920s war, an outstanding Polish soldier who was shot on 25 May 1948 in a prison at ul. It's a cancer movie. To this day its remains are sought by the Polish state, IPN. [[The assembled rise, a moment of silence]] Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u424	Thank you, sir. [[Mr. Marshal, this was part of the government's questions on current issues, part of the agenda.]] Member Tomasz Romankowski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u425	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm turning to a hot appeal. It is a vote on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights of 8 November last year on two joint draft laws concerning the Institute of National Remembrance. This is about our project, which assumes the Penalization of Flagism, and a very legitimate project of the government, the Ministry of Justice, which assumes the Penalization of the name of German Nazi extermination camps in Polish death camps. How long are we gonna wait? The Polish people are insulted every week by the international press. We have been waiting for more than six months, four months ago we applied for this item to be placed on the agenda. I would like to ask you today to adopt the second reading report. I strongly urge that our patriotism, which we have just shown, should not be asymptomatic patriotism. Mr. Marshal! I ask for a five-minute break and a call for the Senior Convention to also discuss this matter so that we may even avoid the need to vote so that this opposition is withdrawn. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u426	Thank you, sir. I inform you and the High House that this matter was discussed at the Senior Convention before the beginning of the Sejm meeting this week. I don't see why not. If the club had changed its mind, we would have known. If the sentence is not changed, I do not see the need to convene a convention. On the other hand, I would like to return to Mr Witold Zembaczyński's first proposal. [[We need to call off Kurski.]] Indeed, there was a complex question on current matters. [[Yes, Mr. Marshal.]] I therefore agree with you that this subject can be considered to be the subject of the agenda. [[Applause]] Excuse me, sir. I should therefore consider it a formal request for a recess... [[Of course.]] ...though the continuation of your speech and the request to convene the Senior Convention... [[So yes, but no.]] [[Fame, don't start.]] I'm gonna put the request to the vote because in this part of my opinion it's... [[Mr. Marshal, I would like to say that your translation is extremely clear.]] [[You're starting already?]] ...the application properly submitted, so please prepare to vote on the formal request. [[Ready.]] A formal request has been made for an adjournment to be put to the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 172 votes against - 259, with five abstentions. The motion was rejected. I would like to remind you that the Poselski Kukiz Club submitted a request to supplement the agenda with a point covering the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights of 8 November 2016 on the Parliamentary bill amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Prosecution of Crimes against the Polish National National Remembrance and on the Government's bill amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the pursuit of Crime against the Polish National Remembrance, the Law on graves and cemeteries of war, the Law on the liability of collective entities for acts prohibited under threat of punishment and the Act on the prohibition of promoting communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices (prints 771, 806 and 993). As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting a request to supplement the agenda with a point including consideration of the committee's report on the draft laws that I mentioned earlier would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 70 voted against - 355, 8 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. We return to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the system of common courts and certain other laws. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading and to refer the draft to the Legislative Commission for consideration. I would like to remind you that the Sejm Bureau has given an opinion on the proposal to refer the project to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. In the first place, I will put to the vote the motion to reject the draft law and, if it is rejected, the proposal that the Sejm Bureau has given its opinion. Questions are raised by Members. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u427	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Wisdom tells us to learn lessons from tragedy. The explanation of the circumstances of Mr Igor Stachowiak's death shows the important weakening of the protection of civil rights and freedoms in the situation when we submit the prosecutor's office to the Minister. Today, the de facto bill will be subject to the judicial authority of the Minister. I wanted to ask the parliamentary majority, ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, if you are aware of what you are doing. [[They're not.]] Are you aware of the harm you do to Poles and Poles in this sheep's rush to get to the Polish judges? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u428	Thank you. Mr Boris Budka, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u429	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the parliamentary majority: Why are you lying? Why have you been misleading the public for 18 months when you say you're reforming anything? What you are trying to push through the Polish Sejm at the moment is a de facto law which may be worse than the functioning of the judiciary in the period of the Polish Republic. It is a law whose sole purpose is to make the Minister of Justice, and thus the politician, your politician, have a direct influence on how the independent judges will function. So far, you have managed to destroy everything with your personnel decisions: Polish TV - we see Opole - you have destroyed Polish civil service, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Polish Police need to be repaired because there are incompetent people there, and at the moment you will make the situation worse than in the period of the Polish People's Republic. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u430	Thank you. Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u431	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to quote Jarosław Kaczyński's statement: I wanted to add one more thing to these issues which we are mostly discussing today, namely the independence of judges and the judiciary. I'm talking about how to appoint presidents. The idea is that this appointment should be related to the functioning of the local government. The point is that the judiciary in this new political system of Poland can play a role of arbitration both in individual disputes and in collective disputes, in wider social collections, in public life as well. Here, this political neutrality, neutrality towards the political forces that currently control executive power centres, administration, is simply necessary. It is worth asking: What has happened in these 30 years? Isn't neutrality and independence from political forces simply necessary, as Jarosław Kaczyński said? Is independence and independence within 30 years [[♪ The bell ♪]] The judge's no longer the foundation of democracy? [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Keep your voice down!]] Or maybe the president just stopped being a democrat? [[Applause]] [[Please don't scream, girl.]] [[Voices from the hall: Don't scream, don't scream.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u432	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! High Seym! At the moment, a representative of the Ministry of Justice, Deputy Minister Łukasz Piebiak, is asking for the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u433	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Very briefly, because it's a parliamentary presentation. You say that we are submissive, not to us, but, let's say, this project is submissive to the judges of the Polish Minister of Justice. Well, that's not true. You're abstracting from what's in this project. We, as a certain parliamentary majority, separate the Chinese administration wall from the case law. If someone interested wanted to take a look at this project, they'd see that we're obstructing the transfer of judges between departments. This is the factor that makes judges vulnerable to the influence of the presidents. We're making this harder. It's easy today. Once this law comes into force, that will not be the case. [[Ha, ha, ha! That's good.]] We're making cases run by judges whether they're still in the same town or in a higher court. They're gonna have to finish the case. It'll make things better. This will improve the efficiency of the proceedings. In fact, this law strengthens the independence of judges from the presidents. You say that he is subject to this law of judges of the Minister of Justice. Well, that's not true. If you submit to someone, it's the presidents, but in the field of judicial administration. [[Are the presidents judges or not?]] Yeah, the presidents have responsibilities in the judicial administration, and it's the presidents that have... [[They're judges, they're adjudicating.]] Of course, the Presidents rule - and very well that they rule - but the Minister of Justice exercises supervision over the judicial administration. It's not like the Minister of Justice or any politician can affect a judge. If anyone can influence a judge, then someone who is close, who can invite you to the office, say that it would be good for the career of the judge or your judge to make the ruling one way or another, not the Minister of Justice, who is far away and 99% of the cases have no idea. [[We're talking about this 1% case.]] He's not interested in them. [[Wroclaw.]] Therefore, we are building a barrier between judges and presidents. The presidents are in charge of the administration. The judges are responsible for the ruling. That's it, period. There shouldn't be any danger here. If you think it's different, let's see what's really going on in this bill. You didn't show them in those speeches, you didn't show them before. Therefore, there are no specifics, only empty slogans that you are able to preach because you have no substantive arguments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u434	The applicant's representative is asking for the floor, right? Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, on behalf of the applicants. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u435	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the election campaign, we promised to reform the justice system. [[Applause]] We promised, because 50%, 70%, 90%. Poles... [[Lenin reform.]] ...depending on what aspect is examined, he critically speaks about Polish courts. That's a commitment we're keeping. If there are any comments, we can discuss details, but we will not allow reform to be torpedoed. I ask the High House to allow us to continue our work on this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u436	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Here I am being asked to announce to you at this moment that, today, before the hour. 19 The Sejm is visited by members of the youth council of the municipality of Wiśniów, the district of Siedlecki [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] along with the gate and the guardians. Welcome. [[Bravo, Marshal!]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print No 1491, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. There were 189 votes against and 233 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the Sejm Bureau. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm has sent the bill to the Legislative Commission. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to refer the draft law from print No 1491 to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 399 voted against - 39, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the motion. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Maritime Fisheries. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1541. The question is raised by Mr Piotr Misilo, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u437	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants. Why in Art. 53 is the record that a ship owner who buys a new boat until he has to wait 24 months to benefit from the limits allocated to his other vessels? This is an absolutely unacceptable situation in a democratic country because it treats every shipowner, fisherman, entrepreneur like a potential criminal. I'd like to know the motives behind this change. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u438	Thank you, sir. This question will be answered by the Deputy Minister at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, Jerzy Materna. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u439	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The main objective of the proposed law is primarily to safeguard the environment and the ecosystem of the Baltic Sea, which is in terrible condition, which is confirmed annually by the decisions of the European Commission and the Council on the allocation of fishing quotas. The second element is to safeguard the proper and sustainable functioning of Polish fishermen, who are most severely affected by these changes, because any change in the fishing quota involves a reduction in fishing opportunities. These changes are therefore made according to changing circumstances and fishing situations. So the ministry's job is to do what we do. We want to protect Polish fishermen, and above all the smallest ones. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u440	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1541, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The vote was 401 against - 34, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Maritime Fisheries Act. We return to the consideration of item 5 of the agenda: First reading of the Senate draft law on amending the Act on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices. However, after an examination of the doubts as to the procedure for submitting a proposal to reject a draft law at first reading, I will put this proposal to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, has sent this draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for consideration. The question is raised by Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u441	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This is a very bad idea, because we will not get rid of the history of the Polish People's Republic, we will not get rid of the artistic reality of the Polish People's Republic. If we were to follow this line of thinking and this course of action, we would have to, for example. from Warsaw eliminate, destroy the monument of Alina Szapocznikow, which, as we know, was a member of PZPR. Jerzy Grotowski, whose monument stands in Opole, one of the world's greatest theatre artists, the theatre reformer, was also a member of the PZPR. In Opole there is a really interesting monument, an interesting sculpture. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Away with the commune!]] There is a statue of Wisława Szymborska in Kórnik. [[Where was she? Where was she? Where was Wisława Szymborska? Tell me.]] In Szczecin, what should be proud of Mr Joachim Brudziński, stands a monument, a sculpture of Hasiora [[♪ The bell ♪]] So, ladies and gentlemen, let's not eliminate our history, our art from our reality. Why are we such cleaners? Why are you doing this to us, and why are you manipulating history? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u442	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print No 1538, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 23 votes against 413 and 5 abstentions. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. We return to the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft Water Law Act. A request for rejection at first reading of this draft law was made in the discussion. I will put this motion to the vote. If this proposal is rejected, we will consider proposals to refer the bill to the committee. The question is raised by Marek Owa, a modern club. [[Voices from the hall: Hu, hu.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u443	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Water management needs to be changed, that's a fact. But instead of the reform of this system... You're not even proposing a revolution, you're giving us a tsunami. I am aware that flood risk management is one of the chapters of this law, but we should reduce the risk, not increase, as you do. By the way, you want to build another great PiS empire in the form of Polish Waters, take competence from regional or district governments. In addition, you are introducing a new PiS water tax in the form of fees for everything, whatever we use. [[What nonsense are you talking about? It's an art. 9 Directives.]] Ten times the water charge will increase... [[Rise in the courtroom, ring the bell, applause]] [[Voices from the hall: Hu, hu.]] ...for households, seven times the water levy for businesses will increase. There will be a rise in farmers' fees, power plants, everything. You'll see for yourself. [[Applause]] [[Don't talk nonsense.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u444	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr. Marshal, with a formal motion.]] [[In what mode?]] After the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print No 1529 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. Two Members abstained in voting 188 against - 249. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. Mr Mirosław Suchoń with a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u445	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal... [[I'd like to make a ticket.]] ...I have a request for you, however, to call Members to order when they make sounds referring to the names of Members. This is the behaviour of an absolutely unworthy Member and in this House such behaviour should absolutely not take place. On the part of the PiS Members, on the part of the Parliamentary benches that occupy the PiS, such sounds appear here. [[What sounds, sir?]] I beg you, Mr. Marshal, to react decisively in such a situation. [[But what sounds?]] It's just completely unacceptable. [[Applause]] [[But what?]] [[Mr. President, what sounds?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u446	I do not know how to qualify this conclusion from your statement. I do not accept this as a formal proposal. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[All you have to do is react.]] [[You can always impose penalties.]] We proceed with the decision to refer the bill to the committee. A number of proposals have been submitted, from which a single opinion has been sent to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry. I therefore propose that the Sejm refer the Government's draft Water Law to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry for consideration and that the remaining proposals be decided in the vote. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the vote on the referral of the bill to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the request for additional referral of the draft law in print No 1529 to the committee in question would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. The vote was 439, 1 against, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has extended this proposal to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. We proceed with the vote on the referral of the bill to the Committee on Public Finance. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the request for additional referral of the draft law contained in print No. 1529 to the Committee on Public Finance would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. The vote was 440, against - 1, no one abstained. The Sejm also referred the bill to this committee. We proceed with the vote on the referral of the draft law to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to refer the draft law contained in print 1529 to this committee, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 210 votes against - 229. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the referral of the draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. In this case, there's a question. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz club15, raises the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u447	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! Water is currently a production factor limiting the yield of plants. I am convinced of the possibility of developing good solutions for industry, local government, farmers, for all - for all Poles. I kindly ask the High House to support the motion to refer the bill to the agricultural committee as well. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u448	That was a question. Was that a request? We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of a request for additional referral to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development of the draft law No 1529 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 223 voted against - 218, 1 member abstained. I state that the Sejm has also addressed this project to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. [[Applause]] On the basis of the article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report to the committee by 4 July 2017. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law amending the Law on the legal protection of plant varieties. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft law, which is contained in print No 1574. In the first place, I will put to the vote the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety, as put forward in the discussion. The adoption of this proposal will render the proposals of the committee irrelevant. The question is raised by Mr Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u449	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Genetics is the cheapest, most effective [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] the means of production, significantly increasing the yield of plants. The mechanism used in the procedated act is incomplete, populist, directed at temporary media posts, and at the same time significantly reducing the competitiveness of Polish breeding companies. The Ministry in the explanatory memorandum gives examples of Western countries where the exchange of seed is 85%. In Poland, it's only 18%. I have a question for the rapporteur concerning the mechanism used in the law, which will increase the exchange of seed among Polish farmers and reduce the costs of purchasing seed. I kindly ask the High House to support the motion to reject the law because it threatens the existence of Polish breeding and is not a comprehensive solution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u450	The rapporteur of the committee is Robert Telus. Would you be so kind as to answer the Member's question?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u451	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Act regulates cooperation between breeding companies and farmers. At the moment, this cooperation was very bad and farmers often reported, as well as agricultural chambers and trade unions, to settle this issue. The point is that a farmer should pay once when he buys certified material and does not pay later every year, and this law regulates the matter. If the Member asks whether this mechanism will help - of course it will help, because firstly, farmers will buy certified seed, demand will increase when demand increases, supply will increase and this will also help breeding establishments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u452	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 56 votes against - 249, with 136 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the whole draft law, but before the vote, the question is asked by Mr Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u453	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Studies already carried out in the 1990s indicate that the share of biological progress in production is more than 50%, fertilization is only 20% and chemical protection is 15% . Thanks to biological progress, grain yields in Poland increased by 24% between 2000 and 2015 and in agricultural practice by 47%. As a result of biological progress, narrow-leaf tuber varieties have been developed, which have increased their yield by 130%. I have a question again to the rapporteur of the committee, which in the proposed law is applied solutions which increase the chances of Polish breeding in competition with foreign and which will reduce the horror rates that Polish farmers are currently paying for the purchase of seed. I ask you kindly to reject the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u454	Mr Robert Telus believes that an answer should be made, right? There you go, Mr Robert Telus, rapporteur for the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u455	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Once again, if supply increases and supply increases because farmers don't have to pay for the same seed every year, it will also increase... It's normal if there's demand, then there's supply. It's a normal thing. As far as seed is concerned, as far as breeding companies are concerned, we need to strengthen these companies so that we can have our seed. And that's very important. I am surprised that the Member, the chairman of the agricultural committee, cares only about the interests of the companies and not about the interests of the farmers. This bill takes care of the farmers' interests. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u456	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1574, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. The vote was 247, against 62, with 132 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Law on the legal protection of plant varieties. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the Law on specific rules for preparing for the implementation of investments in flood-proof structures. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1569. They also present two minority proposals that we will be voting on first. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. 2 (1) of the amended law, the applicant proposes a new definition of flood protection structures. This proposal brings together a second minority request. We will vote on them together. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals 1 and 2 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 174 voted against - 260, 5 Members abstained. I find that the Sejm has rejected its conclusions. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1569 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. Four Members abstained in voting 436, against - 1. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Law on Special Rules of Preparation for Investment in Flood Structures. We return to the examination of item 13. of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the Law on Assembly. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading and to join the second reading without delay. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion for rejection at first reading of the bill. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm will proceed with the examination of the application for immediate entry into the second reading of the bill. The question is raised by Mr Stanisław Nitras, the Civic Platform Club. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u457	Thank you, Marshal. I understand that this change of name is to distinguish my colleague from the region. On behalf of both of us, thank you. [[Talk to me. Don't be silly.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are restoring the legal status of this bill, which you changed on 13 December last year. And that's one of the reasons why we're putting this project together. In Poland, even for symbolic reasons, the Law of Assembly, concerning one of the basic human values, can not be done on 13 December. With this right we take away Mr Błaszczak's right to drive people away, we take away Mr Błaszczak's right to lock people away, we take away Mr Błaszczak's right to decide which demonstration is right and which one is not. Minister Błaszczak should resign after yesterday. There's no honor. He didn't resign. Therefore, I ask from this place, especially President Kaczyński, to join the courageous activist PiS from Białystok and say: Mariusz, go home! [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mariusz, go home! [[Applause]] [[Don't yell.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u458	Thank you very much. Mr Nitras, of course, took the floor. Excuse me, sir, for changing your name. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u459	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask if it is true that there is not a single social organisation that would support the project of the so-called organisation. cyclical gatherings, because that's what this is all about. [[That's not true.]] We know that there wasn't a single organization at the committee meeting that would support that. [[That's not true.]] Minister, one question in this regard. [[Is this at the committee meeting or in Poland?]] Is it possible to argue that this law was applied only to favour one political group, the PiS? Is it possible to make such a statement? [[No.]] That is also what I would like to ask your representative of the applicants. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u460	Thank you very much. [[Get up and talk.]] [[There was a question.]] He's asking for the floor... [[Andrzej Halicki.]] ...the representative of the applicants, Mr Andrzej Halicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u461	Yes, Mr. Marshal, there was a question, so you have to answer it. I understand I have unlimited time in accordance with the regulations. [[Yeah, according to the rules.]] [[No, no...]] Okay, it's gonna be brief. A fundamental thing, you restrict the right to assembly, a fundamental civil right, creating a definition of a cyclical assembly. [[That's not true.]] Assembly, which has a vague definition. Sejm Analysis Office - remind you, the office which in November Ub. R. from this, among others. the Court of Justice has held that the amendment to the July 2015 Act is of an unconstitutional nature and recommended that this paragraph be deleted and that the resolution of the July 2015 Act be re-established. You've got it in black and white. Yesterday there was a discussion about the cover-up of murders in the precinct, today it is possible for you to withdraw from the bill, which gives monopoly to party and government power, i.e. the voivodeships, to decide which assemblies are right and which are not. For two years there have been no conflicts under the July 2015 Act, which has been adopted and functioning, and after your amendment you have two decisions touched by the courts and conflicts that have occurred as a result of the bubble that you have passed. [[Example.]] Get out of these bad records, you still have a chance, because in a moment we'll all really live in the Polish People's Republic. Kiszczak, Błaszczak - three letters of difference. Think about it. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u462	The Minister of the Interior and Administration Mariusz Błaszczak asks for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u463	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Mariusz, go home.]] There really weren't any problems... [[Mariusz, come back.]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] ...until a group of people showed up trying to take away other people's ability to manifest. [[Applause]] [[Exactly. And prayers.]] And this group of people is connected to you, with total opposition is connected. You're the ones who're trying to ban other people's rights of demonstration... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Think about what you're saying.]] ...right to manifest... [[Yes, sir.]] ...right to prayer. You're trying to stop it. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]] [[Yes, sir.]] The European Court of Human Rights has made itself clear. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform chant: To resign! Dismissed! Dismissed!]] Clearly, this is a civil right that people associated with you are trying to violate, take away from others. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Pick up the others. We will not allow democracy in Poland to be restricted. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the hall: Thieves!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u464	In this hot debate, I would like to inform you that a group of children and young people is listening to the discussion. [[Joy in the Chamber]] From Elementary School 1 of Biłgoraj, so I would ask. [[Applause]] We proceed with the vote on the motion for rejection. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print 1496 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 240 voted against - 187, with 13 abstentions. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected... excuse me, the Sejm's motion has been accepted. Yes, of course. We are returning to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on the Restitution of National Cultural Goods. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On this item, we will vote on the proposal to reject the Senate's amendments. In the first amendment to Article. 3 (1) (a) Point 2 of the Senate proposes a legislative change. This amendment is combined with the 3rd amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1 and 3, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. 5 votes against - 427, 3 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has accepted the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. 3 (1) (a) Point 2 (3) of the Senate proposes that the Minister responsible for Cultural Affairs and the Protection of National Heritage should also appear in proceedings for tax offences. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. Two Members voted against - 437, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Senate proposes to amend its referral. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 7th Senate proposes an editorial change. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. paragraph 34a. The 4th Senate Museums Act proposes to indicate the legal basis for determining the remuneration. This amendment is combined with the 7th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 6 and 7, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We proceed with the examination of item 16 on the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law amending the law on the financing of the common agricultural policy (prints No 1481 and 1503) - third reading. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of draft Print Act No 1481 without amendments. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1481, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The vote was 435 against - 3 nobody abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the law on the financing of the common agricultural policy. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Commission's draft law amending the agricultural tax law and the Act on local taxes and charges (prints no. 1232 and 1507) - third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1507. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 1507, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The vote was 436 against - 2 and no one abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Agricultural Tax Act, the Local Tax Act and the Forest Tax Act. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report from the Commission for Energy and the Treasury and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the Government's draft law amending the Geological and Mining Law and some other laws (prints No. 1480, 1493 and 1493-A) - third reading. I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u465	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At its 41st meeting on 10 May, the Sejm again referred the draft law contained in print No 1493 to the Commission for Energy and the Treasury and the Committee for the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry in order to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. I would remind you that two amendments were tabled at second reading. The committees recommend that amendments 1 and 2 be adopted. 1. The amendment consists in returning to the Government's submission, the second amendment being editorial and orderly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u466	I would remind you that the committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print No 1493. We will first vote on the amendments tabled just now. In the first amendment to Article. 49y Geological and mining law applicants propose a new wording of the added paragraph. 9. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 3 the draft law amending the applicant proposes a new wording of point 2. The committees are asking for an amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Before voting on the whole draft law, Members raised questions. Member Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u467	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This is a very important law on the energy security of our country. Each tonne of oil extracted from the bottom of the Baltic Sea increases the security of the Republic in this area, and therefore all the more important are the obligations which have been imposed in this law on companies. Unfortunately, in the course of the work on the Law we did not get reliable information about the costs of Polish companies, and in particular one which is very active in this regard. I ask you to answer that question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u468	To whom is the question addressed? The government. The government is responding. Deputy Minister of Environment and the main geologist of the country Mr Mariusz Orion Jędrysek. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u469	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The burden will hardly change, as in practice there is already insurance for various pollutants, etc. So that there are in practice no changes, no greater burdens on the economy. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Room voice: Bravo, Professor.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u470	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, High House, but I missed another Member. Krzysztof Sitarski, the Kukiz club15, asks a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u471	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Working in the Committee on Energy and the Treasury, we attach great importance to strengthening Polish companies in the positions of world and European champions and leaders. Poland is involved in the extraction, processing, distribution of hydrocarbons. My question concerns, among other things: newly created and present companies and involvement in mining assets. Here I have a question to the representative of the Ministry of Environment: What are the plans of the Polish government to extract hydrocarbons in the Baltic Sea basin and is the investment in the Baltic deposit very important from the point of view of energy security of the country? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u472	Minister Mariusz Orion Jędrysek will be happy to answer. I just understand you're not going to describe the whole problem. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u473	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Baltic Sea is quite forward-looking, both in terms of gas and oil, we have quite good oil above all, we also have condensate and there are good prospects in my opinion, also in terms of conventional gas. [[Hydrocarbons.]] On the other hand, production is relatively small, it can be said that there is little in relation to the current Polish needs, but it is important from the point of view of one of the plants that you mentioned. [[Which one?]] So that's it. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u474	Thank you very much. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1493, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 435 voted in favour, no one voted against, one Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Geological and Mining Law and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Local Government and Regional Policy on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Local Workers (prints 1324 and 1414) - vote. The Commission requests that the draft law contained in print No 1324 be rejected. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has submitted a draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for re-examination. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the committee's motion to reject the draft law contained in print No. 1324, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The vote was 43, against 267, with 127 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the application and thus, in accordance with Article. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, he referred the bill to the committees in question. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Law Code of Administrative Procedure (print No 1499) - continuation. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Questions are raised by Members. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u475	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Question for the rapporteur. The point is how often there are cases where administrative proceedings are faced where, due to the death of the parties, the proceedings cannot be terminated, there is a suspension, and so for a good cause, this suspension may continue indefinitely. Did the applicants analyze how often such cases occur? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u476	Please. The question is... [[To the rapporteur.]] Mr Raś asks questions or answers? [[No, no. Answering.]] Mr Ireneusz Raś, on behalf of the applicants, gives an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u477	Mr. Marshal! I also wanted to speak before the verdict of the Seym.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u478	From what verdict?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u479	The decision of the Sejm, the High Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u480	Oh, there you go. As an applicant, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u481	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Yes, I am prepared for this question, but I would like to say that bad practice is when we talk about substantive issues, about the conclusions of Polish authorities, which have a problem with the fact that we are cutting this discussion at the first reading stage. Our initiative, the Civic Platform, comes from numerous votes of the inhabitants that they cannot regulate the legal status of their property, because certain administrative matters are being temporarily suspended. Here's what I'm going to say: in the city of Cracow itself, on the total number of administrative cases at the level of about 440 cases, those that are suspended... on the total number of 440 cases 235 is suspended, ladies and gentlemen. Some of these cases are suspended indefinitely because there is no such deadline. There's a time limit in the Civil Procedure Code, and we've proposed to move it -- three-year-old, who serves in the courts. Since 2001, some cases in Krakow have been suspended, people cannot buy their apartments from the city, and you do not want to continue working on it. I think this is a bad practice. You should not just because the Members of the Civic Platform report this, finish at the first reading stage. I sent this information to the Parliamentary Office of the Member who represented Law and Justice in the discussion, and I also sent information that the Polish City Association reported this during the work on a major amendment of the Polish Ministry of Justice. And you didn't take that into account. It's a very bad practice. If you can change that decision, let's work on it, let's talk on the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u482	Any questions to the government? That's all. [[He answered the question.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print No 1499 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 258 voted against 179 and 2 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the motion. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Labour Code Act (print No 1498) - continuation. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. The question is raised by Ms Urszula Pasławska, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u483	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! First of all, I wanted to appeal to my colleagues from PiS not only as a politician, but also as a mother, that you should not give up your work on the important, necessary law that Polish People's Party has prepared, supported by all opposition clubs, a law: an hour for the family, assuming that the parent will be able to exercise the right to work time shortened by 1 hour so that he can spend this time with his child. You know very well that according to all rankings Poles are considered one of the most busy groups in Europe, I think the OECD report speaks of a second place in Europe. [[It's been eight years.]] Dear Prime Minister, Prime Minister! You say the opposition is preparing political projects. This is a substantive project and very much needed. I'm asking you so we can focus. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and talk about working time in Poland so that we can also work on other substantive programs for the family. Because pro-family policies are not created by one initiative, which PSL has supported... [[Voice from the room: 8 years!]] ...but with many initiatives and for many, many years. [[Time.]] That is what I ask of my colleagues in Law and Justice. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u484	Thank you. At the moment, the Deputy Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Stanisław Szwed, is asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u485	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Madame, this project is a bad project that is harmful to women and discriminates against women. The cost of this change for employers is from PLN 2.5 billion to PLN 5 billion. Law and Justice is implementing a very good programme of family policy. We have a good parental leave, we have a 500+ family programme and we are introducing a "Milch+" programme that implements the aspirations of women who are on the labour market. This project is bad, it's bad, and that's why we're not asking for it to continue. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u486	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print No. 1498 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 266 voted against - 156, 17 Members abstained. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the law on local government and some other laws (print No 1500) - continuation. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for consideration. Questions are raised by Members. Member Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u487	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to address the question to the Member of the applicant's representative. The project concerns a resolution initiative at the level of the local government. I would like to ask, Mr President, how this legislative initiative works today, whether it is a common phenomenon or whether this possibility is introduced by municipalities. That's one thing. The second point, on the other hand, is how this would work in practice. Whether citizens' organisations or individual groups of residents or social organisations could submit draft resolutions at local government level, projects that concern e.g. accomplishing the tasks of the local government? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u488	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u489	Mr. Marshal! Question for government and self-government lovers on the right side of the room. Why do you not want the residents to have the right to an initiative of resolution written simply in local laws? After all, this project simply extends the influence of citizens on the functioning of self-government and self-governments, municipalities, powiats and voivodships. And you are doing this as a party, which, even recently, with the argument of extending the influence of citizens on the functioning of self-government, wanted to change the system of Warsaw. This is an apolitical and constructive proposal, which is what you say you want from the opposition. After all, this is not on your part a demonstration of hypocrisy? It is, unfortunately, double - towards self-government and against opposition. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's proof that in this courtroom, Minister Błaszczak, it's only the power of the PiS. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: The opposition is.]] [[Okay, you're reading other people's letters.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u490	Thank you very much. The first question was addressed to the representative of the applicants, who is Marek Owa. There you go. [[Again?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u491	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, there are no formal legal obstacles today, but in order to benefit from the citizens' initiative of resolution, it needs to be made changes in the statute. This amendment makes it possible to avoid the process in the case of 2,5 000 by one change in the law. local governments, because today only more than 300 local governments have a citizens' initiative of resolution written into their statutes. You will not have to verify these statutes, approve, the Government Legislative Center will simply have much less work. One amendment solves the problem, and in fact gives residents the right to submit their projects, their proposals for carrying out statutory tasks. I was convinced, when preparing this bill on behalf of the Modern, that there would be full agreement around it, because this project does not take anything away from anyone, it does not restrict any authority, it does not impose anything on anyone. It only extends the circle of legislators, who have the right to submit their proposals to the competent authorities, gives influence to those who are not represented in the councils of municipalities, powiats or seymies of voivodships. Urban movements have been going on about this demand for a long time, citizens are going on and they often talk about it. Ladies and gentlemen! At one of the last Parliamentary Group meetings. The defence of the Polish Self-Government was clearly expressed by the Members in favour of this bill. Mr Piotr Zgorzelski, chairman of this team, asked me to read the dissertation addressed to the Marshal on this matter: Parliamentary Group on the subject. The defence of Polish Self-government expresses its support for the bill submitted on the amendment of the law on local government, district government and local government. The citizens' initiative gives residents of municipalities, powiats, local governments and voivodships an important tool to participate in the daily life of local and regional communities. Although there are currently no legal obstacles to this issue being regulated in the statutes of individual local government units, the introduction of appropriate amendments to the law will, however, contribute to its dissemination and expansion of the group of entities which have a resolution initiative. The citizens' resolution initiative will significantly increase the participation of residents, who will not only be able to decide their affairs on the day of the election, the fate of small homelands. Therefore, it is worth introducing it as mandatory. [[Game in the O.R.]] You're quite loud, so I'm not going to read the entire text of this bill... [[No, read the whole thing.]] ...but I will say one thing: this law really shows the attitude of individual Members towards citizens. If anyone objects to this bill, it makes it clear where he has a citizen. Mr. Marshal, thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u492	Thank you, sir. I can only assure you that if the Sejm decides to continue working on the bill, we will make sure that the work on it is done fairly in the relevant committees. Deputy Minister of Interior and Administration Sebastian Gwałek will answer the second question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u493	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Even from this point of view, it has been said that such initiatives can already be taken, and that nothing prevents them from doing so. Changes in statutes are completely non-formalised. This project introduces a specific confusing procedure. It actually looks like a disregard for self-government. Self-government is to ensure these initiatives in its statutes. If he's just gonna say that, that's the need, he can do it, but apparently there isn't, since there's so little interest. We don't see the need for that. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] [[I am the applicant, so I must refer to the Minister's false statements.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u494	No, no, no... [[Mr Marshal, according to the Rules of Procedure, the applicant has the right to speak on every subject, also to refer to the Minister's voice.]] Mr... [[It's by the book.]] [[Sit down. How many times can you talk?]] Give me, show me the rule book, but that's later, because right now, sir... [[Mr Marshal, the applicant has the right to speak at every stage of the bill's process.]] [[Don't argue, sit down.]] On behalf of the applicants, Mr Marek Owa wishes to speak. [[But why?]] You've already taken the floor, sir. The minister's statement didn't concern you, it didn't refer to your statement, so I can't accept it as a correction. [[But it was about the bill...]] [[How's that...]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill in print No 1500 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 227 voted against 209 and no one abstained. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We proceed with the examination of item 23. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the amendment of the employment promotion law and labour market institutions and some other laws (print No 1494) - continuation. At the 41st meeting, a request was made to refer this draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in addition. The proposal adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm is that the draft be sent to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. If I do not hear any objections, I will believe that the Sejm's proposal, as assessed by the Sejm Bureau, has been accepted and that I will put the motion for additional referral to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the vote on the request for further referral. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to refer the draft law contained in print No 1494 to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. There were 79 votes against, 361, and two Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. On the basis of the article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 20 June 2017. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare and certain other laws (Prints No. 1319, 1488 and 1488-A) - third reading. I ask Mr Tadeusz Dziuba to present an additional report.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u495	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In a moment we will vote on the amendment of the Law on healthcare provision of major importance. It amends the rules on... [[The Middle Ages brings in.]] ...refund, introducing a new procedure rightly called emergency access to drug technology... [[The Middle Ages brings in.]] ...and, by the way, rationalizes the National Health Fund's expenses. 18 amendments were tabled at second reading and one of them was later withdrawn. We will therefore vote on 17 amendments. The Commission recommends accepting 13 of them and rejecting four... [[So?]] ...and we will also vote on two minority proposals, which, moreover, coincide with the amendments recommended for rejection. Just briefly, to summarize the meaning of the new rules: e.g. they introduce a more precise identification of the parties to the decision... [[Mr. Marshal...]] ...reimbursement of costs in the context of emergency access to drug technology harmonises the assessment criteria for medicines, the criteria for which the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification will be required to apply, clarify the amount of the refund so that the refund prices for emergency access to drug technology and system refund are identical. They also introduce the principle that an assessment of the appropriateness of the refund will apply not to individual medicines, but to so-called medicines. active substances. I call for a vote in accordance with the recommendation of the Health Committee. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u496	Thank you. I would remind you that the committee is asking for the adoption of a draft law from print No 1488. The Commission also puts forward the conclusions of the minorities mentioned and in the additional report of the amendments and we will vote on them first. Amendments 1 to 9 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act... [[But I think it's a formal conclusion.]] ...with amendments to the Law on public-funded healthcare provision. [[Formal conclusion!]] In the first amendment, applicants propose not to amend Article. 31s. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Marek Hok, the Civic Platform Club. [[But the conclusion is formal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u497	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment concerns the Transparency Council. It is a council that acts in front of the President of the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technology and Tarification. As the name suggests, it is the Transparency Council, and so far it has been the case that the Minister has appointed this Council, but there have been laws that have said under which conditions its member may be revoked. This change, which is being proposed, causes the Minister to receive great weapons in the form of selecting and releasing members of the Transparency Council. I therefore have a question for the Minister how he will assess the transparency of these major authorities in terms of health services. Is this supposed to be transparency considered transparent by the Minister, or is it the one that has so far been applied in accordance with the law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u498	The question is to the government, right? Minister Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, Secretary of State at the Ministry, is ready to respond. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u499	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! The members of the Transparency Board shall be appointed by the Minister responsible, and the Minister shall also withdraw at the specific request of the authorities which have requested the appointment of those members. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u500	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 172 votes against and 256 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. I have information that there is a formal request made by Mrs Monica Wielichowska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u501	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I wanted to ask your marshal and I asked him in writing to welcome a group of women representing the black protest, the nationwide women's strike, the Coalition I have the Law. [[Applause]] Welcome. Mr. Marshal, it's a shame you didn't do this. There's a sovereign at the gallery who's gonna be listening to this bill right now, and... [[Shame on you, Marshal, shame on you!]] ...watched how Law and Justice takes away, restricts women's freedom in Poland. Thank you very much, very cordially welcome on behalf of the High House. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u502	This is above all not a formal proposal, Madam President. I believe you abused the procedure here. Second, the black protest of women... [[Marshal, who's at the gallery?]] ...everyone has the right to express their views, but it's hard to compare... [[Would you mind welcoming me?]] [[No!]] ...with primary school, ladies and gentlemen. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] But if you wish, I will not greet anyone again, ladies and gentlemen, and please accept that. [[Voice from the room: But everyone!]] In the second amendment, applicants propose to maintain the existing wording in Article. 31sa and delete Article. 12 draft amending act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Marek Hok, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u503	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a similar point, which this time concerns the appointment of a tariff agency. It is a Tarification Council, which has so far also been set up and cancelled at the request of the President of the Health Technology Assessment Agency. This change, which you are proposing, gives again excessive, unjustified possibilities for the Minister to dismiss these members. The second point is that this proposal also abolishes the provision that healthcare providers, i.e. representatives of hospitals and other medical entities, have delegated three of their representatives. This record has been deleted. What are you afraid of, Mr. Minister, not wanting to talk to the employers as well? A question similar to the first one: What are you afraid of? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u504	No further questions? We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. There were 166 votes against, 264 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. In Article 9, the following paragraph is added: 31t. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u505	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to draw attention to one thing. We are voting on a very important law which definitely limits women's rights in Poland. This bill is presented and proposed by Minister Radziwiłł, who is not here today. The Resort is represented by the Deputy Minister... [[So what?]] Undersecretary of State. [[Voices from the room: Secretary! Secretary!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing serious matters, and you are ignoring these issues. We see more Radziwiłła in churches and ideologies than in work and substantive discussion. [[Applause]] There can be no rules that, with such an important bill, the Minister of Health simply ignores it, simply does not come. Ladies, pay attention to this and speak loudly. And I'm gonna tell you from here before I make a substantive point on the next amendment: we're gonna go back to power and we're gonna make things right about the point. [[Touchdown, fun in the hall, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u506	Mr President, first of all, this was not a question, so that I would very much ask you to follow some rules. And secondly, I inform the High House that the government has authorized the Government to act at this point and present the position of the Government and the Ministry of State... [[So what? And Radziwł is? There isn't. And that's a fact.]] ...in the Ministry of Health, Mrs. Józef Szczurek-Żelazko. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. The vote was 267, against - 172, with two abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose among others. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 47d paragraph. 2 so that this provision concerns a further authorisation to cover the costs of the medicine as part of emergency access to the drug technology for the same recipient. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 270 votes against - 169 Members, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment, applicants propose among others. the new wording of the introduction to the calculation in Article. 47e paragraph. 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The vote was 261 against 172 and no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th Amendment, applicants propose among others. the new wording of paragraph. 3 and the addition of paragraph 3. 6 and 7 in Articles 6 and 7 47f. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 266 voted against 174, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 47g of the applicant by adding paragraph. 2 propose a provision setting minimum requirements for a negative decision. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 258 voted against - 172, 4 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 47i. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 266 voted against - 171, 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th amendment, applicants propose among others. do not add an article. 137a. This amendment is combined with the 16th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 9 and 16 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The vote was 267, against - 171, with one abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendments. Amendments 10 and 11 and 1 of the minority proposal were tabled in Article. 2 draft amending act containing amendments to the Pharmaceutical Law Act. In the 10th Amendment and the same 1st and 2nd Minority Proposal, applicants propose not to add paragraph. Article 1a 23a and delete Article. 13 draft amending act. We will vote on these proposals together. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Here are the questions. The question is raised by Monika Wielichowska, the Obyttel Platform Club. [[Voice from the room: Please welcome.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u507	EllaOne in a collision with an anti-feminine PiS is a lie without a prescription. You lie when you say it's... [[Don't read it. Just say something out of your head. One!]] ...an early-opportunity tablet. You lie when you say teenage girls take her with their hands like candy. You lie when you say this method of contraception is harmful to your health. And riding on a lie, using the majority of the Seym, you take away women's right to decide for yourselves. The lie has short legs because ellaOne is safe and does not work abortionally. Teenagers don't take her with their hands. It is also a big expense, because the cost of one tablet is approx. 130 PLN. More knowledge, ladies and gentlemen, and less ideology. Perhaps, Mr Kaczyński, you will win this battle... [[Please respectfully, my fellow Member.]] ...but I promise you, you will lose the war. You're gonna lose to women because women didn't put their umbrellas on. [[Brain folds.]] You create the fumes of absurdity... [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice hit desktops]] ...because when a woman wants to have access to the tablet the day after, she'll have to go to the doctor the day before. It's gonna crash. [[♪ The bell ♪]] With a clause of conscience: first at the doctor, then at the pharmacy...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u508	Thank you, Member. Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u509	...and in the end, it'll be too late because he's going to have an illegal abortion...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u510	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u511	...and you're gonna put your hand on it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u512	Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz, 15, has the floor. I'd just like to ask questions... [[Please respond, Marshal, to this behavior. What's all this juggling?]] It's not about running polemics, and it's like this. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u513	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! To cool this hysterical atmosphere a little bit... [[What's that?]] ...I would like to point out from myself at this particular point in the direction of this amendment. It is about removing the most controversial entry in this project, which actually put a smokescreen over the much more important aspects of this law, for example on the topic of a market worth PLN 11 billion, on which the powers of the health minister are given without limit. So I have a question for the government: What does the writing of this article have to do with the main message of this project? So the simple question is: What does the pill have to do with, for example, rescue access to drug technologies? I don't think this is the relationship. [[Of course not.]] What does that have to do with anything? [[♪ The bell ♪]] with a partial drug refund? He doesn't have that connection either. That's why it's mine...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u514	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u515	... question: Does this article have to do with the entire bill? [[Applause]] [[It's just ideological.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u516	Thank you very much. Mrs Monica Rosa, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u517	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! As representatives of the black protest were heard yesterday without allowing them to speak at the Health Committee, I would like to read a few words that have been addressed to you Members, Members and Members. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Marshal, is that a question?]] And I ask you very much to respect these words. These are the citizens of the Republic of Poland. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice hit desktops]] [[Mr. Marshal, what is this?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u518	Madam, ask the question, do not make any statements. [[Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u519	That is why a few questions have been asked to your fellow Members. Why are you stripping us of birth control? Because of you, we're gonna have to stop unwanted pregnancy in places that aren't hospitals. Why do you sentence teenagers and chronically ill women to unwanted pregnancies that threaten their health and life? Don't create a black market for contraception. Listen to the voices... [[Voice from the room: Murderer!]] ... 54% a society that is in favour of emergency contraception being available. [[That's not a question.]] Open your eyes for long term appointments to doctors. [[Where's the question?]] [[Calm down.]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice hit desktops]] Trust in the wisdom and wisdom of Polish women and vote against. A representative of the black protest. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Murderer! Murderer!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u520	Thank you, Member. Mrs Joanna Kopcińska, Club Law and Justice, has the floor. Just, ladies and gentlemen, please don't exalt yourself. We are discussing an amendment and a minority proposal. Actually, I remind you, we're asking questions. There you go. [[We're asking for some peace.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u521	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thanks to this regulation, your doctor will be able to assess whether the medicine will have negative effects on your health. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[This is assessed by the European Commission.]] You're saying absolutely untrue because I want to say that you know very well that it's the doctor's job to assess whether the drug is safe or not. [[Applause]] [[You're gonna lose this.]] Therefore, in April 2015 the then Secretary of Health in the Government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party... [[You lose it, you lose it.]] ...says that if the European Commission decides that emergency contraception will be available in Poland without a prescription, then Poland will be opposed. That is not enough, that is how you voted at the meeting of the European Agency for Foreign Affairs. Drugs. [[Applause]] [[So what? So what? Hypocrites.]] And it was not until April 2015 that there was a change. Did the election calendar decide? Because you know very well that patient safety is the most important thing. [[Married calendar.]] [[It's a marriage calendar.]] The election calendar changed those decisions. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u522	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Jan Klaviter, a non-member Member. There you go. [[Voice from the room: No...]] [[I'm a birth control specialist.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u523	Mr. Marshal! Is it true that the PO-PSL government lied to the public, claiming that it was made by the European Commission... [[Right. You don't even have to finish.]] ...forced to abolish the prescription for the tablet Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u524	Is the Minister ready to respond? There you go. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, will speak. [[Against women's rights, too?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u525	Dear Marshal, Dear Members, I'm answering the question of why ellaOne's pill is prescription. [[Because that's what the piss guys want.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We want to harmonise the use of contraceptives in the same way. As you all know... [[No, because you want to take us back to the Middle Ages.]] ...all contraceptives are prescribed. Here, the honourable Member has explained in very detail the merits of such a decision. I just want to stress that the ellaOne tablet contains many times higher hormonal doses, which can very adversely affect especially the young body than commonly used contraceptives. There was a question about the validity of the amendment concerning the ellaOne tablet in this draft law. Ladies and gentlemen! The Act on public-funded benefits changes many different solutions, among others. we have introduced the issue in this solution also concerning the use of ellaOne tablets. Such practices are common... [[You're lying.]] ...and very often used in the revision of various legal acts. That's it. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[That's not true.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Sing it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u526	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, please don't shout. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment and the 1st and 2nd minority proposals would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 174 voted against 256 and 4 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the proposals. In the 11th amendment, applicants propose to maintain the existing wording of paragraph. Article 1 91. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Jerzy Kozłowski, a Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u527	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The aim of this amendment is to protect pharmaceutical technicians from losing their professional rights. As it is a really large group of employees, i.e. About 40,000. please, please, I am asking the High House to accept this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u528	Mr Mark Hok, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u529	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment is an amendment prepared by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. This amendment restores the working and functioning of pharmaceutical technicians who were to be deleted in the Act. After such a very controversial and fatal pharmacy bill for the pharmacist, you were still trying to get tens of thousands of pharmaceutical technicians out of the labour market. This amendment serves that purpose. Back to the previous amendment, this tablet is not early-resistant. It is used throughout Europe without a prescription, and the only country in which it is issued on prescription is, of course, Hungary. [[Applause]] [[Why, did you take it?]] [[Don't lie to me!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u530	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u531	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wonder why you have such a need to limit the rights of women in Poland. [[To protect the rights of the child.]] I wonder why your patriarchal way of thinking about women is so primitive. Give women the right to decide about themselves. [[No!]] The right to freedom is an inalienable right. You're breaking women's rights. Why are you doing this? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u532	Member Tomasz Latos, Law and Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u533	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are currently discussing an amendment on matters related to the functioning of pharmaceutical technicians. [[Exactly.]] And it must be made clear that a similar amendment to the one made by the Civic Platform club was also made by the Law and Justice Club. We discussed this at the committee meeting quite extensively. There are no risks that you have been talking about here, but we have found that it is absolutely clear that it does not arouse any unnecessary emotions, that we will report an amendment that will respond to those voices voiced by the environment of pharmaceutical technicians. It was the same with previous amendments - I am surprised that you did not support them - which will make it more transparent than the original submission as regards issues related to the refund of medicines. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the other hand, with regard to these rights-related and rights-receiving votes, I would like to point out that the tablet was not introduced until April 2015.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u534	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u535	Somehow earlier, the Civic Platform with PSL did not propose a change in this case. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u536	Thank you very much, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. The vote was 431, against - 3, with 6 abstentions. What a match, ladies and gentlemen. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 12 to 15 were tabled in Article. 3 draft amending act containing amendments to the Refund Act on medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices. In the 12th amendment, the applicants propose to maintain the existing wording of the Article. 11. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unsubstantiatedness of Amendment 13. Questions are raised by Members. Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u537	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have heard here from the committee's representative that this is a law that gives us first and foremost rescue access to medicines. In fact, under the coat of this very nice name is introduced for our patients, firstly, breaking, taking away women, and not only women, the right to freedom, to choose, secondly, problems with access when it comes to the work of pharmaceutical technicians, and thirdly, there are increases in the price of medicines, which include. you can block, if you accept, I very much ask the High House, the amendment of the Civic Platform that we have tabled at the moment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u538	There you go. Mrs Monica Rosa, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u539	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Why didn't they first want to let the representatives of the black protesters into the Sejm? [[What does that have to do with the refund decision?]] Why were they told when they were finally let in that they couldn't take cell phones with them? After the fight, they took their cell phones, and their purses were taken away. [[But the question is to get to the point.]] Why did they get an additional guard who told them, "Don't give signs to the Members?" [[Rosa, get to the point.]] Why were they forbidden to clap at the gallery? The answer is one because you're afraid of women. The PiS is afraid of women. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u540	It really was a question, but completely not about it. [[Kara!]] We'll proceed with the vote. [[5,000.!]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote - 193 against - 226 - abstained - 12. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 13th amendment, applicants propose among others. repeal point 1 of Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Questions are raised by Members. Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u541	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal, the fact that you don't want to tell the girls in the black protest is good morning to you. [[Oh, my gosh, we're gonna be listening here right now.]] [[Calm down, woman.]] On behalf of this part, I say, hi, girls. The fact that you don't let them into the Sejm - we'll manage, we'll bring them in. The fact that you're taking their voice off the committee - we can handle it, we're their voice. But I have a question for your marshal: could you tell the marshal to stop banging his paws on the benches when we talk about women's rights? [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice hit desktops]] I would very much ask you not to piss your paws on the benches when we talk about women's rights. [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u542	Indeed, 13. the amendment is complex in substance, but it does not concern... The Member raised the question entirely next to it. [[Everything depends on the amount of intelligence.]] But good morning, ladies. [[Better late than never.]] [[Bravo!]] Let me remind you that the committee is asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? I didn't even vote myself. 434 Members voted. The vote - 263, against - 164, abstained - 7. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 14th amendment to the article. 39 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 3 and the addition of paragraph 3. 3a-3g. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Questions are raised by Members. Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u543	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Judging by the exaltation of Members of Law and Justice, especially Mrs Pavłowicz, this law does not concern health, this law concerns ideology and that is indeed the case. We are discussing what vision we want here. Do we want such a vision of a country where a citizen is an subject and can decide whether he is a woman or a man? Do we want a country where power treats citizens as a dark people and imposes ideology on them? Oligarch of Torun imposed ideology on you, you accepted it, but you have no right to impose it on citizens, you have no moral right to do so. Why are you trying to impose the ideology of your Oligarch from Torun? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u544	Mr President, I would like to point out to you that you are asking a question not on the subject. The question is the paragraph. 3 and 4 amendments, not ideological issues. [[But, Marshal, he's talking!]] Mr Andrzej Halicki, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u545	Mr. Marshal! The question has already been asked why PiS is scared and doesn't like women. You may also ignore Mr Arłukowicz's question and, in principle, ask him to behave culturally. You yourselves, ladies, are witnessing to yourselves with this banging on your desks. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Andrew!]] But the question is right - to a woman, to a minister. Why don't you PiS women really like and respect yourselves? [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u546	The question is asked by Mr Tomasz Latos, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u547	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I also have a question for the Minister. Minister, is it not so that this law in ninety-six percent is devoted to emergency access to drug technologies and that for a good cause during the work on this law, whether in committee or in second reading, or even at the moment it can be said with regret that it does not really matter much to most people... [[Because the drug bill doesn't fit in, it was your mistake!]] ...a large part of the people in this House, especially the ones that are the loudest, and instead of dealing with the cases that patients are asking for, on which they come to the parliamentary offices, the state is trying to politically politicise this discussion. [[Applause]] [[Then take care of these things, not women.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u548	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that this amendment concerns the circumstances relating to the examination of the appropriateness of granting a refund, so your questions are, to say the least, the use of the formula of questions to articulate your... [[They're starting over again.]] ...let's say, not always understandable appeals. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. In favour - 259, against - 173, six Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 15th amendment to the article. 40 applicants propose a new wording of the introduction into the calculation in paragraph. 1 and the addition of paragraph 1. 3, 6, as well as the addition of a transitional provision. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Piotr Kalet, club Law and Justice. Please, Mr. Piotr Kaleta. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u549	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to Mr Halicki's statement, I would like to ask Members, colleagues from the Law and Justice... [[Which question?]] ...is it true that we have this higher degree that we're not talking about... [[Voice from the room: Not on the subject!]] ...that we don't like women. We love Polish women, especially the unborn women. [[Applause]] [[In Bydgoszcz, especially. Councilman from Bydgoszcz in particular!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u550	Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club, has the floor. Mrs Lubnauer. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I would like to inform you that you have the floor of Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u551	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! At first, someone might be illusioned that this is about women's health, that this is what Law and Justice are all about, but after Minister Radziwiłł said that he would not prescribe a tablet a day after the rape victim, there is no doubt that it is just an ideology. [[Voice from the O.R.:]] But why do all women have the world view of Minister Radziwill? Why is it that all Poles are considered dumber than citizens of other countries of the European Union? Why do you want more unwanted pregnancies, and therefore more abortions? It's hypocrisy, not concern for anything. Why do you want to introduce a religious state in Poland piece by piece, through the back door, quietly? Do Poles really have to go to the Czech Republic or Germany for freedom? Why are you treating us like this? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u552	I have serious doubts as to whether your question concerns this amendment. [[But this is about the case.]] Mr Borys Budka, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u553	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! I, with a formal request, already justify a 15-minute break in order to cool the emotion, because the Members of the PiS behave as if they had mistaken the pills. Gentlemen, this isn't about the blue pill. [[Don't insult me.]] This isn't the bill, gentlemen. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Because this one's non-prescription.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is the height of hypocrisy and hypocrisy when the PiS Members talk about love for women. How you treat women, we saw them in Bydgoszcz. [[Applause]] We've seen how you feel about women. And you dare say you love them? This love of yours... Forget the love, let the Polish women decide for themselves and leave them alone. [[Applause]] [[Sit down!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u554	Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, ninety-seven percent of your speeches are speaking alongside, using the question point. [[Voice from the hall: But what about this love?]] If this is in the form of questions, then these are not questions about. I am addressing the presidents of the clubs of the High House because I am just before making a decision not to allow questions to be asked in the next vote. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Oh, no.]] I would like to draw your attention to: Please follow the Rules of Procedure and ask questions about questions at all, not to make a statement. Mrs Anna Maria Siarkowska, near the Republican.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u555	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Outrageous words just came from this place. Why? Because the state, speaking of rape victims... [[Women's rights, right?]] ...and the rape pregnancy, they forget that in the case of rape and rape, we have two victims-- a woman and a child. Don't discriminate against a child if you're talking about a raped pregnancy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[God, woman!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u556	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. In favour 259, against 172, six Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 17th amendment to the article. The 18th draft law amending the applicant proposes that Article. Point 21 entered into force on 30 June 2019. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Monika Rosa, the Modern Club. I would just like to draw your attention, Madam, to ask a question about Amendment 17.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u557	Mr. Marshal! My question under the amendment will be the question of time. Are you aware that in order for the tablet to work, it must be taken at the right time? [[That's not a question.]] I also have a question because I sense some misunderstanding in you. You do not have to take these tablets. [[Applause]] Now I have a question about love for women. That's how you love women... [[Member Krystyna Pavłowicz hits the desktop]] ...and I'll quote: "You pig, let's go march, you piece of shit! Is that how you love women? This is a recording by Councilman PiS from Piotrków Trybunalski. Is that how PiS loves women? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u558	The question is asked by Agnieszka Pomaska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u559	Mr. Marshal! The amendment refers to the date of entry into force of the law, and this is a very bad law and it should not enter into force at all. Did Mrs Siarkowska listen well to what she said? Your speech was illogical. The day after that pill is just so that a raped woman doesn't have to go to a doctor, to a hospital, and not have to have an abortion. That's one thing. [[Those are the questions for the project?]] Secondly, I wanted to ask if you were wondering... [[No.]] ...why is an erection medicine available without a prescription and the contraceptive pill needs a prescription? I address this side of the room in particular. Secondly, I wanted to ask you, [[Joy in the Chamber]] Isn't that the behavior we're watching, Mr. PiS is a little morbid? Isn't it morbid to be interested in the sexuality of young women by the PiS men? [[♪ The bell ♪]] It seems morbid to me. [[Is that a project question, Marshal?]] Finally, I'd like to say...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u560	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u561	...that this is an absolute scandal...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u562	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u563	...and I think that this debate in the Sejm today should end... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u564	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 262 voted against - 169, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Before voting on the whole act, Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, the Civic Platform Club, asks the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u565	Ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, Dear girls! Konstanty Radziwiłł, Konstanty Radziwiłł, Minister of Health of Poland, says: I will not prescribe a tablet the day after the raped girl, 12 years old. Marshal of the Karczewski Senate: I wouldn't help a 12-year-old girl raped. Do you hear what they're saying? Euro MP Hoc: An 11-year-old should have a baby. You guys have daughters? Do you have grandchildren? [[Voice from the room: We got it!]] You have no conscience. You have the hypocrisy that covers you all. You don't respect and understand women's rights. [[Bravo!]] You took them in vitro, you took their C-sections, their birth standards. [[Go away, Satan! Go away, Satan!]] Mr Pavłowicz yells at me: Satan. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] We are in competition, Madame. I wonder who's gonna be who. [[Applause]] [[Go away, Satan!]] [[It was flirty.]] To be perfectly serious... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u566	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u567	...we live in a country where...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u568	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u569	... We have to hold them off, girls. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u570	Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u571	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very complex project, because on the one hand we have very good solutions for saving access to drug technologies. On the other hand, we have this unfortunate pill, which, as I said earlier, has covered the entire bill here in the discussion. But we also have a third bottom and I would like to make this very clear to you. We allow for manual control of the pharmaceutical market estimated at PLN 11 billion. [[We'll see how you vote on this bill.]] And I'm just wondering if throwing this pill after a day wasn't just going to cover it all up so that we wouldn't discuss this market. [[Applause]] Therefore, I have this question: Did you analyze as an applicant, or is it not dangerous that such a market worth PLN 11 billion will be operated manually?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u572	Thank you. Mr Marek Ruciński, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u573	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say that the law itself contains a number of necessary provisions that patients have been waiting for for for years. I am positive about the measures aimed at verifying medical benefits. However, most emotions are aroused by records which should not be included in this law. We know what we're talking about. As a modern representative, I would like to make it clear that the state cannot interfere with citizens' freedom. Polish women should have the right to choose. [[Applause]] [[That's why you want to raise your retirement age, take your freedom.]] Meanwhile, you were so afraid of the discussion and the substantive debate on the arguments that the committee meeting was limited to voting on the proposed amendments. I would like to stress that I very much regret the fact that once again the good solutions that patients are waiting for have been obscured by the discussion, which shows that in Poland under the PiS rule, worldview neutrality has ceased to exist even with regard to the creation of the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u574	Thank you. Mr Joanna Kopcińska, Club Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u575	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! During the process of this really very important project for patients, many words came up, but unfortunately little concrete, substantive discussion, and a lot of lies and lies. This project offers the opportunity to save the lives and health of patients who have not yet had access to it. Why? Because for some time in difficult, exceptional situations were so called. Pharmacovigilance and non-standard chemotherapy procedures. But what happened under the rule of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party? [[Yeah, what?]] [[Eight years.]] They were gradually restricted and eventually extinguished by the Law of 12 May 2011. [[Don't lie to me.]] [[Don't lie to me. Confession.]] We are restoring in this bill the possibility of healing, financing the saving of human life, to which you do not want to draw attention. [[Confession.]] You're not telling the truth. If you love women so much, be in favour of this bill, vote. [[Don't lie to me.]] Give people health and don't cheat... [[Exactly.]] ...because every woman has a choice, and her safety is to be guarded by a doctor. [[Stop it, woman. Stop it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u576	Thank you very much. Mr Kaminski, near the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u577	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question that affects the essence of this discussion, because this is not a discussion about morality, because we are not a group predisposed to talk about morality. Regardless of which side of the hall we sit, those who go to church, for some reason they go to confession in this church. [[Speak for yourself.]] I understand you don't go to the confessional. Congratulations. [[I recommend it, too.]] But I will say this: there is a fundamental question where there is a border behind which the religious standard, even the noblest, is to be written in law. [[Man's life is not a religious manifestation.]] For some reason, our Catholic nation, which you often invoke, does not listen to their shepherds about sexual ethics. The question is, where is the border behind which these shepherds, who are unable to communicate their teaching effectively to the sheep, feed on the Penal Code and the law of the state to force people to morality. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm asking this question because it's contrary to appearances, it's a key question. [[You don't get it.]] Where is the border between religion and law? Where is the border between freedom and coercion? [[Voice from the room: Get to the point!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u578	Thank you very much. At the moment, I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, to speak. [[Well, that'll be a breakthrough.]] [[This will be a wonderful speech on behalf of Polish women.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u579	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to emphasise once again that the bill under review is 99% concerns emergency medical technologies and regulates access to them, which has so far been impossible. Professor Kopcińska made it clear that in life-threatening situations, the previous government has restricted patients' access by adopting a law that has eliminated non-standard therapies. [[Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] And we're correcting this mistake with this bill. Ladies and gentlemen! As regards ellaOne's availability on prescription, I would like to stress that the European Commission, which values women's freedom so much, gives individual countries the freedom to shape how to distribute these tablets. [[Then please answer why all European countries allow this tablet.]] But I would stress that in the countries where this [[♪ The bell ♪]] The tablet is non-prescription, this tablet is distributed in pharmacies where it is used to the full extent of pharmaceutical care, where an interview is conducted with the person who comes for the tablet and the pharmacist decides whether or not he can release the tablet. [[But you're lying, but you're lying terribly.]] This tablet is also released in hospital pharmacies or medical centers, so that it is not completely out of control. That is why we, in the interest of the welfare of women, introduce the health of Polish women... [[But don't worry anymore. Women can take care of themselves.]] ...the need to issue this tablet just with a prescription. In reply to Mr Arłukowicz on the issue of imperial cuts, I would like to inform you that the government has not eliminated the possibility of imperial cuts in Poland. [[But he lowered it.]] [[But he limited it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u580	Thank you. I ask you, Commissioner, especially Mrs Mucha and Mrs Pomaska, not to shout. [[Why?]] There were still questions to be asked. I don't know if those are the questions to the committee rapporteur. Would you like to speak? Mr Tadeusz Dziuba, rapporteur for the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u581	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I must remind you that this law is a law that introduces the so-called law. Rescue access to the drugs. This bill fills the gap that has been mentioned twice before. [[Then why'd you put a pill in there? A regulation was enough.]] In 2011, it was decided to eliminate two non-standard therapies. He appeared here in the discussion a thread of unlimited administrative decisions in refund proceedings, perhaps in a manner hidden here expressed. I must definitely deny this thesis. On the contrary, a number of restrictions have been imposed in the correction of the refund procedure and in the new intervention concerning emergency access to medicines on administrative factors. The amendments we voted on also concern them. Once again, I call on the committee to adopt this extremely important legislation for patients, especially those who have not yet been able to benefit from access to medicines reimbursed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u582	Thank you very much. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1488, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The vote was 242, against - 188, with 9 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Appointment of the members of the Commission for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of law (prints Nos 1548 and 1565). I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. High Izbo! The Sejm pursuant to Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 The Act on Special Rules for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions concerning Warsaw Real Estate, issued in violation of the law, appoints eight members of the committee. Mr Sebastian Kaleta, Mr Łukasz Kondratka, Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, Mr Paweł Lisiecki, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Mr Jan Mosiński, Mr Bartłomiej Wojciech Opaliński and Mr Adam Krzysztof Zieliński have been nominated as members of the committee. On the basis of the article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I decided to refer the applications to the Legislative Commission for opinion. Please take the floor of Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk in order to present the candidacy of Mr Sebastian Kaleta presented by a group of Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u583	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the law and justice of the candidate for the verification commission of Mr Sebastian Kaleta. Sebastian Kaleta graduated from the Faculty of Law and Administration at the University of Warsaw. Between 2014 and 2016 he was a solicitor in the District Chamber of Legal Counsels in Warsaw, and then after passing the examination he became a legal adviser. From 2012 to 2015 he pursued the profession of lawyer in the Lawyer's Office and SPCG Legal Advisers. Since 2016, he has been a press spokesperson for the Minister of Justice and is also an advisor to the State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. As of June 2016, he has been a member of the Interministerial Commission for the Enforcement of Public Finance Discipline at the Minister of Justice. Mr Kaleta was one of the founders and long-term president of the Youth Association for Poland, in which he coordinated several dozen social programmes, the most important of which is the co-organization of the conference Together for the future, Poland's Great Project, the construction of the monument of the Rotmaster Pilecki in Warsaw, the restoration of memory of the cursed soldiers We ask for you and the organization of dozens of discussion panels, conferences and meetings with the participation of well-known figures of public life. During his studies he was an active member of the student council. Between 2011 and 2012 he was a member of the Senate of the University of Warsaw. From 2011 to June 2012 he served as Chairman of the Election Committee of the Council of Students of the University of Warsaw and Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Government of Students of the University of Warsaw. Both his education and his experience indicate that Mr Sebastian Kaleta is a good candidate for a member of the committee on the removal of the legal consequences of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate. Thank you very much, and I would like Mr Kalety's support. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u584	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz in order to present Mr Łukasz Kondratka's candidacy as tabled by a group of Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u585	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present Dr. Łukasz Kondratka's candidacy to the reprivatization committee. Mr Łukasz Kondratko was born on 14 March 1983 in Rzeszów. Between 2002 and 2006, he studied at the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań on the right. Master's degree on He wrote in the Chair of Theory and Philosophy of Law under the direction of Prof. dr hab. Sławomira Vrchman-Jaśkiewicz. The written master's paper was an expression of interest in the interpretation of legal texts in the context of socio-political changes in Poland after 1989. Between 2006 and 2010, he completed his doctoral studies at the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań, whose culmination was the public defense written in the Chair of Theory and Philosophy of Law under the direction of Prof. Dr. Hab. Mark Smolak's doctoral dissertation on Functional interpretation and socio-political change. Theoretical law study. The reviewers of the doctoral thesis were professors of law Maciej Zieliński and Tomasz Stawecki. In his previous work, Mr Łukasz Kondratko gained experience in the performance of his duties in the framework of the architectural and construction administration, with particular regard to the construction supervisory authorities, including in particular the conduct of proceedings concerning executions in the administration. He worked in the District Construction Supervision Supervisor for the City of Poznań, the Main Building and District Construction Supervision Authority for the City of Przemyśl. He also performed the duties of a member of the Self-Governmental Board of Appeal in Przemyśl in the years 2011 to 2016. In particular, the performance of his duties within the Self-Governmental Board of Appeal in Przemyśl enabled him to gain experience in dealing with appeals or emergency procedures under the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure and the Tax Order as well as falling within the scope of administrative substantive law - inter alia. the Land Planning and Development Act, the Real Estate Management Act, the Social Assistance Act. From 2012, Mr Łukasz Kondratko started working at the Chamber of Commerce in Przemyśl. He performed his duties as bailiff and later deputy bailiff by appointment of the President of the Court of Appeal in Rzeszów. From 2013 to today, Mr Łukasz Kondratko runs his own chamber office in Przemyśl as a bailiff at the Przemyśl District Court on the basis of the decision of the Minister of Justice of 8 November 2013 to appoint a bailiff at the Przemyśl District Court after the bailiff had been cancelled. As part of his own bail-in practice, he conducts a number of cases concerning the execution of security features for both monetary and non-cash benefits under the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code Act. In addition to working in public administration bodies and in his own chamber practice, Mr Łukasz Kondratko also conducted at the Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University in Warsaw, the Faculty of Law and Administration, the Chair of Theory and Philosophy of Law, conversations with the following subjects: admission to state and law studies, access to law, theory and philosophy of law. He's partyless. Both education and extensive professional experience indicate that Mr Łukasz Kondratko is a good candidate for committee. High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I recommend Dr. Łukasz Kondratka to be a member of the reprivatisation committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u586	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Halicki in order to present the candidacy of Mr Robert Kropiwnicki presented by the Group of Members of the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u587	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission for the removal of the legal effects of the re-privatization decisions concerning real estate issued in violation of the law in Warsaw will not solve the problems which are related to the decree of Bierut. We're well aware of that. I appeal from this place once again for the marshal to begin the process of a law which at the same time protects the property rights and tenants' rights. We take this committee seriously, although it has questionable legal grounds, because it is very important that aspects of criminal law, administrative law be meticulously implemented during the proceedings and work of this committee. Therefore, the Civic Platform Club delegates and recommends to this committee an experienced lawyer, as well as a parliamentarians, Dr. Robert Kropiwnicki. Mr Robert Kropiwnicki has been a Member of the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility, Vice-President of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, Member of the Committee on Special Services, and other committees and subcommittees since the three term of office. He is a graduate of the University of Wrocław, a doctor of legal sciences in constitutional law. He graduated from the Helsinki School of Human Rights. Since 1999, he has also been a lecturer at the School of Europe. He founded European clubs; he is a lecturer in 15 such clubs. He works regularly with young people. He is an academic lecturer at the State Higher Vocational School in Legnica. She provides training for unemployed people, entrepreneurs, teachers, social workers. A very active social worker in this area of law. We recommend Dr Robert Kropiwnicki's candidacy also because he is an experienced local governmentman. It is not related to Warsaw, but its local government experience gained in Legnica, knowledge of procedures, knowledge of law, as well as administrative law, are important in this respect and ensure impartiality. I will not mention all the social activities that Mr. Robert Kropiwnicki carries out regardless of his mandate. The Civic Platform Club, once again, recommends Robert Kropiwnicki's candidacy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u588	Thank you, sir. As far as the bill on Bierut's decree is concerned, I would like to inform the High House that this draft, as far as I know, is in the process of working on the committee... [[The Commission has delivered an opinion.]] ...so I'd ask the factions to look at this project. At the moment, you will be speaking with Marek Ast to present the candidacy of Mr Paweł Lisiecki presented by the Parliamentary Club Group Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u589	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the candidacy of Mr Paweł Lisiecki. Paweł Lisiecki graduated from the Institute of Archaeology at the University of Warsaw and the Institute of Historical University of Warsaw with specialty economic history. In 2004 he completed postgraduate real estate valuation studies at the Warsaw University of Technology, where he defended his diploma on perpetual use. In 2006 he completed postgraduate studies in real estate management at the Faculty of Law of the University of Warsaw. Between 2002 and 2014 he was a councilman in the district of Prague-North of the city. Warsaw. As a councilman, he dealt with real estate and housing issues. In 2014, he was elected Councillor of the M.S. Warsaw. For 6 years, he carried out his own business of managing and managing real estate. Between 2014 and 2016 he was the mayor of the district of Prague-North of the city. Warsaw was subject to him, among others. property management and housing matters. In 2015, he was elected as a Member of the Sejm from the 19th District, including Warsaw and abroad. He sits in a number of committees, above all he is the President of the Parliamentary Group for Affairs. investigating irregularities in reprivatisation. As a councilman, and then several times, the Member informed about possible irregularities related to the return of the property on the premises of the M.S. Warsaw. Paweł Lisiecki is a licensed real estate manager, co-founder of the Warsaw Association on his own and honorary member of the Association of Entrepreneurship in Real Estate. Both education and extensive professional experience indicate that Mr Paweł Lisiecki is a good candidate for a member of the verification committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u590	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Paweł Pudłowski in order to present the candidacy of Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz presented by the Group of Members of the Modern Posel Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u591	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern I would like to submit the candidacy of Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz to the verification committee. Mr Meysztowicz was born on 1 October 1958 in Krakow. He studied at the Faculty of Humanities at the Catholic University of Lublin. In 1998 he served as the First Deputy Voivodeship of Kraków, and in 1999 and 2001 the First Vice Voivodeship of Małopolska. At that time he was involved in, among others. supervision of the work of the Treasury Department and the Department of Property Transformations. These departments took care of the companies of the State Treasury for which the founding body was the voivode and annulled the decision to take over property acquired in violation of the law in the framework of the agricultural reform and the nationalisation of companies. During the administrative reform period, he was responsible, among others. s [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] - thank you, Mr. Marshal - the communalization of the property of the State Treasury for local self-government units, including the newly created Małopolska voivodeship, and the development of property after the liquidation of the New Sądecki and Tarnowski voivodships. He's an entrepreneur with years of experience. As part of his business, he gained experience in the field of economy, trade and property management. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz has been closely associated with the NGO sector for years. He co-founded the International Association of the Krakow Development Forum, established in cooperation with The Prince of Wales International Business Leaders Forum, and was president of this foundation for several years. Between 1994 and 1997 he was a counsellor of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry in Krakow. He is also involved in charity activities, being an active member of one of Kraków's Lions Club and the Association of Polish Maltese Cavalry. The experience gained from local government, business and third sector activities since 2015 has been used in policy within the framework of the Modern Group. Member of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland since 2015. Since 2016, Vice-President of the Modern and Vice-President of the Parliamentary Group. regulation of ownership. Ladies and gentlemen! At this point, I'd like your attention, if you don't mind. This is just a small piece of my speech when I would like your attention and listening. At the meeting of the Legislative Commission, there were doubts about the fact that the Member had made a statement earlier than he should that one of his family had completed the process and that the other of his family was in the process of reprivatising proceedings, and that was why there were doubts. As these doubts arose, we urgently asked the Sejm Analysis Office for a legal opinion on this matter, which was received yesterday after the resolution of the Legislative Commission. I would just like to briefly quote some information from this opinion. It's positive. Firstly, the opinion concludes that the content of the statement does not prevent the performance of the duties of committee members. Secondly, the statement was made prematurely. Obligation to make a declaration of pregnancy on persons already in the composition of the committee, i.e. on the Chair and on the members of the committee, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] not on aspiring candidates. However, Mr Meysztowicz considered it reasonable to inform the High House before your decision. Also in this opinion, BAS states that if the Commission's actions concern the Warsaw real estate listed in Mr Meysztowicz's statement, it will be excluded from the proceedings on the basis of Article. 24 § 1 k.p.a. in conjunction with Article. Article 38 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 act. If this were to be compared to an event, then if this committee were, and in certain areas is, a court, then it would be difficult to exclude a judge from any case concerning this kind of situation, in which someone in his family would have some ongoing proceedings. So that I very kindly ask the High Sejm to support this candidacy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u592	Thank you, sir. Mr Milewski will speak in order to present the candidacy of Mr Jan Mosiński presented by the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u593	Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! Mr Jan Mosiński was born in 1956 in Lublin. He graduated from the Faculty of Social Sciences at the University of Social Sciences. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań. In 2009 he received a doctorate in humanities at the Faculty of Political Sciences and Journalism at Adam Mickiewicz University in Poznań. Jan Mosiński is the author of books of a scientific nature, as well as many articles and publications on social and European themes. Mr Jan Mosiński has the necessary knowledge on the use of state resources as well as on the management of real estate. He was a member of supervisory boards, among others. in Wielkopolska Agricultural Bank, Warm Energy Company in Kalisz, an economic fund in Gdańsk. From 2010 to now he is a member of the Social Council of the Provincial Hospital Complex in Kalisz, one of the largest hospitals in Wielkopolska. Between 1998 and 2000, Jan Mosiński represented the National Commission for Solidarity in the Tripartite Commission for the Development of a Light Industry Strategy, which was responsible for developing a support mechanism for companies in the textile industry in difficulty. He was one of the founders of the Pro Patria Bastion Foundation, where until now he is a member of the management board of the Foundation, among others. one of the parts of the Jasna Góra monastery, where restaurant and conservatory works were carried out in a broad sense. The Foundation is responsible for managing this property. Mr Jan Mosiński is a person who makes an important contribution to the fight for free Poland, the defence of democracy and human rights. Since 1980, he has been a member of the "Solidarity', where he has performed important functions in the national authorities of the union. Between 1983 and 1989, Jan Mosiński was worked out by the Security Service. Mr Jan Mosiński is a member of Law and Justice. From 2010 to 2015 he served as Councilman of the Sejm of the Wielkopolska Voivodeship and currently holds a parliamentary mandate. He's married, he's got three kids and three grandchildren. Both education and extensive professional experience indicate that Mr Jan Mosiński is a good, suitable candidate for a member of the Commission for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u594	At the moment, Mr Paszyk will be speaking to present Mr Bartłomiej Wojciech Opaliński's candidacy by a group of Members from the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u595	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to characterize Dr Bartłomiej Opaliński on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] and recommend this person to be a member of the Commission for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate. Dr Bartłomiej Opaliński was born on 23 July 1986 in Warsaw. After completion in 2005 The High School of General Education. Stefan Żeromski took legal studies in Żyrardów. On the basis of his master's thesis, he obtained the legal status of President of the Republic of Poland against the background of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 1997 on 18 June 2009. In September 2009 he successfully submitted an initial exam for the solicitor's application and since 1 January 2010 he carried out it in the District Chamber of Legal Counsels in Warsaw. On 16 December 2010, a public defence of the doctoral dissertation under the direction of Prof. Dr. Hab took place. Wojciech Sokolewicz, entitled "The separation of executive powers between the President of the Republic of Poland and the Council of Ministers on the basis of the 1997 Constitution. Since the beginning of his scientific path, Dr. Opaliński has been associated with the Faculty of Law and Administration of Łazarski University in Warsaw. Between 2011 and 2013 he was an assistant at the Chair of Administrative Law, and since 2013 he has been an assistant at the Chair of Administration Science. Between 2014 and 2015 he served as deputy dean of the Faculty of Law and Administration. Legal applications. From 2015 to today he is the dean of the Law and Administration Department. Legal applications. Dr Bartłomiej Opaliński has been a legal adviser since 2014. Since September 2015, he has been running his own law firm. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The fundamental legal education, legal practice, work at the University of Łazarski and the Office of the Supreme Administrative Court seem to give the best basis for the proper fulfilment of the duties of a member of the Commission to remove the legal consequences of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate issued in violation of the law. Let me add, ladies and gentlemen, that the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party pointed out a person who was professionally and substantively prepared to devote himself to the work of the committee to avoid making the work of this committee a arena, another arena of political struggle. And we would like to wish the atmosphere of work It was this committee that it should take place in this spirit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u596	Please. Mr Tomasz Romankowski will be speaking at the moment in order to present the candidacy of Mr Adam Krzysztof Zieliński, submitted by a group of Members from the Kukiz Posel Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u597	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! I was honoured to present the candidacy of Mr Adam Krzysztof Zieliński, submitted by the Poselski Kukiz Club15. Mr Adam Krzysztof Zieliński graduated from the General Education High School. Tadeusz Czacki in Warsaw. Between 2008 and 2013, he studied law at the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Warsaw, where he obtained a master's degree in law. From the beginning of his academic career, he started his professional career at the law firm of legal counsels related to issues on the border between public and private law. He then participated in the legal service of the fund managing tens of millions of zlotys. In the following years, he established his own business activity and successfully dealt with legal advice and training for entrepreneurs on legal aspects of property management. In January 2016, he started working at the Sejm of the Republic of Poland as an advisor to the Deputy Marshal of the Polish Sejm Stanisław Tyszka. In parallel with his professional activities, Mr Adam Zieliński developed his scientific commitment. In 2014 he started working on a doctoral dissertation on the legal protection of food quality at the Institute of Legal Sciences of the State Academy of Sciences, which continues at the Food Law Laboratory at the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Warsaw. Mr Adam Zieliński is the author of several scientific publications, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] including chapters in the monograph published by the Ombudsman and the monograph published in Germany. The candidate also conducts postgraduate studies at SWPS University. In addition, Mr Adam Zieliński has been actively involved in the activities of important NGOs in Warsaw for many years. He performed numerous educational functions in the Association of Scouts of the Republic of Poland, mainly team-mates, scouts and wanderers. He has been particularly successful. as the leader of the Warsaw Black One environment. In the following years, Mr Adam Zieliński founded a branch of the Jagiellonian Club Association in Warsaw and co-created the think-tank of the Jagiellonian Club Analysis Centre, within which he took up public activity and coordinated the work of experts. As a non-political candidate, independent and objective, and with above-average knowledge of civil and administrative law, Mr Adam Krzysztof Zieliński gives the guarantee of a fair and reliable performance of the duties of a member of the committee with commitment and diligence. In addition, his valuable experience in social work provides an important basis for positive cooperation with non-governmental organisations, which played a key role in the fight against the so-called. Wild Warsaw reprivatization. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to add from myself that Mr Adam Krzysztof Zieliński has since the beginning of the Parliamentary Group on Regulation of Property Relations is a permanent collaborator of this team and supports Members of this team. He is the author of the draft resolution on the establishment of the Committee of Investigation to investigate the so-called. The reprivatization scandal. It has been providing legal assistance to members of our club since the beginning of the current term of office of the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of myself and the club I represent, I encourage you to support this excellent candidacy as a committee member. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u598	Thank you very much, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] But I would ask you to stop talking about things that aren't about. If any of you want to talk, please go to the cockroaches, and don't turn your back here, too, to the speaker. Please take the floor of Mr Mark Ast in order to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u599	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Legislative Commission, I have the honour to present the committee's opinion on the proposals for the selection of members of the Commission for the removal of the legal effects of the re-privatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in breach of the law, contained in print No 1565. On 24 May 2017, the Legislative Commission of the Sejm examined the proposals of Marshal Sebastian Kalety, Łukasz Kondratki, Robert Kropiwnicki, Paweł Lisiecki, Jan Mosiński, Bartłomiej Wojciech Opaliński, Adam Krzysztof Zieliński, and the candidacy of Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz - negative. This is where the doubt prevails. on this candidacy related to a possible conflict of interest, which Mr Pudłowski mentioned. At that time, the Commission had not yet had the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office, hence the negative opinion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u600	Thank you, sir. Is any of the ladies and gentlemen - I can see that this is the case - wishing to speak on the candidates submitted? Please report. Ms Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz Club15, asks for the floor. I'm setting time for two minutes. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u601	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are in favour of the Moderne having its representative on the verification committee, but we ask you to refer to the media reports on Mr Meysztowicz's candidacy and to explain. Mr President, can you explain, dement or confirm media reports on your purchase of two tenement houses in Krakow... [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] ...at ul. Krakowska and by en. A freewoman, especially since it was made from over 100-year-old Mr. Isaac Leiser? [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] Can you explain if you've been able to verify... The press reports that you failed to verify the power of attorney on the basis of which you bought these tenements. It couldn't be verified because the power of attorney was missing. Are these just reports? We, in order to be able to make a decision on your candidacy, would like to hear if you would discredit it and whether it's true or not. Is there any way we can address this? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u602	Thank you very much. Here's the situation... Excuse me, sir. Excuse me. We have such a situation, ma'am, that at this point one Member may speak from each club. If there is a question concerning the candidate, I may allow the Member presenting the candidate or rapporteur, the representative of the committee. [[But I've been...]] If Mr Meysztowicz is acting on behalf of the Modern Club, go ahead. [[Yes.]] Yes? Here you go, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u603	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm guessing my candidacy may not be right for everyone, but I'm gonna answer all the questions I've been asked. Well, of course, I come from a family that has real estate, some sell, some buy, some are family property. In two cases I actually acquired tenements in Krakow. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] It was in the '90s. I would also like to say that all procedures have been carried out to verify that these transactions were legal. They were all legal. [[In Warsaw, too.]] I would like to say that it is not true, Madame, that the matter has not been clarified or verified. I would like to inform you that all these verification activities ended in remission and confirmation that all the documents that the previous owner had were original documents. Not much, these were documents confirmed by the Polish consulate in Buenos Aires, [[♪ Move, joy in the hall ♪]] So I'd count on it... Polish Consulate, I apologize if you do not trust Polish diplomatic institutions... [[We don't, of course we don't.]] ...I don't know what's going on anymore. Madam President, if you provide some information, I would like it to be genuinely proven and credible, because at the moment you have caused such a rather awkward situation. I can assure you that the fact that I have informed the High House and your marshal that I have real estate, that I am a real estate salesman does not mean that I have neither the predisposition nor the moral right to sit on this committee. That's what I confirmed by making a statement. If you want to discredit mine [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your candidacy, and you're doing it quite effectively, thank you very much. [[Fall back!]] [[You gotta be kidding me!]] I hope that Members consider my explanations sufficient. All I can say is that this case was investigated before I became a candidate for the Vice-Vote, and after checking all related issues I received a nomination from Prime Minister Buzek for the post of Vice-Vote of Małopolska and Kraków. [[Come on. Buzek - you couldn't sink worse.]] I don't think, under these circumstances, if there were any objections to me, I would get this nomination. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u604	Thank you very much, thank you, sir. Would any of your fellow Members like to speak again? No one's checking in. The discussion is closed. Let's move on to the vote. The Sejm pursuant to Article. Article 31a (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall appoint the members of the Commission for the removal of the legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in breach of the law by an absolute majority of votes. On the basis of the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 Act on the special rules for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law of the Sejm appoints, I remind you, eight members of the committee. Eight candidates have been submitted. The Sejm will vote on individual nominations in alphabetical order. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask for silence. We proceed with the vote on Mr Sebastian Kaleta's candidacy by Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Mr Sebastian Kaleta as a member of the Commission for the removal of the legal effects of the re-privatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. The absolute majority is 211. The vote was 405, against - 10, with 6 abstentions. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm has appointed Mr Sebastian Kaleta as a member of the committee. We proceed with the vote on Mr Łukasz Kondratka's candidacy by Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Mr Łukasz Kondratka as a member of the Commission for the removal of the legal effects of the re-privatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. The absolute majority is 213. The vote was 412 against - 6, with six abstentions. I state that the Sejm has appointed Mr. Łukasz Kondratka as a member of the committee. We proceed with the vote on Mr Robert Kropiwnicki's candidacy by Members of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Mr Robert Kropiwnicki as a member of the Commission for the removal of the legal consequences of the re-privatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 219 Members voted. The absolute majority is 110. The vote was 194 against - 13, with 12 abstentions. [[Voice from the room: There is no quorum!]] [[Voice from the room: Quorum!]] I have to re-vote because in this case I can't find a quorum, right now. We shall proceed to the vote again. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Mr Robert Kropiwnicki's candidacy will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 230 Members voted. The absolute majority is 116. The vote was 196, against - 14, with 20 abstentions. [[Some kind of miracle.]] I state that the Sejm has chosen Mr Robert Kropiwnicki as a member of the committee. We proceed with the vote on Mr Paweł Lisiecki's candidacy by Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Mr Paweł Lisiecki as a member of the Commission for the removal of the legal consequences of the re-privatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 350 Members voted. The absolute majority is 176. 320 voted against - 21, 9 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has chosen Mr Lisiecki as a member of the committee. We proceed to the vote on Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz's candidacy by Members of the Modern Posel Club. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz as a member of the Commission for the removal of the legal consequences of the re-privatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. The absolute majority is 206. 164 voted against - 243, 4 abstained. I state that the Sejm did not appoint Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz as a member of the committee in the absence of an absolute majority of votes. We proceed with the vote on Mr Jan Mosiński's candidacy by Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Mr Jan Mosiński as a member of the Commission on the removal of the legal consequences of the re-privatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 326 Members voted. The absolute majority is 164. There were 279 votes against, 44 abstentions. I state that the Sejm elected Mr.John Mosiński as a member of the committee by a majority. We proceed to the vote on Mr Bartłomiej Wojciech Opaliński's candidacy by Members of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Mr Bartholomew Wojciech Opaliński as a member of the committee in question would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The absolute majority is 215. The vote was 425, against - one, with two abstentions. I state that the Sejm has appointed Mr Bartłomiej Wojciech Opaliński as a member of the committee. We proceed with the vote on Mr Adam Krzysztof Zieliński's candidacy tabled by Members of the Kukiz Poselski Club15. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Mr Adam Krzysztof Zieliński as a member of the committee in question would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. The absolute majority is 211. The vote was 382 against - 25, with 13 abstentions. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm has appointed Mr Adam Krzysztof Zieliński as a member of the committee. Since the Sejm has not appointed all the members of the Commission for the removal of the legal effects of the re-privatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate issued in violation of the law, we will carry out the procedure again with regard to the failure to establish it. [[But when again?]] Of course, ladies and gentlemen, in the case of those places, the vacancies that are at the moment. [[What kind of vacancies?]] That's one vacancy. [[But there's no commission.]] We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 1580). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 143 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 11 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on this matter? No one's checking in. [[There's no committee.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No 1580 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 400 Members voted. The vote was 386, against - 2 with 12 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 min. 36 hours 21 min 40]] I'm reopening the session. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? If not, I'm closing the list of people who want to make a statement. I would like to be the first to speak to Mrs Catherine Chechara. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u605	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński was born on 3 August 1903. On 28 May, there were 36. The anniversary of his death and on this occasion I would like to remind you that it was not only the great hierarch of the Church, the Primate of Poland, named by St. John Paul II Primate of the Millennium, but also a great statesman. With his preparation, not only theological but also social, with his knowledge and personal attitude he was a providential man, not only for Poland the times in which he came to live. He's also a teacher to us today and he has a lot to tell us. Speech and sermon of cardinals. Stefan Wyszyński is extremely up-to-date, also for the present time. I'd like to remind you of a few of them. In Poland we need to defend the affairs of our homeland, not foreign orders. We need to be generous in the various difficult situations our homeland is going through, because no one can save our homeland. Even the biggest loans and billions of dollars from abroad won't save us. We're the only ones who can do this. (...). Another time he warned: "We cannot settle in our Homeland only in the perspective of consumer comfort, because so many nations have destroyed in this very convenient attitude. Although we wish all of us personal and domestic happiness, we know that our Homeland, in order to preserve its freedom and defence, is not enough for our convenience. Cardinal. Stefan Wyszyński also emphasized that we are not today, we are not just today. We are a nation to pass on to the distant future all the powers accumulated by the millennium and intensified in modern times. We want to live and we can live! Let's remember that one is Poland! Poland is alive... Poland is working... Poland does not lose hope... Poland believes... Poland loves... Poland is going to the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u606	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Robert Winnicki. There's no envoy? Then I would like to ask Mrs Anna Cicholska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u607	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I was very pleased to hear from the Ciechanian City Hall about the acquisition of grants from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration under the "Together safer" programme. Władysław Stasiak. The funds received under the project - Improving the safety of pedestrian crossings in Ciechanów - modernization and education - will enable the purchase and installation of 100 active points of retro-reflective elements of the LED type, the cat mesh, which will appear at the pedestrian crossings. The project also provides for the allocation of some of the funds raised to carry out educational activities among all road users. The programme is safer together. Władysław Stasiak is very well received by the public, but above all he helps local government to raise funds for investments that support safety on the roads and streets of our cities. It is an example of a good, effective use of resources for road safety prevention among residents of cities and towns. It all comes with a positive perception by society. I would like to thank the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration Mariusz Błaszczak for his support for the project submitted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u608	Thank you. Mrs Lydia Gądek, I would like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u609	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to announce [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] a statement on the 25th anniversary of family medicine in Poland and the World Family Doctor's Day. In 2012 I had the opportunity to make a statement on the 20th anniversary of family medicine in Poland. Round anniversaries I consider an excellent opportunity for some kind of summary, drawing conclusions and presenting a vision of development. Therefore, after the next 5 years I want to refer again to the condition and importance of Polish family medicine. In this case, I consider an in-depth reflection to be the duty and honor of every Member with a doctor's character in his hand, especially given the fact that I am a specialist in family medicine. I don't think there's anyone in this room who would object to a statement about the great, even superior role of family medicine in the public health system. In the United States of America, the importance of this branch of medicine was noted just after World War II, in Europe at the beginning of the 1970s. In our homeland we implemented good patterns from the West in fact only a few years after the fall of the Iron Curtain. Over the past quarter of a century, the health care system has been repeatedly reformed, not to say that it has given in to several revolutions. Currently, in Poland, a family doctor is considered to be a second-degree specialist in this field. Of course, it is an essential element of basic health care, but it is not the only one. Preventive, diagnostic, therapeutic, rehabilitation and care services are provided with the necessary assistance of an environmental and family nurse, an environmental and family midwife and a nurse in the teaching and education environment. The team, which together we create, plans and implements comprehensive care of the patient, including healthy Pole and his family. In the course of performing our duties, we pay more attention to the environment of the patient, his work, family, material situation, and even the characteristics of character and religion in a holistic manner than the doctor of any other specialization. Moreover, a family doctor is also the greatest guarantee of continuity of treatment - knowing the history of the patient's illness, disposition, habits, family history and lifestyle, he is able to coordinate the treatment process properly. By directing the patient to appropriate specialist clinics, hospital treatment, we have a great responsibility for an extended and reliable diagnosis of the health condition. This is not a simple task, because in breaks in a highly absorbing work we must constantly increase the resources of our knowledge and skills. The biggest pay for us are the positive effects of treatment, rehabilitation and increasing confidence in our patients. The potential of the family doctor, in addition to knowledge, acquired abilities, good relations with the patient, are also his personal qualities, as he should as a public person with a rich system of values, attitudes, opinions and emotions create his actions towards the patient. We must be able to find a balance between commitment, effort and our own vital forces, which are not limitless. Is the health care system in Poland conducive to the family doctor in the proper execution of the mission he takes on his shoulders? Is it not more worthwhile for a young doctor to choose a specialty than that which is the core of the health system, but which is unfortunately criticised in many environments? Has it developed since the last round anniversary of the 20th anniversary of family medicine in Poland, or on the contrary, because it came to function in more difficult and less predictable times? Does the State support the training process of family doctors? Are they coming or falling? Are they getting younger or older? The answers to these questions, which we know to a large extent, are unfortunately not good for us as a society. These are a number of questions which are rhetorical for people who know the condition of the Polish healthcare system. I dare also say that the discussion on family medicine in Poland is deprived of positive accents every year, and even worse, the actions of the current management of the health department prove that it unfortunately goes further than in many highly developed countries. At this point, I would like to thank all the founding fathers, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who 25 years ago undertook the effort to implement family medicine doctors in Poland, and all those who work in this profession for the benefit of the entire population of Poles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u610	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Jakub Rutnicki. Mr Jacek Kurzepa. Isn't there one? [[It's coming, it's coming, it's ……]] You're an MP. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u611	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Today we meet on the eve of the most beautiful holidays, namely Mother's Day. The phenomenon of motherhood, which, when it is accomplished, lasts until the end of days, is particularly evident. Although there are various individual experiences in the case of a child's relationship - mom, the most important issue is the folklore: the mother has only one. I want to reflect on your relationship exclusivity with her today. If you'd like to join me in this journey towards your mother's heart, I'd be happy to. She is the first to feel and interact with you as a being, when you are more or less intensely aglowing in her belly, signaling to the world: here I am. And then in this special, intimate and personal relationship of two bodies in one begins the endless concern, responsibility, care for her towards you. It continues, although you yourself, growing up, becoming more and more independent, want both the actual umbilical cord and the symbolic umbilical cord to break. Of course, it's both natural and obvious to bump into youthful, adult independence. The quality of your relationship is affected by a different stigma. There are a lot of awkwardness, injustice, and unnecessary evil emotions that with the power of tornadoes will close the door to your peace, the world to which you limit the entrance to the person who undisputedly loves you the most in the world. Then sometimes it is difficult to reverse them again, though she, mother, usually humbly and in full modesty awaits her motherly service under them. So if we're going to have anything from this current conversation, then I'd like us to go in three directions to fix all that is imperfect, what is squawking, and our relationship with mom. Coming out of a simple sequence that she is the only one in the world, would you like to humble yourself to your own pretensions and remarks, to be critical of her, to reject pettyness and eternal pretensions for taking priority: I love you, Mom, after all, as you undisputedly love me. The second point is to bear witness to this love, because it itself, without evidence, gestures and words, pales, fades, becomes longing. So, if you've forgotten, neglected, failed to pay attention, would you like to accept that it's worth it? Whatever you do to your mother, do it with love and love, even in everyday prosaic rituals, a gesture to welcome the day, while brewing and drinking tea, at which you are together and not side by side. And the last direction. Give her, mother, good thoughts. If you are, like me, a believer, pray for her, pray for her, every day of her life in all matters, because I believe that everything that happens between you and her is rooted in a common rhythm of hearts, a heartbeat involving you together, feeding you when necessary, then one thing is another. Because I know that even if the umbilical cord was separated a long time ago, in the sense of spirit, [[♪ The bell ♪]] emotions and feelings will last forever, even after death, because that is the strength of love, motherly love. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u612	We thank you very much for this beautiful statement. I ask the floor of Mr Tomas Latos.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u613	Dear Marshal, It is extremely rare for me to speak at this point, which is a parliamentary statement, but today is a special situation, so I will allow myself to say a few words at this point. Well, ladies and gentlemen, 12 years ago, I had the pleasure of knowing how I started working in Parliament, and from the beginning I worked in the Health Committee, Maria Tauroginska-Kopeć. I attended her funeral today. I was there on behalf of the Health Committee. Unfortunately, it happened that there were circumstances that I couldn't say a few sentences at the time. I would therefore like to pay tribute to the late Mrs Marylce from this point on and thank her for her years of joint work in the committee, when she was secretary of the committee for years, headed the work of the secretariat of the Health Committee. She was extremely professional, she was very good at running the secretariat and I must say that I listened to her suggestions, her comments and gladly at the time when I was chairing the committee, I used her suggestions and help. May the good God accept her into his kingdom. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u614	Thank you, sir. Mr Waldemar Andzel, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u615	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This year, 25 years of uprising are celebrated by the State Fire Department, which is why I would like to bring up the story of the uprising of this much-neededed formation society. In the late '80s and early '90s. as a result of changes in the system, political and economic in Poland, as well as the growth of various kinds of threats, it became necessary to make radical changes in the fire protection system. As early as 1988, work was started on systemic legal and organisational solutions concerning a wide range of rescues in the form of new laws. They were preceded by problem analyses. Their creation was attended by representatives of fire marshals, fire schools, trade unions, as well as scientific communities. As a result of these actions, two drafts were drawn up and addressed to the Sejm: on fire protection and on the State Fire Guard. 1 July 1992 The PSP has been organized. At the same time, the implementation of adopted regulations and the implementation of numerous rescue tasks began. Another important task was the construction of a national rescue and fire-fighting system, the CRSG, which started functioning on 1 January 1995. In the following years, the system was expanded by including the most mobile units of voluntary firefighters. The reform of public administration entered into force on 1 January 1999. The implementation of the reform in the PSP required a great deal of work at all organisational levels. After almost 2 years of operation under new conditions, the State Fire Department and the national fire safety system have been strengthened. The public, expressing its opinion in subsequent surveys, sees the State Fire Department as the most mobile and best prepared rescue formation. The State Fire Department has a very lively activity in the international forum. International rescue cooperation agreements have been signed with most neighbouring countries in Poland. 25 years of the State Fire Service is a time of intense technological and technological change that is a source of new, previously unknown threats. During this time, firefighters have become a professional formation of qualified people, prepared substantively and physically to take action towards a single goal, i.e. to ensure optimal fire safety throughout the country. I thank all the firefighters for their daily hard work, help and rescue, which they carry with them at risk of their lives. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u616	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Sachajko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u617	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to make a statement on the central celebration of the Border Guard. On 16 May 2017, the Grand Market in Zamość hosted ceremonies related to the central celebrations of the Border Guard. This event was a big celebration for border guards, residents of the region and the local community. The ceremony was honored by the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda, as well as representatives of government administration, local government and parliamentarians. In view of the above, I would like to express my deep regret at the absence of an invitation to such an extraordinary ceremony, although last year I expressed my wish in writing to attend the ceremonies organized by the Border Guard. Before the ceremony began, I tried to receive the appropriate invitation. Unfortunately, my efforts were futile. Being convinced that the celebrations are addressed to an open group of Members, I decided to take part in them, but I was not allowed in. The results also did not result in identification as a Member of the Republic of Poland. From the Deputy Director - Deputy Chief of Staff of the Chief Border Guard of Mr Mariusz Telepka, I heard that the guest list was consulted with Minister Mariusz Błaszczak and I cannot be allowed in. In my view, discrimination against Members of the opposition causes unnecessary escalation of conflicts and antagonisation of society. I would like to express my hope that similar situations will not take place in the future and that representatives of all political groups will receive invitations. At the same time, on the occasion, I would like to present to all Border Guard officers and their families and close wishes for all prosperity, strength and health to continue to work and work in the service of the Republic of Poland. The second part of the statement concerns a vote, in fact, a situation which took place before the vote on the Law on the legal protection of plant varieties. Mr Robert Telus accused me of caring for the interests of farming companies, not farmers. Here I would like to tell the High House and all of you that Mr Telus does not understand the very close relationship between breeding companies, Polish breeding companies and farmers. If we lead Polish breeding companies to disappear from the market, they will not be there, then farmers automatically lose good Polish varieties, they lose their ability to buy varieties at good market prices. They will be condemned to dictation of foreign companies, dictation of foreign seed companies, which will not have varieties adapted to our soil and climate conditions, which will cause problems with dreaming, drought problems, problems with optimal yield. At the same time, we have already sold SHiUZs, i.e. animal insemination companies, the largest company in Poland, the French. Now it is not strange that French farmers will not care about good breeds of Polish animals at the moment, because there is direct competition with Polish farmers. I wouldn't want the same thing happening to seed companies. Therefore, I believe that the adopted law does nothing, it is a law only to show farmers that it is supposed to care about them, without looking forward to the existence of Polish seed companies that will care about the Polish farmer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-25-sejm-42-2.u618	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 42nd session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 43rd session of the Sejm, appointed on 7, 8 and 9 June 2017, will be delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. I wish you parliamentarians a pleasant weekend while still present. Enjoy your rest, too, for your current staff. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 22 min 07]]
