ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to appoint Mr Małgorzata Golińska, Mr Łukasz Schreiber, Mr Kinga Gajewska and Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz as secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Małgorzata Golińska and Mr Łukasz Schreiber. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Małgorzata Golińska and Adam Andruszkiewicz. I consider the minutes of the 49th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. At the 49th meeting, the Sejm did not carry out a third reading of the draft law on amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the third reading of this draft law. The Committee on Culture and Media submitted a report on the draft resolution on the celebration of the 95th anniversary of the Association of Poles in Germany. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - the financing of educational tasks, - about the National Education Network, - on the amendment of the Tax Ordination Act, - amending the excise duty law and the law on the organisation of certain agricultural markets, - amending the Act on local taxes and charges, - amending the Road Traffic Law Act and certain other laws, - amending the Civil Register Act, - amending the Law on the Protection of Mental Health and certain other laws, - on the amendment of the Municipal Government Act, - ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe on the status of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe in the Republic of Poland, signed in Warsaw on 28 June 2017. The reports are printed in 1897, 1899, 1901, 1926, 1925, 1895, 1902, 1921, 1909 and 1920 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The Health Commission has submitted a report on the government draft law on basic health care. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in discussions on the committee's report on the draft law on ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe on OSCE status in the Republic of Poland. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention unanimously gave an opinion on the proposal to consider at this meeting information on the state of implementation of the Law on the Restoration of the Age of Retirement, which was proposed by Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. Formal proposals have been made by Members. Mr Paweł Pudłowski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u2	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to make a formal request to keep the part of the sitting that will take place on Thursday at 3 p.m. 2.30 p.m.... [[Scandal!]] ...and it's going to be about the Penal Code. Ladies and gentlemen, the Attorney General will be present at the time and I would like him to explain to us why the investigation that was previously closed has been renewed in relation to journalists who dared to publish negative articles concerning the SKOKs. This is in a situation where you block the establishment of a committee of inquiry on SKOKs, when we know that the cost of society borne by the Bank's Guarantee Fund for mismanagement in SKOKs is PLN 5 billion. There's nothing going on about chasing after those who really did it. You chase those who dare to write what he said, among other things. KNF. So I'm asking you to let the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General, explain to us why he's scaring journalists and not dealing with the real... Those who are putting us at great loss. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Don't be ridiculous.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u3	Yeah, it's a formal conclusion, Art. Paragraph 184. 3 point 2. Only, sir, in order for the formalities to be done, I would ask you to... I remind you of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 2: At the request of the Sejm Bureau or of a group of at least 30 Members, such a request may be adopted. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is the procedure. I will ask the members of the Sejm Bureau on a regular basis, but I think there may not be support here. Therefore, if by tomorrow at the latest by 3 p.m. 9 or 8.30 I will receive a proposal from a group of 30 Members, and tomorrow I will put this formal proposal to the vote. Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u4	On the basis of the article. 184 I ask for a break and a call for the Seniors' Convention to bow down once more to the question of a proposal on the agenda submitted by the Civic Platform. On 17 October, at the invitation of the President of the Republic of Poland, President Erdoğan's visit to Poland took place. As you know, the European Union is trying to make joint decisions with Turkey. As you all know, because I can't believe you don't know 50,000. Turkish citizens were arrested, 130 newspapers and Internet portals were closed, and 150,000. officials were kicked out of work after the coup that took place in July Ub. What happened in Poland is an extraordinary scandal. When the Union tries to reach a common position on Turkey, Poland breaks European solidarity - Poland, which should particularly depend on European solidarity in foreign matters, even when it comes to sanctions against Russia. In this case, we have an individual policy, a policy of attracting Turkey, which violates human rights, violates the principles of democracy, violates the principles of the Turkish Constitution. This is an irresponsible policy. I would like to draw attention to the fact that during this visit no constitutional minister took part in meetings with the President. [[How can you not?]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Prime Minister Szydło canceled her last-minute meeting with the President. [[The Minister of Agriculture was.]] Today, there is a need for the government of the Republic of Poland, the Council of Ministers, which is constitutionally responsible for conducting foreign policy, here in the High House, to make a clear presentation of the Polish position on European relations, European relations, I stress, relations with Turkey, so that we, as parliamentarians, can be clear about this issue by the Sejm and our European partners. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please include this item on the agenda of the Sejm. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u5	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you and your fellow Members that this issue was discussed at the Senior Convention meeting, which took place literally a few minutes ago, ended a few minutes ago. At that time I informed the Convention that I did not propose to put this item on the agenda because the President of the Republic of Poland was the organizer of the President's stay, or actually inviting the President of the Republic of Poland. [[Listen up, listen up.]] I asked the club to turn to the president. But... [[But this is the Polish Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, yes. As there is such a conclusion, I, then, ladies and gentlemen, will address the President of the Council of Ministers... [[Mr. Marshal, what an objection.]] ...to inform the Convention and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on this matter. We will not discuss and rely on media and press facts. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm filing the counterclaim.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will not vote on this proposal because there has been a meeting of the Convention on this matter. So that, Mr President, the proposal against it is unnecessary. [[Okay, but...]] Mr Sejm, if the Sejm as an institution that controls the Council of Ministers... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] ...he'd like to get information on this, please. And it is my duty to ensure that such information reaches Members. [[Bravo, bravo.]] Sir... Member or Member? ...Mr. Secretary for the reading of the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 10, - Public Finance - hour. 10.15, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 10.15, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 10.15, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 10.20, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10.30, - Extraordinary deregulation - hour. 10.30, - to the European Union in conjunction with the Committee on Foreign Affairs, at 3 p.m. 11.30, - Culture and Media - hour 12, - Legal notice - hour. 12, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 12.30, - Administration and Home Affairs together with the Commission for Communication with Poles abroad - h. 13, - Public Finance - hour. 13, - Infrastructure - hour 13, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 13, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 13, - Culture and Media - hour 14, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 2.30 p.m., - Health-- hour. 2.30 p.m., - Education, Science and Youth - hour 15.45, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 16, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 16, - Senior policy - h.m. 16, - Foreign Affairs - hour 4:30 p.m., - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 17, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 17, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 18, - Infrastructure - hour 18, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 19. At the same time, the following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Joint meeting of the Parliamentary Renewable Energy and Parliamentary Energy Team. Energy Winter Package - hour 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Oncology - hour 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Privatized Hospitals - hour 16, - Parliamentary Group for: Loreliosis - 3 p.m. 5:30.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u7	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on collective supply of water and collective discharge of waste water and certain other laws (Print No 1905). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment of Mr Mariusz Gajda to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I have the honour to present to you a government bill amending the Act on collective water supply and collective waste water discharge and some other laws. Although at the moment this law is subject to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction under the Law on Departments, according to the provisions of the Water Law of 20 July 2018 from 1 January 2018, the Minister responsible for water management will supervise collective water supply and waste water discharge. The amendment of this law is a consequence of two things: firstly, the consequence of the Water Law Act and secondly, the implementation of the recommendations of the Supreme Audit Chamber of 2017 concerning price formation for water supply and waste water discharge. The current arrangements for supervising and regulating the performance of collective water supply and waste water disposal tasks do not allow sufficient effective supervision of the performance of the tasks by water and sewage service providers. It is currently the case that the tariffs for water supply and waste water discharge, i.e. those prices paid by every citizen using these services, are approved by a resolution of the municipal council. At the same time, most water and sewage companies are majority or rather 100% owned by the same municipality. There is therefore a conflict of interest, namely that the person who sets the tariff himself approves the tariff. The situation is that, formally, the water and sewage company prepares the draft tariff and then the municipality board approves the tariff. This law introduces a fundamental amendment, namely the approval of tariffs will be carried out by the regulator of water and waste water prices. This regulator of water and sewage prices will be the director of the Regional Water Management Board of Polish Waters. Ladies and gentlemen! This law, in addition to the approval of tariffs, regulates two other matters in general. Firstly, the same regulator will give an opinion on the regulations for the supply of water and waste water. It is an extremely important document which prepares the municipality and which talks about the rights and obligations of both consumers and suppliers when it comes to water and sewage. It should be stressed that, in fact, water and sewage companies are monopolisists in their territory. There is therefore a need to increase surveillance. But it will only be an opinion, because these are the tasks of the municipalities themselves. It'll only be an opinion about the rules. The next regulation will be the approval of tariffs. Although this is a community's own task, a similar situation exists on the market for the supply of heat, which is also the task of the municipality itself, and the tariffs for heat are approved by the Energy Regulatory Office. So it's kind of an estimate of what's in the tariff range for heat. Now I'm going to be more specific about what these problems are. The regulation of the bill will aim at legal protection of the interests of the recipients of services by establishing an independent and specialised regulatory body which will carry out additional supervision over the implementation of collective water supply and waste water disposal tasks. The exercise of regulatory powers in relation to collective water supply and waste water disposal tasks will consist in particular of an opinion by the regulatory authority on the draft rules for the supply of water and waste water discharge and the approval of tariffs for collective water supply and collective waste water discharge. The regulatory authority's competence will also include the settlement of disputes between water and sewage undertakings and recipients of services and the imposition of fines in the event of failure to comply with the obligation to approve tariffs by the regulatory authority or to apply approved tariffs, in excess of the prices or rates of charges. The current market regulation model for the provision of water and sewage services does not provide objective or independent supervision in the field of collective water supply and waste water discharge. In accordance with the provisions of the Act on collective water supply, the regulation of the market was entrusted to the municipality and is based on the division of competences between the mayor, the mayor, the president and the council of the municipality. Regulation cited above. the laws assign to local government units a number of tasks to which tariff approval in particular is required. In the current state of law, the municipality approves the tariff for collective water supply and the collective discharge of waste water on the basis of the application submitted by the water and sewerage undertaking for the approval of the tariff, while it should be stressed that the services relating to collective water supply and the collective discharge of waste water are mainly provided by budgetary establishments or water and sewage undertakings operating in the form of commercial law companies in which the municipality is a majority or sole owner. Consequently, this situation could lead to unjustified increases in prices and charges for collective water supply and collective sewage disposal, as demonstrated inter alia. reports from the Supreme Audit Chamber. In addition, local government units, despite the available tools, do not in particular control the right to verify tariff applications. They often do not exercise their powers and thus do not sufficiently protect service users from systematic price increases. The average price of water and sewage disposal in 2008 and 2015 increased in Poland by more than 50%. Regulation on the procedure for the adoption of the rules for the supply of water and the discharge of waste water may also give rise to reservations. On the basis of current legal solutions, the municipal council, following an analysis of the draft rules for water supply and sewage treatment developed by the water and sewage company, shall adopt rules for the supply of these media. The lack of sufficient inquisibility and determination in the control of the draft rules in question by the municipalities' councils, as well as the lack of knowledge by the councillors of legal and material matters in this respect, may result in the rules being adopted being contrary to the rules in force. Furthermore, competence in resolving disputes between water and sewage undertakings and recipients of services is a problematic issue. The wide range of tasks in the field of collective water supply and waste water discharge assigned to the municipality authority may give rise to a conflict of interest between the parties: the municipality, the enterprise and the recipient of services. In view of the above, the disadvantage of the functioning water and sewage market model is, in particular, that there is no possibility of external participation, a specialised independent regulatory authority in the field of collective water supply and sewage disposal tasks, in particular the tasks related to the verification and assessment of tariffs, and the question of the rules governing the provision of these media, as well as the settlement of disputes between service providers and recipients of these services. So three things: the first - the rules, the second case is the tariff, the third - the disputes. The proposed law provides for entrusting the function of the regulatory body to the director of the Regional Water Management Board of the State Water Farm of Poland. Consequently, the Director will be entrusted with the function of a legal body to safeguard the interests of the recipients of services. As I said, the exercise of competence in relation to tasks will concern in particular these three issues: tariffs, regulations and disputes. Since the Polish Waters will be established from the new year, until the entry into force of the Act - and the entry into force of this Act is designed still this year - it is proposed that the regulatory authority should be the National Water Management Board for a period of about 1.5 months. In addition, we provide that the responsibility of the Regional Director of the Water Management Board will be to collect and process information concerning water and sewage undertakings, including in particular the publication of information on average prices of water supply and waste water collection and the preparation and publication of reports on operating conditions. I would like to say to you that - so there is no doubt - each tariff, each tariff application will be dealt with for each municipality, for each company separately. This will not be the same as in part in the Energy Regulatory Office that there is, as it were, one tariff applicable in the region concerned. Each tariff application will be dealt with separately because each water and sewage undertaking has its own characteristics and each water and sewage undertaking has different pricing. These tariffs amount to around 2 and 3 thousand. on a national scale and here there will also be some novelty, namely the tariff will be fixed not for a year but for 3 years, since the period of 3 years shows in more detail the costs and expenses of these companies, as well as possible profits. The Supreme Audit Chamber pointed out that, if excessive profits were to arise in relation to the assumed margin, the tariff should be reduced in the following period. A very important issue with regard to transitional provisions: cases initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of this Act are already subject to this Act, and if the municipality already has approved tariffs for next year, these tariffs will have to be verified by the water price regulator within 180 days. The draft law is compatible with European law. The draft amends three laws: the Act on collective water supply, the Act of 20 July 2017. Water law and the Act of 17 November 1964. Code of Civil Procedure. The appeal body for decisions in these cases, the first instance, will be the President of the National Management Board of Water Management of Polish Waters, and then, as far as judicial matters are concerned, litigation - competition court and consumers, I think that's what it's called. The proposed regulation will not have any financial consequences due to the fact that the regulator will operate within the budget of the proposed Polish Waters. This is an extremely important project for all citizens, for all residents using collective water supply and waste water discharge, i.e. for around 60% residents of Poland who benefit from this system. The point is that there should be no unjustified rise in water prices and waste water discharge, as indicated by the NIK report showing that this has been the case so far. It is not a law aimed at disrupting in some way the functioning of water supply and waste water collection systems, it is only intended to rationalise this so that users cover actual costs and that these costs are not excessive. I ask the High Sejm to pass this law. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u9	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Richard Bartosik, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u10	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the draft law amending the Act on collective supply of water and collective discharge of waste water and certain other laws. The presented project includes, among others, regulation on the supervision of the establishment of prices and charges for collective water supply and waste water discharge, as well as arrangements which will safeguard the interests of consumers of services provided by collective water supply and waste water discharge. The regulations introduced by this law will not impose additional charges on citizens or other public tributes. The draft law also sets out the terms and conditions for collective water supply intended for human consumption and for collective sewage disposal, including rules on the operation of water and sewage undertakings, the creation of conditions for ensuring continuity of supply and adequate water quality and reliable discharge and treatment of waste water, as well as the protection of the interests of customers of services, taking into account environmental protection and cost optimisation. The regulatory body will be the director of the Regional Water Management Board of the National Water Farm of Poland. The aim is to eliminate the risk of unjustified increases in prices and charges as well as in water collection and waste water collection prices. The regulatory body's task will be to assess draft rules for water supply and waste water discharge, to approve tariffs for collective water supply and for collective waste water discharge, and to resolve disputes between the water provider and service recipients, e.g. concerning the refusal of the conclusion of a water supply contract or the discharge of waste water by the undertaking, the cut-off of water supply or the closure of a sewage connection. Such decisions will be subject to appeal to the District Court in Warsaw - the competition court and consumers within 14 days. It will also be the task of the regulatory authority to impose fines for non-compliance with the obligation to submit tariffs for approval or to apply excessive rates. High Izbo! Water and sewage undertakings will be charged a fee for issuing a tariff approval decision. The company will also set a tariff for 3 years, which will allow the balancing of available water resources over a period of more than 1 year, which is important in the event of extreme weather events and will relieve companies from annual tariff setting tasks. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I ask you to continue to process the bill and to state that the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the draft law presented by the government. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u11	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Krystyna Sibińska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u12	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Print 1905 contains a government bill, but it doesn't really know what a project is. I'm gonna make a formal statement first. First there was a printing on the seym website, in which there was absolutely no justification. It appeared after the intervention of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. But are you sure this justification is for this project? I have big doubts because, according to the impact assessment, the person responsible for this project is Minister Smolinski from the Ministry of Infrastructure. Today you introduce him to Minister Gajda, but it's probably due to the fact that there were two projects. The first project was presented on 22 September and this project was sent to the opinion, while on 10 September a completely new project appeared. So, Minister, do you know which project you're talking about? 'Cause I have a lot of doubts about that. I will also say that no comments submitted by the institutions to which the first project was sent have been taken into account. Now, about the details. The idea of separating the competence of the municipality with regard to tariff regulation is good, but - as always in the projects of the PiS - there are bubbles here. The first is the issue of a tariff set for 3 years. Yes, the Prime Minister said that the price of water will not increase, but it will increase because companies, today setting tariffs for 3 years, will have to make some supplies to make it work properly. I do not know whether it is about concern about consumers or about concern about Polish Waters. In the explanatory memorandum, it states why this tariff is 3 years old: because companies will not have to engage each year in setting tariffs and the regulator will have to verify this. We're talking about VAT there that we can change the tariff if VAT changes. But will other factors related to the tariff affected by higher VAT also be able to change? What will happen to EU projects? Many companies implement these EU projects and in their financial analyses assumed that there would be a progressive increase in tariffs. It also assumed, for example, that the municipality would be able to pay into tariffs. There's no word on it here. What, for example? With the communal unions? There's no information either. There's a regulator coming up, like an outsider. The explanatory memorandum states that today there is no possibility for an external, specialised and independent regulatory body to participate. The regulator will be the director of PGW Water Polskie, who is neither specialized in this area, because Polish Waters are to manage water and not have economic supervision over enterprises, nor is it independent, because these institutions will be managed by party nominees who, I will remind you, will not even be selected in competition mode. There will be fees for decisions issued by the Polish Waters. Polish waters will draw money from everything, really it is just another brick for the money of Polish Waters. They're gonna punish companies. The company will have to pay a penalty of 15% income if it does not present the fare and up to 100,000. zł - if you do not provide information to Polish Waters. Look, guys, this is an assassination attempt. for Polish companies and it cannot be tolerated, because it is simply something that is unacceptable. Another thing. The regulator will be able to introduce temporary tariffs that will be in force without knowing how much, because the company will be able to have these requests returned and the temporary tariff will certainly not cover all the costs incurred by the companies. The last question is curial: the bill, if passed, will enter into force the day after the announcement. There's no time to prepare, no vacathio legis. Because this law is implemented without consultation, prepared in a hurry, the Minister - I am convinced - does not even know what is in this law because he did not do it. Without detailed analysis... It poses a threat to our businesses. Therefore, the Civic Platform Club is applying to reject this project, this legal bubble, because it is simply not suitable for further proceding. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u13	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Józef Brynkus, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u14	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz club15 concerning the Act amending the Act on collective supply of water and collective discharge of waste water and certain other laws, print No 1905. In the case of any contested law, the question should be asked who will benefit from it. After examining the bill, the answer to this question is simple: no one. Moreover, all entities involved in the subject matter will suffer losses. The smallest, because image loss will be borne by the applicant, which is the government side, worse, that actual, real losses will be borne by Poles and Poles - that is to quote someone. The draft law concerns the task of the municipalities themselves, i.e. meeting the collective needs of territorial communities in the field of water supply and waste water collection. It leaves the municipalities full responsibility for this task, but deprives them of the most important tool - the right to determine tariffs for water and sewage charges, as well as transfers the power to formulate an opinion on the rules of water supply and the reception of waste water to the government institution, which is the state company of the Polish Waters. At the same time, the institution shall have no responsibility for carrying out this task. The units of local government are therefore becoming completely non-free. So far, the municipalities' councils have decided on the price of water and sewage, and they have done so quite well. Some argue, recalling concrete examples, that sometimes unjustified costs were included in the price of water and waste water, including, for example, personal or depreciation. The Ministry has solved this problem by introducing a provision that depreciation will be subject to all investments and not only to the part financed by own resources. So why spoil something that has generally worked well for years? So far, the locals have been able to account for their landlords and councillors for their fees for water and sewage. The government proposed a solution to the storm that has been established for many years the order of functioning of communal communities in Poland. After all, the element of this order was among others. the provision of adequate water and sewage infrastructure to residents and, where necessary, the adjustment of water and sewage charges, the grant of water and sewage charges from the revenues of the local government units themselves. The adjustment mechanism is also fatal, i.e. opinions on tariffs for water and sewage. Their prices in local environments will be influenced by a government official who is only driven by the average price of water and waste water in Poland, and who is completely unaware of the local realities of water extraction and waste water discharge. The effect of the proposed change will be to transfer certain amounts from the municipalities' budgets to the state budget and to aggravate their financial difficulties, but this will not benefit too much. The fees to be paid by local government units to the state company of the Polish Waters will hardly cover the costs of handling applications submitted by water and sewage companies. This is acknowledged in the explanatory memorandum of the bill even by its applicant. So what's the point of this change? It will result in the municipalities being forced to subsidise water prices to a greater extent than before, which will result in measures that could have been spent on other tasks disappearing. The absurd assumptions regarding the preparation of this law are reflected in a section of its justification. The designer states that the lack of sufficient inquisibility and determination during the control of the draft rules on water supply and sewage disposal by the municipalities' councils, as well as the lack of knowledge among the councillors of legal matters in this respect, led the regulations adopted to be contrary to the applicable rules. It simply proves that the applicant does not know the local reality of Poland. Probably never just part of it. This legislation cannot be improved and must therefore be rejected. On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I apply for the rejection of the draft law in print 1905 at first reading. I'd like the government side to come to their senses and withdraw this bad project. It will certainly bring her recognition among all, and it will benefit the citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u15	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mark Owl, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u16	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the government's draft law on amending the Act on collective supply of water and collective discharge of waste water and certain other laws. In the beginning I would like to express my conviction that this law is to fulfill the dream of the power of Minister Gajda, about the construction of the PiS empire in the form of the Polish Water Company. I hope, Minister, that you will choke on this power, and quite quickly. Before I go to specific arguments, I will quote the provision of the Act of 8 March 1990 on the Municipal Government. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 7 we read: Meeting the collective needs of the community is one of the tasks of the municipalities. In particular, their own tasks include: water supply and water supply, sewerage, disposal and treatment of municipal waste water. You want to take away the most important element that local authorities have - water pricing. I thought you'd come up with such a ridiculous idea no one would be able to, but you're showing that you can. The Minister made it clear how this tariff is approved in the current legal state. He probably did not want to say one thing: that in the case of approval of the resolution by the council of the municipality, the voivode carries out legal supervision in this respect and if it considers that the tariff has been adopted inconsistently, it may simply challenge this resolution, it may repeal it. And on the basis of what is this tariff determined? This tariff is precisely established on the basis of the Regulation of the Minister of Transport of 2006, where all the indicators that can be included in the tariff are described very precisely. Few of this, last year, this government, the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction, amended this regulation, resulting in depreciation of the investments incurred being included entirely in the cost and not, as it originally was, only from its own contribution. I don't want to question this element because he seems just rational, but you're showing that you've had an impact on it, you've made these changes. The Minister spoke of an increase of 50% in prices, water and sewage charges, and you do not add that in the last few years municipal authorities, water and sewage companies with the support of European funds have incurred financial expenditures of PLN 70 billion and this increase in prices is largely due to the fact that they have carried out massive investments in the water and sewage sector. I must tell you that this is why Poland can boast today that it has one of the most modern water and sewage infrastructure networks in Europe. You simply want to stop this process of modernization of Poland to some extent. I'm going to list some of the elements that I have to talk about here as well. Some of them have already been addressed by my previous speakers. Firstly, I would like to say to you that you did not even have the courage to direct this project to a committee of common government and local government. You sent it directly to the Sejm, disregarding this opinion, which is a violation of the article. 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, My deepest conviction is that this bill is incompatible with the constitution. He's breaking art. 171 and Art. Two of these constitutions. Another issue, today the Regional Water Management Director has no potential to carry out this task. You are well aware of this, but you need resources to equip, maintain jobs at the level of PLN 9 million, which in consequence is saved. You want to draw this money from budgets, even from these water and sewage companies. Let me remind you that today, companies for tariff approval are not charged any costs by any municipal authority. But the real reason for this change is, as I say, like the unjustified desire of the Minister for the construction of the PiS empire. Mr. Minister, not so long ago, a month ago, in Gliwice, said very clearly: Our economic analysis shows that prices must be higher. Water prices. If the price of fuel is rising, there are no social protests. When You Talk About Growth [[♪ The bell ♪]] Water prices, they are. And that's why Minister Gajda needs full control to be able to bear the price of water without inhibitions, but very drastically look at other...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u17	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u18	...the indicators that are no longer subject to him.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u19	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Posel Club Modern application for rejection of the draft law from print No 1905 at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u21	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u22	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to present comments and views on the government draft law amending the Act on collective supply of water and collective discharge of waste water and certain other laws, print No. 1905. I will take advantage of the fact that my previous speakers have already spoken a lot about certain issues and have set out important problems, and I will start by saying: Minister, you are doing very well as Minister and as a member of her group, as part of this tape, in these pursuits, in those activities which are to show our local governments their place at all costs and how much you do not like them. After organizing a new education system, for which the local government paid for it, we are now moving on. Minister, is this a partnership? Minister, would you like to do this kind of business, because that's how you have to define where someone else would do the cost and revenue calculations? Is that how we respect local governments? Do we see a partner in local governments, or do we see an opponent? Or maybe, let's reach out and move on, we're going to do everything we can to get the local government to function as in the 1990s, but then they were the primary link of government administration? Now, back to the project, my club is against these regulations. I would like to point out that we will support the previous requests made by the clubs to reject this project. In our view, the introduction of a supervisory authority in this way is nothing more than providing measures for the established entity of Polish Waters. Who at the level of the voivodship in these units is prepared to undertake these tasks? Who will carry them out? And why should the municipality or water supply company receiving waste water pay PLN 500 for each such opinion? Why are we going in this direction to stop such well-functioning investments in this area? Do we not see what the municipalities were doing, what the unions were doing in order to attract funds for the modernisation of water supply networks, the collection of sewage, the construction of sewage treatment plants and the entire infrastructure in this regard? We ask: why? That's why to show that a government official will be more important than a government official? So where's the respect for the sovereign for the sovereign's decisions? After all, as we Members chose the sovereign, so the same sovereign chose the governor, the councilman in the commune, the councilman in the county, the governor and the marshal, etc. I think we should think about what we're doing. Minister, I have a question. Is the project of 22 September this year identical to this and contains the same records as the project we are debating today? And why didn't you take into account the position of the finance minister expressed in relation to this project? Why hasn't there been a public consultation? I'm already skipping consulting with local governments because they weren't there. What about consulting the water and sewage industry? Why didn't you address the comments of the Chamber of Commerce of Polish Waterworks? The club will support applications to reject this project at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u23	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Ireneus Gains, the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u24	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Act on collective supply of water and collective discharge of waste water and certain other laws. One of the most important objectives of the draft amendment to the Act is to monitor effectively the setting of prices and charges for collective water supply and waste water discharge. The project provides for solutions that will safeguard the interest of recipients of services provided under collective water supply and waste water discharge. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not true what my previous speakers said in the context of the disclaimer of powers and competences of local government units. The aim is to establish a market regulator for water supply and waste water discharge, as is the case with heat supply prices. The Energy Regulatory Office has an excellent role to play, and in this case it cannot be said that any powers or powers are received. or that the powers of local self-government units are restricted. Very often this happens - I know it also as a former self-government officer from my own experience - that these prices for water and sewage are a kind of compromise, of course, developed by the local authorities, by the mayor, the mayor, the mayor, the president, in agreement with the council, but in fact it is established somewhere in the privacy of local government offices with the presidents of water and sewage companies. [[At the session.]] [[The Council shall sit openly.]] And there is also a kind of, you can say, a compromise between the operation of a budget establishment or a municipal company, which deals with the supply of water and the discharge of waste water, and the interest, the collective interest of the residents of the municipality. [[There haven't been any problems so far.]] The High Sejm, even with the best wishes of local government units, executive bodies and law-making bodies, has to be noted that the current legal system lacks a market regulator which, once the institution referred to in the Act has been established, will be able to fulfil this space. I would like to remind you that, first of all, the opinion on the draft rules for the supply of water and waste water, the approval of tariffs for collective water supply and the collective discharge of waste water, which will take place once every three years, will also be a sort of stabilisation for the public, the local public, which uses these basic services, i.e. the supply of water and the discharge of waste water, and, finally, the settlement of disputes between water and sewage companies and the recipients of services. My esteemed speakers pointed to the interests of local governments as such, but let us not forget that the most important thing in the light of the provisions of the law and the whole idea that has been submitted here is precisely the interests of the inhabitants. [[Community residents.]] This is both the collective interest of local communities that benefit from basic municipal services as well as the interests of individual consumers, individual consumers. [[They're not asking for it.]] And I think that in this respect, regulation is primarily aimed at seeing the interests of society and individual, individual people. [[And where do they report this business? Who'd they report and where?]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Referring to the comments made by my previous speakers about the legal supervision of the voivodeship, which completes such supervision of resolutions taken by the municipalities' councils, it must be said that this is legal supervision, within the formal meaning, while the voivode does not examine the conditions which are responsible for the rates, does not examine the grounds for disputes which may arise, e.g. why an interested person who builds a single-family house in municipality X cannot, for some reason, obtain permission to join the water and sewage network. Such a person is doomed to wage long-term buoys in civil court with the municipality for basic goods, such as water supply or waste water discharge. Therefore, the proposal, which is submitted by the Government by the Ministry of the Environment, meets [[♪ The bell ♪]] with our approval and I would like to say that as the Circle of Members of the Free and Solidarni we will support this bill. I request that he be assigned to the committee so that the bill can get the best shape possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u25	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Ryszard Galla, a non-attached Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u26	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As a non-attached Member, I would like to refer to the Government's draft law amending the Act on collective supply of water and collective discharge of waste water, print No 1905. To begin with, I would like to convey my observations in general, using the statement in the explanatory memorandum that you, Minister, present. I quote: local government units, despite the available control tools, in particular in the form of the right to verify tariff applications, often do not use their powers and thus do not sufficiently protect the recipients of services from systematic price increases. Minister! High Izbo! I stand before you not only as a Member, but also as a long-term self-government officer, and most importantly - a representative, director, president of a water company. And I can say that the biggest problem for such an entity was the setting of tariffs. It was a gehenna, it was a road through torment, because there were different stages of verification of this price, different periods, starting with specialists, experts who came, checking the level of costs, calculation, but ending with councillors. Because it's not in the privacy of the office, Mr. Gaine... [[There he is, in government benches. He went into the back of his office.]] Speaking of which, I think he wants to be there really fast. [[It's disturbing.]] [[Don't disturb the Minister.]] Not in the privacy of the offices, but at meetings of the municipal council it was decided how much these prices would be. Many times, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the term of office, this price has not been changed for several years, for not only substantive but also political reasons, but certainly in one, I would say, in the defence of the rights of the recipients. [[Applause]] In my opinion, it has never been so that these prices are so drastic. Few of this, as representatives of these water supply managers, have been very often communicating, so there are various kinds of accomplices. We were also in the association of the municipalities of Prokado - I look here towards Mr Wilczyński, then the voivode, who had supervision of this union, who also was responsible for the price policy on the water supply. So, Minister, these words are not true here. And now, going to the details, I'm gonna start from the end-vacatio legis. In his speech, the Minister pointed out very clearly that we are probably moving a little too fast here, because in fact the Polish Waters will act in accordance with the Act from 1 January, and we are implementing this law the day after the signature of the President. So I guess... I can't answer the question of what the rush is. Probably what local governments are preparing at the moment, and they are adopting resolutions setting water prices so that these prices can still be valid for 180 days. The second element I would like to draw attention to is the establishment of a 3-year tariff period. Ladies and gentlemen, I speak again as a practice: programming costs and possible revenues for a period of 3 years in each company, and especially in providing services to society, is very difficult. It is enough that no one else, only the Polish Waters will change the fees for the collection of water and we are already falling into a trap which causes the costs to rise and the price is unchanged. I therefore wonder whether the government here envisages introducing, however, an amendment to the provision which would take account of these tariffs for up to 3 years. As far as the regulator is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, he is very strongly assigned to Polish Waters, RZGW, or as if he is standing on one side. Where is the independence here, I would say, where is the transparency in assessing these tariff proposals? The next element I would like to draw attention to is the issue of information points for service recipients. You write about it in your article. 27, too, I'd say, very general. We do not know how this task will actually be carried out here. Fairly speaking, I would say that if I were to vote in favour of such a bill, he must be, Minister, worked very hard, taking into account the votes of the local authorities and representatives of the bodies responsible for the supply of water or the collection of waste water. Otherwise, I will be forced to vote negatively on this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u27	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jan Klaviter, also a non-member Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u28	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I speak on behalf of the Right of the Republic. We believe that this project is not a well-thought-out project. It must be said that the principle of subsidiarity should be an essential element of policy. The government should be doing what the commune can't handle. You can't do or disenfranchise communes. Working 11 years as mayor of the city of Rumia, I was often nervous that Members know better than we do... [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] ...what's going on downstairs. They don't know better, they don't know. Unfortunately, this principle is still not respected, and it is the foundation of a healthy, meaningful action in society. Let's just say... Indeed, there were various arguments here - price increases, various types of investments. Colossal investments caused these prices to rise maybe 5% per year, but it was necessary to cover expenditure related to investments. I don't see any pathology here. It's not appropriate that on the basis of which there are cases of three, four, 10 municipalities out of three thousand or so... [[2.5.]] ...to establish the law. The law is established for the average municipalities, and in these cases pathological ones, which will always be - they were, are and will be - this, let's say, reacts differently. I watched the work of the Energy Regulatory Office for many years when I was mayor, and then when I was working in a mining company. I have seen that the Energy Regulatory Office works differently, often very unilaterally sets rules. This is not a good example in my opinion: the fact that the URE is here and it works, and that is what we agreed to, and now we are still limiting local governments. It's not like my previous speaker said that the prices are set in the privacy of the office. Even if it is a narrow group that discusses it, it is impossible for everyone to discuss it. We, however, limit the power of the inhabitants, so to speak. The inhabitants may come to the sessions of the commune council, where the price of water is determined, they may brag there, and they will not come to the Sejm. Therefore, this is not a step in the right direction, and excessive interference is a systemic sin. On the other hand, as far as the specific issue is concerned - if the government thinks it needs to change it and push it through, prices should not really be fixed for such a long time, because our economic reality is changing rapidly after all. Therefore, let them do so for a year and then allow inflation to increase these prices. If this has to be the case, it may be possible to make such an amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u29	Thank you very much, sir. Does anyone else want to ask a question? If not, I'm closing the list. 20 Members have joined the questions. Mr Ryszard Galla, a non-member, is the first question to be asked. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u30	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to refer to my speech, when I quoted part of the justification, to ask the Minister whether, in this connection, you carried out a thorough analysis which would indicate on what scale local government units do not use their powers to verify tariff applications, and if you have such discernment, I would say, within the voivodships, whether this is a national problem or an existing problem only partially. My second question would be information points for service recipients. Would you be able to determine today what the work of these information points will be, what their distribution will be, about the organisational sphere of these points, so that citizens can have the best possible access to these points? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u31	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jan Kilian, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u32	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The water and sewage sector is undoubtedly an important part of the national economy, and it is also a question of the safety of businesses, a single citizen. In part, the formal supervision of the voivode does fulfil these tasks in some way, but I would like to draw attention to one very important issue - the determination of the duration of these tariffs. The three-year obligation is, I would say, difficult to carry out is an important economic risk. But shouldn't it be here? [[♪ The bell ♪]] consider the possibility of introducing a period of up to 3 years? Or, if it is necessary to be rigid this period for it to be 2 years?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u33	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u34	It'll give you some stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u36	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This law is another stage of the struggle between the Government of Law and Justice and local governments, which have negatively assessed this law, as well as the industry's water supply organisations, including the Chamber of Commerce and the Polish Waterworks. Local authorities are denied competence, leaving them with tasks to carry out. Minister, in connection with the implementation of this law, will the economic consequences for municipalities and water and sewage undertakings, which will operate under uncertainty conditions due to the transfer to the State Water Farm of Poland of powers to determine the level of water prices as well as the arbitrary reduction of the tariff during its period of validity? Is it true that the solutions proposed in the Act can in practice lead to a breach of the basic principles set out in the Act on collective water supply and collective waste water disposal, which are continuity and reliability of collective supply? And is it true that the Minister of Finance has given a negative opinion on this law [[♪ The bell ♪]] financing new jobs? Where will these jobs be, the source of their funding, and for whom are they intended? Or for the new Misiewicz? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Azievicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u38	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The idea of introducing independent regulation into the water and sewage system is not a new idea. Such works have already been carried out during the reign of Jerzy Buzek. The essence of this solution is to introduce into the water and sewage system an entity which, in compliance with the requirements of independence and impartiality, would force undertakings operating under the conditions of a natural monopoly to act on a competitive market. For obvious reasons, the Polish Water Company does not meet this condition, which is why this project is really a caricature of solutions that are applied in a civilized world. In general, systems of independent regulation are introduced to encourage privatisation, such as: during the reign of Margaret Thatcher. My question is, is that your intention? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u39	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u40	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Water supply is the responsibility of the municipality itself, which is responsible for all the matters involved and, most importantly, bears full responsibility to the residents. The regulations governing the supply of water and the discharge of waste water are an act of local law which takes into account the conditions of the municipality concerned. So what's the point of this bill? There is no need for a central regulator, which is the Polish Water Company. The primary objective of this centralisation is price control. This is another step towards disenfranchising the local government and additionally costing it. I have questions. Does the government intend to take over water supply tasks, including investment in water supply, and intends to take responsibility for this area of activity? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the second question is, is this project in line with the constitution? Because there are great fears that it is not. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u41	Thank you very much, Member. Please, I invite Mrs Krystyna Skowronska, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u42	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Mrs Czernow has asked me very important questions. Firstly, this project is limited to the right of local government to determine local law, to determine the price of water. You're introducing a new regulator. If we were to analyze the Energy Regulatory Office, it would appear that there are the highest salaries. So you are creating a new institution today, for your officials, and the excess of administration and the excess of bad law should harm us. The young people sit at the gallery and listen. And how can from these tons of paperwork, without consulting the local government, talk about a fair lawmaking? Experts say that today investment needs are estimated at about PLN 27 billion. The state should focus on investment needs, on the support of the local government. And now for a period of 3 years of price regulation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's ridiculous. The price is regulated every year to influence. So either by specifying the price, at first we overcharge it, or if we fairly determine the price at the beginning, then maybe with the investments...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u43	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u44	...with depreciation, at other costs, we're short. Why do you introduce this important project without consulting experts, without consulting local governments...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u45	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u46	...who act on behalf of the residents? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u47	Thank you. I invite Mrs Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u48	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For 2 years as Law and Justice, you have been ruining our country step by step, taking over further areas of our freedom and self-government. Technically, you do it this way: in the justification of the next laws, you write about the fact that you want to increase efficiency, rationality, proper supervision of the tasks entrusted to different individuals. But what you have written in this explanatory memorandum is even bordered with the insolence and disregard for our self-governments, their knowledge, experience and competences. Well, we read about their lack of inquisitiveness and determination, as well as ignorance by the councillors of legal matter. As you say further, this means that the regulations adopted may conflict with the rules in force. And this is stated by people who repeatedly, recklessly and without any inhibitions break the principles of the fundamental law, that is to say, they break our constitution. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! I demand an apology. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Local authorities and remove these insulting words from the justification of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u49	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u50	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You are not ashamed that on such an important issue, the draft law on collective water supply and collective waste water disposal is not subject to public consultation both with the local government and with the water and sewage industry. This government's failure to comply with the Constitution is already a standard. But have you considered what will result in the failure to introduce vacathio legis in this bill? Unilateral determination of the provisional tariffs by the regulator of this misunderstanding. How will you, Minister, ensure the sustainability of projects co-financed by the European Union? Do you want to bankrupt water and sewage companies? Is that what you want? In my opinion, there is such a conclusion that you seem to care very much about it. I've done three times for myself. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have made a parliamentary interpellation, but without the minister's positive response. In addition, the inhabitants complain that they are burdened with unfamiliar water. The roar for residents without counters was up to eight cups. It's a very bad bill that shouldn't be processed today at all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u51	Thank you, Member. I invite Małgorzata Golinska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u52	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The PiS empire, the money-jump, the power-taking of local governments, the liquidation of local governments in general. In fact, the fact that the local government did not use its regulatory tools effectively, said NIK during its audit. [[In Lubuskie.]] No, not just in Lubuskie. Read it. That's one thing. However, the NIK also pointed out that it is possible that consumers are charged with costs that they should not be charged. These are irregularities. The NIK also pointed out that a conflict of interest arises when the local government is simultaneously a regulator and owner of the company and is designed to protect consumers' interests. [[And it's also made up of residents.]] That is why there is an independent regulator to prevent, but also to help local governments, but not local governments within the meaning of one mayor or president, but local governments within the meaning of the inhabitants. I invite you to my area: district Szczecinecki. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You'll hear what the people say. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u53	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Richard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u54	Mrs. Marshal! Blood storms when you hear that self-government is a conflict of interest because people rule themselves. They're in charge. How can you rule yourself in the PiS state anyway? [[Applause]] When such idiotic, psychic projects appear - unfortunately I have to say it - you have to ask the state of the applicant's mentality. [[Applause]] Minister! Don't you think self-government is one of the main principles in the Polish state? Why is there such a mania of regulating everything? After all, a project needs to be brought in so that the heat is not regulated. Elections are the regulator in local governments. Did you, Minister, attend one session of the commune council when the price for sewage and water is set? Did you hear what the councilmen said, how they control it? There's a regulator. These are elected councillors who do not allow extravagance in this regard. A bad, hopeless, stupid project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u55	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u56	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This is another act on centralization, and basically disenfranchising local authorities. Please note that many Members here from law to opposition, who are self-government and know what they are talking about, clearly criticise this harmful bill. But this bill has a purpose. Well, Minister, you know very well that as a result of the adoption of the Water Law Act and the establishment of the Polish Water Company, there will be an increase in water collection prices. And since there is an increase in water intake prices, the water prices set by the local government will automatically increase. You want to influence the central regulation to force the local government to set water prices below costs and thus to subsidise water prices by local authorities. Because you do realize... [[♪ The bell ♪]] You are fully clear that the rise in water prices will result from your wrong laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[That's the point.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u57	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszka, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u58	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The rules governing the supply of water and the discharge of waste water as acts of local law constitute documents of a strict nature the local authorities, taking into account the specific circumstances of the municipality, which are best understood by the local authorities. For this reason, it is systematically appropriate to leave the full authority in this respect at the level of the municipalities. It is the municipalities' council which ultimately determine the prices of water and the drainage of sewage from the sewers. They see best the need to be reasonable in deciding the price level, they respond to the residents. I appeal to the Minister: Stop, there is no need to introduce an additional element in this process, the participation of the central regulator. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u59	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u60	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A few questions have already been asked here. Minister, first of all, why do you want to take back something that really belongs to the heart of the self-government. I've been a journalist for years, I've seen in the community council sessions how the buoys are rolling there. And the buoys are because it's a political tool. The price of water is a very serious tool in the political campaign, in the election campaign. Isn't it so, Minister, that you want to run a national election campaign in this way? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u61	Thank you very much, sir. And I would like to invite Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u62	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear young people at the gallery! My question. Why is the Ministry of Environmental Protection rather than protecting itself from rising water and sewage rates by extending the depreciation time of investments, which would guarantee lower costs, introducing a solution to increase them? So this is actually an increase in the price of water and sewage, which will affect the lives of Polish families, but also manufacturing companies will have to increase the prices of their products, food and other products for which they use water. Is that supposed to be a good change for our sovereign? As city councilman in Koszalin many times... Let me put it this way, the biggest discussion was after the water price increase. The city council gave an opinion, and the price of water is determined by the majority of the Sejm here. It's such a paradox. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I thought we were getting whipped for what the Sejm did. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u63	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Dorota Rutkowska, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u64	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Here one of the Members referred to the URE as such a positive example, but, ladies and gentlemen, the formation of the Energy Regulatory Office was a process, while the PiS government wants to create a new regulator at one meeting of the Sejm. It's unimaginable. Why, Minister? Because there's no money left to run a new state water farm. Minister, do you think that the Polish Waters will actually be the right institution to set tariffs for water and waste water discharge? Convince us. Convince the local government that it will be a specialized and politically independent body. I think it's going to be very difficult for you to convince these too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u65	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u66	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Please provide these articles, those provisions that will help local governments to carry out their own task, which we are talking about today. Please tell me, Minister, how you want to help local governments and locals. After all, water is something that affects every inhabitant, without it life is simply impossible. Please indicate how much it will cost for the administrative and price-setting body to check the rules of procedure for how much it will cost. Who's gonna pay for this? You're introducing another tax on the back so that the residents, the recipients, who use this water, pay for this body. Today it's all in the hands of local governments. Minister, why are you afraid of consulting this project with local governments? Why are you afraid to consult this project with the communal unions set up for this purpose, with the companies that operate? Why did you give up on this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What's the reason you're hiding the project and bringing it to the Sejm quickly, and not using the consultation? So many amendments, so many comments to this project were made by the Polish Waterworks. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u67	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jerzy Wolf, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u68	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! That's right, water supply. this is the task of the commune itself, while it seems that due to such a wide range of water and sewage prices that exist in Poland, and water can cost several zlotys and dozens of zlotys... [[There are different shots.]] ...similarly with sewage, there is a sense of a regulator who would influence it, to pay attention to the range of these prices. On the other hand, Minister, you make it easier, as it were, to solve a problem that has often been a nightmare of communal councils, about the obligation to adopt water prices. Shouldn't we introduce a two-step setting of water prices? First, the municipalities would issue an opinion, a resolution on this matter, and then Polish Waters as a regulator would ultimately approve this price, because this is how you remove responsibility from the municipalities' and local authorities' councils in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u69	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Barbara Dziuk, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u70	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! So many negative speeches of the total opposition here, and I have a fundamental question. Minister, aren't those regulations that we're putting in place now that the predecessors are behind schedule? Do we adapt Polish law to European Union law? Second question: Will these regulations mean that the dividends that were paid to local governments at the end of the year to individuals will in some way be passed on to the modernisation of water infrastructure? And the third key question: Will the well-being of the inhabitant be taken into account for these changes so that prices do not rise drastically, as the Tarnowski Mountains are also an example? Minister, thank you for the change. Just consider in the RZGW Regulation that Silesia is one region. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u71	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Marek Owa.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u72	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! After your speech, a man needs a moment to calm down. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Did she make that impression?]] Minister, in your statement of reasons, you said that the regulator must be completely separated from what has an impact on some cost indicator to determine this indicator. According to the Act Water Law, the director of the Regional Water Management Board in the company Water Polskie will charge a fee for water collection. And this water intake fee will be one of the components of the water cost that will be prepared, I believe, on the basis of the same criteria that are today. How, then, will you demonstrate the independence of the Regional Water Management Board Director in determining the price of water? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will you confirm the fact that the variation in price levels - mainly for the discharge of waste water, not water - is caused by a dispersed network, particularly in rural areas? Do you have any information on how many municipal authorities pay for the collection of waste water to households and how much do these measures supplement the approved tariffs at a lower level? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u73	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u74	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, during your speech, you raised this theory, it seems, the problem is that these water rates have been rising in recent years. I'd like to ask if this is your private opinion or if you're basing it on specific information. I'm talking about the fact that it's valid. Do you think those raises that have been in recent years have not been justified? I refer to very powerful investments in the infrastructure that have been implemented. It seems that the Minister absolutely does not see or does not want to see that the huge costs of building infrastructure must be included in the price of water. Do you think that this new regulation, the fixing of water prices by you, will allow these infrastructure costs not to be taken into account in the price of water, which may cause them to be lower? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u75	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Listening to the justification of the Minister, which was very difficult for him to convey, it was evident that I had the impression that the Minister did not really understand what he was talking about, because I did not think that he would make such wilful arguments, e.g. That the councilmen are irresponsible. Does that mean they're less intelligent than officials? The councilmen are responsible because they represent the residents. [[Applause]] One thing has to be said: the Minister doesn't understand what he's saying. At one point, he said that this law was to rationalise the water supply and sewage management. Minister, you've made a mistake. This law is supposed to nationalise the economy that the local government is running, not rationalize it. Second thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You said there were no financial consequences. Well, these financial consequences are. They are the opposite, because it will be the tide to this institution of Polish Waters, which you have called. The cost will be borne by the residents. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u77	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u78	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The fact that the Ministry does not really know what it has written down in this law indicates that it introduces an unknown additional element of the application for the tariff approval. The proposal requires information on quantitative and qualitative balancing of surface waters and groundwater. However, this information is in possession, in accordance with the provisions of Water Law, of the Regional Water Management Boards of the State Water Farm of Poland. Why are you asking the applicant to give you the information you already have? In general I wonder, since the Law and Justice want to decide everything, even how much we will pay for water - I guess the only person who gives such instructions or dispositions and sets all the rules is Mr Kaczyński - does that mean that Mr Kaczyński will determine how much Poles will pay for water? The question is, isn't this going to be used for political purposes... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[That's a mean thing to say.]] ...and in the municipalities ruled by the opposition, the water charges will be higher, and where the PiS rules, they will be lower? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u79	Thank you very much, sir. [[So they're going to be lower all over Poland.]] I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Here you go, Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u80	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I know everything has been said, but you have to ask these questions here because this project is dramatic. The main objective of the project, as you said, is to standardise water and sewage services, but the cost of providing services in different localities is difficult to compare across the country - it is obvious - because they depend on local hydrological, geological and geophysical conditions. How does the government want to ensure that the proposal to set up a central regulator in the water market eliminates the price difference for water supply and waste water discharge? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u81	Thank you very much. The last question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Truskolas, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u82	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Is it true that e.g. The water price in Bialystok in Podlaskie Voivodeship will no longer be decided by the City Council of Bialystok, which is also from PiS? Ladies and gentlemen, it follows that you do not trust your councillors. Some activist of PiS-owski, who will be the director of the Regional Directorate of Water Management Company Polskie, will determine this price. I know you're fighting local governments, I know you're trying to take away their powers, but in this case, you're punishing your councillors? I don't know how to explain it rationally. You need a new institution because your activists no longer belong to the Treasury companies, and you want to create this institution so that other PiS activists can find a place to work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u83	Thank you very much. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment of Minister Mariusz Gaida to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u84	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, For starters, I'd like to say again why this bill. Well, in the objective research of the Supreme Audit Chamber, it was stated that local authorities - and just the opinion of these councillors - are prescribed from the report of the NIK; it is what you are outraged about - not exactly, they do not control these tasks everywhere, especially water prices. [[Examples?]] Here you go, examples. That's what I opened up on the Internet. Saur Neptun Gdańsk finances a marathon, finances various kinds of cultural and sports events. [[Voice from the room: But is that bad?]] I understand, he can finance, but why should all the residents pay for it? [[What about KGHM? Orlen?]] This is one of those examples. There are many examples of this - and this is demonstrated by the Supreme Audit Chamber - that various types of events going beyond the activities of the water and sewage undertakings are financed from these sources. [[Billboards, among other things.]] On the websites of most water and sewage companies in large cities we can read what the profits of these companies are. The Supreme Audit Chamber points out that these profits are excessive profits, which are not intended for investment at all. These are often dozens of times. - or several hundred-million-dollar profits that are not allocated to investments, e.g. for dividend payments or various activities not related to the activities of water and sewage undertakings. After all, in the energy industry so-called. Cross-financing, i.e. financing of activities not of energy companies, is severely punished. There should be at least this mechanism here. [[But there's an anti-monopoly office.]] The municipalities that prepare tariff applications are fair, fair, and have nothing to fear. And they're not afraid. I would also like to be clear... Here the answer to the question of why there is now such a version of the project, and before that it was different. Now there is a version of the project because the previous version was indeed incompatible with the constitution, which was highlighted by the legislators of the government legislative centre. No tasks are being taken away from the municipalities at the moment. This is an opinion of the Rules of Procedure and it is further an act of local law. Of course, the municipality council has the right not to take this opinion into account, but the rules of procedure are assessed. As far as tariffs are concerned, it is not that the director of the regional board will impose these tariffs. He will only approve them, he will approve the tariff application prepared by the council of the municipality. It is merely to approve and check that there is not there - in the justified costs referred to in the regulation; there is a catalogue - hidden certain costs unjustified, which would be a burden for residents, Poles and Poles. That's what this is all about, to avoid unjustified costs. Because at a reasonable cost, it could be... Let's assume theoretically: you can have 20 vice presidents in a large company who will earn several tens of thousands of zlotys. It is also cost then, but in our opinion it is an unjustified cost, because there is no such need. Different kinds of things. Whether it's justified to buy one or another of these cars is also debatable. [[That's what happens in energy.]] Now I wanted to say, as far as the Polish Waters are concerned - I am going to address the questions even more in detail - that there are no new jobs here. Yes, the applicant, then the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, wanted to increase the number of jobs, but during the course of government work it was decided that the Polish Waters within the framework of these posts, which are established by the Water Law Act, had to cope with this issue without increasing the number of posts. And so it will be. Don't be afraid that there will be no humans, nor be afraid that they will be the Bears. This can't be... [[Songwriters.]] [[Voice from the hall: the Bear.]] [[Songwriters.]] You can, ladies and gentlemen, do all kinds of word puns. I don't want you here to insult them maybe, which is why I won't... I'll leave that alone, no comment. In any case, it will be located in the Polish Waters, it will be located in the Polish Waters as part of the existing planned jobs, i.e. as part of the posts of the current employees of regional water management boards and workers who will pass from the marshals from the management boards of melioration and water equipment, as well as from the old houses. According to the Act, there will be no increase in administration. I will now try to answer specific questions. Mr Galla asked for an analysis on the basis of which we find that these prices are, are, are, are, in fact, overpaid. It's not, like I said, my invention, it's just that. reports of the Supreme Audit Chamber, as well as complaints to the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. The bill was prepared in cooperation with this office, which, on the basis of its own experience, presented a very large number of complaints with some legal solutions. Information points. Information points will be on regional water management boards, eleven, but applications can also be submitted via the Internet as well as in any water surveillance. These water surveillance and their subsidiaries will be around 200 on a national scale. Mr Kilian asked for this period of 3 years, said that this period of 3 years is too long, right? We're gonna lean on this on the committee. Indeed, there may be doubts here, but the legislator was also aiming to stabilise these prices and therefore there is a proposal of 3 years. Mr Bańkowski then asked, and later it was also, about the Chamber of Commerce of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, the subject of this water price regulator was raised in May Ub. in 2016 at the water and sewage fair in Bydgoszcz. I must tell you that the reaction of water and sewage companies to the rise in water prices, and then even bigger in the draft Water Law and the Chamber of Commerce, which surprised me, was completely indifferent. They weren't interested that these water prices, water resources would increase. Then in the evening I was on television and for the first time I spoke publicly about the water price regulator. The next day, no one in the infirmary would talk to me. What's that? You know what I mean. The point is that the Polish Chamber of Commerce, with which we tried to talk, conducted a lobbying, lobbying for the interests of water and sewage companies, because it is known that if in the big city the water and sewage company has a profit of tens of millions, no one wants to give it up with such a great profit. I wanted to say a very important thing here, too. Indeed, they are companies governed by commercial law, they must act in accordance with the company code, i.e. they must not have losses, but on the other hand they are companies in some sense of general interest. If we had allowed power companies to do this, the price of electricity would have been even higher than at the moment if this regulator hadn't been there. This is a similar situation. Mr Aziewicz said that this would lead to privatisation, and Mr Lassota said that this would lead to nationalisation. Members, please decide to work together on a common position. [[I was asking about intentions.]] Will it be privatisation or maybe nationalisation after all? It's really hard to answer such questions here. [[It's about intentions.]] And then again, there are questions. Rules of Procedure - act of local law. Everyone says: the company Waters Polskie, a state company Waters Polskie. I would like to stress here that this is a state legal person in the public finance system: the State Water Farm of Poland. Does the government intend to accept these tasks? It does not intend to take over these tasks, these are the tasks of local governments. Once again, I stress: tariff proposals are being prepared by local governments and local authorities. The resolution of the municipality council is merely the approval of this tariff. Indeed, here one of the gentlemen, Mr Wilk, spoke about this being an opinion to leave the decision. That was my first idea too, my personal one. [[It's a two-way street.]] Anyway, for a long time, I had this idea, but the lawyers came to the conclusion that it wasn't possible. I don't want to discuss it here anymore. That's how the government adopted the project, and that's how it has to be for the time being. Of course, you Members can make all kinds of proposals during your legislative work, because that is what Parliament is for. Compatibility with the Constitution - Mrs Skowronska. What I said was in the explanatory memorandum: you do not take away your own tasks from the municipalities, but just the same, in line with the approval of heat tariffs, this is the approval of water tariffs. Again, there was a question about regulations, a question about consultation with the water and sewage industry, i.e. the Chamber of Commerce of Polish Waterworks. What I said earlier: for six months we talked, then I had to decide that it would be too lobbying activity, which is why then it is necessarily a conflict of interest and there is nothing to be deceived. There have been statements that this is a stupid project - Mr Wilczyński. I don't know how to answer that. That's your own opinion. The Member has the right to speak of every thing, which means that someone is stupid, maybe someone is stupid, it is not, because he could give you an address to the court, but that something is stupid - it can be said that something is wise, stupid, proper, wrong. Just as Mr Kazimierz Baszko said here: stop. Again and again, Mr Skutecki, Mr Rometki from Kukiz.15 - that tools are being taken away from local governments. How do you take the tools to local governments if it's just an approval? And the fact that such a regulator will arise... I'm guessing the communities that've been taking care of this unrecognizablely so far... I'm not saying all of them. There are very reliable municipalities, there are very good tariffs. But there's nothing to be fooled by if there was no control tool, it's part of the communes, some of the councilmen did it wrong. As there will be a regulator, I hope that greater work will begin, greater reliability in the approval of these tariffs. Mr Owl and earlier - my empire. Mr President, you have an empire, too, apparently, but I don't know what you mean. This isn't my empire. It is a government of law and justice, a legal authority, not an empire. As regards water balancing - Mr Meysztowicz - I would like to say that this is balancing under a water law permit. As part of the water law permit, I know how to do this, and we need to balance water resources with needs. And that conclusion also includes... It's real now. On the part of the water price regulator, i.e. Polish Waters, will only check whether this balance sheet has been drawn up reliably. But this is not going to affect the price of water, more on the company's agenda. Mrs Lieder - that the central regulator... What I said earlier, I do not know if you have listened. For each municipality there will be a separate tariff. For each municipality, for each undertaking. Each company reports this tariff and it will be validated, checked for compliance with the law, also for substantive compliance, and will only be approved, i.e. 2,3 thousand. Water tariffs. It is all the more untrue what Mr Truskolaski says - that the Director will set the price of water. After all, ladies and gentlemen, if you read this project well, you will see that it is only the approval of the tariff, the legal approval, in accordance with certain economic principles, according to the fact that this tariff reflects the actual costs, all costs, investment costs, operating costs. As far as the share of water prices from water resources is concerned, I would like to say that these water prices are not set by the director of the regional water management board, but by a regulation of the Council of Ministers, which applies throughout the country. So that there is no conflict of interest in this respect and this project is absolutely justified. In fact, I think I picked up most of the threads. Once again, one of the Members later explained that when it comes to the supervision of the voivodeship - Mr Owa in his earlier speech, presenting the position of the club, he asked about it, he said about it - this supervision of the voivodeship is strictly legal. In fact, as far as most of the questions that have been repeated are concerned, the matter has been clarified. If you consider that my explanations are insufficient, I kindly ask you to address these questions in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u85	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. The Public Finance Commission submitted a report on the Government's draft law amending the Individual Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law on the financing of educational tasks (prints No 1837 and 1897). I ask Mr Kazimierz Moskal to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u86	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, I have the honour to present a report on the government draft law on the financing of educational tasks, print No. 1837. The first reading of the government draft law on the financing of educational tasks took place at the 48th meeting of the Sejm on 28 September 2017. The draft law was also sent to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. On 29 September, an extraordinary subcommittee was set up at the joint meeting of the committee for the consideration of a government draft law. The extraordinary subcommittee at its meeting on 3 October considered the government draft law, while on 10 October the joint meeting of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy adopted the report of the subcommittee, as well as several amendments to the Act. These amendments are orderly, precise, editorial and legislative and substantive. The joint committee's work has resulted in the bill being submitted. On behalf of the joint committees, I ask the High Sejm to approve the attached bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u87	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Anna April, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u88	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the honour on behalf of the club Law and Justice to present the position of the club in relation to a very important bill, a draft law on the financing of educational tasks. I would like to stress that this law was produced by a team set up in November ub. at the Minister of Education, a team composed of experts from the Ministry of Education, representatives of local governments and trade unions. At the same time, I would like to remind you that many meetings have been held between experts from the Ministry of Education and self-government experts. The draft law also takes into account the indications of the Educational Research Institute and indications resulting from the reports of the Supreme Audit Chamber. This Act does not practically apply to education subsidies, but as announced by the Minister at the end of her term of office, a new law on the education system will be presented to the High House. Today's project refers to very specific components of the education system and is limited above all to what local authorities have been waiting for for for many years, i.e. the issue of sealing and ordering grants. I would just like to present to you cases relating to these four grants, because the law has 147 articles and no one can discuss the whole law within 5 minutes, but at least I will refer to the issue of these grants. The first grant is a textbook grant. In short, it can be said: less bureaucracy, more autonomy and flexibility for the Director in decisions relating to the textbook grant. Another grant is a pre-school grant. There's been a lot of trouble and misunderstanding between the municipalities. The municipalities discussed who would pay the grant, where the kindergarten was located in one municipality, and the host body or body that decided on the network was another municipality. The Act sets out the situation, i.e. it will be so that the grant will depend not on the location of the facility but on the operator and the registrant. Another grant is a scholarship grant. It gives poorer local governments a chance. The Act sets out an algorithm that allows local governments to propose a proportionally smaller contribution so that local authorities can benefit from this grant and, above all, to make grants to children, to the local community. I think this is a very important change, because it is a change for the good of children and for our comfort, because we will not be ashamed to admit that such subsidies are returning to the state budget. And the last grant for non-public or public facilities run by entities other than self-government. There are many changes in this area. These changes are a response to the demands of local government officials, because this grant caused many conflicts and even led to court proceedings. That is why the Act gave up the definition of the type of school, because nobody really knew what the concept of a school meant and the grants were charged in different ways. The grant will only be linked to a subsidy plus a specific indicator. In the case of these schools, ladies and gentlemen - and this is very important information - garbage contracts are also ending. The teacher will be employed in accordance with the Labour Code. The Act indicates that the grant will be settled in the case of registration in the educational information system, i.e. that only those entities who will be in the system by 30 September will be accounted for will indicate how many students have and how many teachers they employ. The Act also gives a lot of freedom to local authorities, who will be able to control at different times how the grant is implemented. It will be divided, will be paid in two tranches, of course, when the entity is registered in the educational information system. Then the grant will depend on the level of pay. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very necessary bill, a law for which local government officials are waiting. I think the teachers are waiting for her, too. The bill itself introduces several important changes to the Teacher's Charter. I would like to remind you of a new addition to the outstanding work or to the time of the teacher's work. And here we have a weekly mandatory time for the teacher's teacher, [[♪ The bell ♪]] speech therapists, psychologists. However, it is difficult, ladies and gentlemen, as I said, that in the course of the discussion, 147 articles did not make some comments, which were reflected in the amendments tabled. I'd like to make six amendments at the moment and put the marshal on your hands. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u89	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Ursula Augustyn, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u90	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, if someone had listened to the information that had just been given, they would have thought, and rightly so, that what you're talking about is very good solutions. Only as always, the devil is in the details. And of course, you don't talk so much about what's not so good anymore. So first of all, I would like to say that you have such a tendency to hide something under other names. This law should not be called the law on the financing of educational tasks, it should be a grant law - and here I agree with the Member - everything is okay - but it should also be called a division law, so as not to mention the segregation of teachers. Previously, when the bill on six-year-olds was discussed, the minister hid a mechanism so cleverly there that allowed the parole officers to be thrown out and invited those you want to cooperate with. Now you're gonna do the exact same thing. Now you are talking about financing, and you are hiding in this law solutions regarding the Teacher Card, which we should discuss, we have no doubt, unless all the clubs say that the changes to the Teacher Card need to be discussed and that these changes need to be introduced, but not in a quiet way, and you cannot put them somewhere in the hundred and forty articles of the Act on the financing of educational tasks. This law should actually be called a non-financing law, especially promised to teachers raises. That should be the title of this bill. The Minister and the Prime Minister spoke about the fact that teachers will already receive 5% increases from next year. It's just that there's no sign of these raises in the education grant, they'll be gone from January, probably from May, if they're at all, and when they're from May, it's not gonna be 5% anymore. Only 2.9%. If we count off the 2.9 percent inflation, that raise is going to make it a huge zero. Really. You're just messing with one pot and you think if you mess with that pot, that's what the money's gonna come from. And above all, you underestimate the intelligence of society because you think people will believe it. They're gonna believe that teachers are gonna get some gratification. Well, you're so messing with this bill that you're taking away, for example. development allowance, right to a dwelling, right to a plot. Okay, all right, I get it. Anyone who rules has the right to do so. But I don't understand why you're taking that money from your teachers. Since in this act you extend the career promotion of a teacher from 10 to 15 years, it would be more decent to give the money you take here, for example. Intern teachers, because you've been prolonging their internship for a whole year. Well, if you're taking them, where is the money gonna go? Why doesn't an intern get that money? You extend your career promotion period - okay, you also have the right to do so - but at the same time you do not say that at each stage of your career promotion you will pay teachers these higher amounts later. Later you will do this, unfortunately, without a doubt, and you will be turning the teachers' money, and you will also be turning the money for this reason, that you are changing the payment system from the month to the month. I also understand that this can be done, which is why we are proposing an amendment, how to do it wisely, giving teachers one extra salary. Well, because you have an increase in the budget, there's a lot of money, so why shouldn't teachers who aren't guilty of the fact that this payout system is changing, you're extending the payout period to 34 days, and that means that for a few days each month, you're going to be trading the millions due to teachers? It's really inhospitable, indecent. And really not elegant and indecent is what you also introduce in this law, namely mandatory assessment every 3 years, as if the work of teachers has not been evaluated so far. I'm sure she wasn't judged in the way you're proposing, because you're proposing to judge an ethical, moral attitude now. As far as I know, there are disciplinary committees working all the time, which, in situations like this, when needed, deal with such matters. I hope there's as little of them as possible. But to judge every teacher ethically? His moral evaluation is made according to what criteria, who determines these criteria? You're also giving this authority to the probation officer. Congratulations, for example. Małopolska curator of education is now interfering so much with what is happening in public life, that he even censored whom the Jagiellonian University invites to his meetings. How is this person, e.g. The unbeliever, he's an atheist, it's your parole officer who publicly says that belzebub invites you to college and that she's protesting. Well, if you guys are going to separate teachers like that, thank you kindly. This bill is not a law that can be accepted. And no matter how much is in this bill [[♪ The bell ♪]] positive solutions, she is simply unacceptable. Your Marshal, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I would like to make the amendments we discussed. My previous speaker did not even wonder that they were very strongly discussed during the meeting of the Education Committee. We really think that hiding bad, bad, people-sharing solutions to some laws that are called "no funding for raises" shouldn't happen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u91	Thank you very much, Member. [[Madam, the rapporteur for the committee...]] Please, Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u92	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, Madame, this example of the activities of your curator in Małopolska is not reprehensible, on the contrary. I don't think you know the person to be a guest of the Jagiellonian University and its pseudo-scientific production. [[The parole officer shouldn't really interfere.]] No, ma'am, he should speak, because in this case it is also about which teachers the institution teaches. But the problem is... [[The university is independent.]] ...anything else. You have to think about what you're saying. [[Applause]] [[This is important. It's important.]] I know this work. You don't know it. You read in the Election Gazet that this person was not simply accepted. Yes, and that is the only positive argument for you. You just need to know the content of this person's scientific production. I'm afraid... [[The voice from the hall: The Lord ate all his senses.]] ...I must say that I know and accept what your parole officer has done. With regard to the contested law, I must say that the purpose of this law is to organise legislation on the financing of educational tasks. This is a noble goal, but on this occasion the legislator also proposes solutions beyond the title of this law, primarily related to the Teacher's Charter. I am aware that this is a clever solution, although not entirely appropriate and justified. I am also aware that if we simply introduce changes to the Teacher's Charter, there would be very serious resistance in which, for example. The argument of a school strike would be applied very often. For example. teachers themselves are aware of the anachronisms of the Teacher's Charter. However, the law under investigation contains many good solutions for pupils, their parents, the Polish education system and local government units, as well as other entities running schools. It simplifies e.g. settlement of a special-purpose grant to equip the school with textbooks and exercise materials. It introduces a uniform salary for specialists' teachers throughout Poland. It obliges school leaders to enter into employment contracts with teachers rather than trash. We believe that regulations on the conditions for giving leave to teachers should also be assessed in a positive way. What causes controversy is giving up funding for domestic education as part of preschool education. The Kukiz Club15 will present an amendment and ask for its adoption. I don't think it's gonna hurt the finances of the state's education. Another important issue, but still questionable in some circles, is the changes that have so far been regulated by the Teacher Card, such as modifications to the teacher's career promotion path. It is evident that care about the quality of the teacher's work and, therefore, concern for the welfare of the child is in favour of their introduction. But the legislator himself weakens this argument by saying that this solution will result in savings that can be allocated to the additional remuneration of outstanding diplomat teachers. The problem is that these savings will continue to exist until the temporary process of the extended promotion of a professional teacher has been settled. In our opinion, such educational 500+ should cover all groups of teachers, including those contracted and appointed. Another point is that, in fact, this solution will only appear from 2020. In addition, it makes sense to extend your career promotion time. There's a problem with the criteria for evaluating the teacher's work. There are too many, and some of them are discretionary. It's a good thing, though, for example. The so-called evaluation is discontinued. work evaluation achievements and that this evaluation will be mandatory and systematic. It will do no harm to anyone, and the disciples will benefit. It is also positive to look at the proposal to pay the teacher's wages from the bottom, not in advance, for the work actually done and not for the willingness to provide it. Of course, at the time of the introduction of this system there will be some difficulties, but these are technical problems that can be overcome. It is difficult to accept the amendments introduced by this law to subsidise non-self-government schools, e.g. make the payment of part of the grant conditional on a passing exam or an examination confirming qualifications in the profession. The wrong solution is to put in place a controversial solution to set maximum wages for employees and for the management of non-public kindergartens. This is an argument quite absurd that high salaries [[♪ The bell ♪]] In these facilities, it's an immoral phenomenon. If the owner wants to pay well, let him pay. I don't treat our amendment... [[Voice from the hall: From public money.]] It's not a matter of public money. We do not treat our amendment ultimatically, but we hope for wisdom, understanding and that this amendment will be taken into account, therefore... We are in favour of the proposed law at all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u93	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! I have, to be honest, a big problem, the modern club in general has a big problem with this bill, because when you start reading it, you come to the conclusion that it's a pretty good project to finance education. Indeed, we are dealing with a number of rules on ordering, we have provisions on sealing public spending, for example. on matters relating to adult schools. There are a lot of issues that needed to be sorted out and that have been sorted out in this bill. The whole problem, however, is that this law, which was intended to finance education, was added to the whole second element, the point concerning changes to the Teacher's Charter. And here is a very serious question: Why are you so afraid to talk to teachers? Why are you so afraid to consult and change the Teacher's Card with an open hatch? The Teacher Card is an archaic document, it is a document that needs to be changed, but tossing The Teacher's Charter and changes to the Education Finance Act were also criticised by the Office of Sejm Analysis. In fact, everyone realizes that this is a solution that shouldn't have happened. In addition, these regulations, which concern teachers, interfere quite strongly with the Teacher's Charter - changing the way teachers are promoted, extending this period. If this is not discussed with teachers, even if it would make sense, even if it could be considered that such a solution could be worked out together with trade unions, then we are simply dealing with fraud, because teachers in this way, in reality, are being reduced by wages. If there is a longer period of internship ahead of each degree of professional promotion, then there is a situation that someone earns less for a year than he could earn so far. Similar issues are related to the principle of paying from the bottom, not in advance. Indeed, it was such a thing that teachers were paid in advance, not downstairs. This should change, but again - it should take place after a broad debate with trade unions, in a developed way, perhaps after two years rather than a year. In contrast, the state saves more money at the expense of teachers, because they will have to lay out other funds, I do not know, for early payment of the loan payment before they get paid. They're the ones that's gonna get hit by the fact that their paycheck is gonna be moving by a couple of days every month. Another point is to change the principles of the teacher's assessment, to introduce this mandatory plus a regulation that is attached to a law that makes it quite clear that the morality and ethics of teachers will be assessed. Looking at the direction in which the Law and Justice are going right now, I'm beginning to wonder if there's going to be a need for an opinion from the parish priest. Are we going to have a situation where all the teacher's social activity will be exterminated? Will women who leave in their spare time, I don't know, protest as part of a black protest, be censored and therefore get a lower grade as teachers? A number of elements are to depend on this assessment. It is to depend on the possibility of promotion, i.e. whether the person who is being judged will be able to be promoted in 2 or 3 years, but in the case of qualified teachers also pay out the money that they have promised somewhere in the future, i.e. the famous 500+. Such solutions introduced in the Education Finance Act are nothing more than cheating on the teacher's environment. It's putting something behind their backs, quietly, through the back door. It's doing something you can't afford to stand up and talk to your teachers. If we want to change the Teacher's Charter, I would be happy to join, I would be happy to take part in extensive discussions on the Teacher's Charter. That's where the changes are needed. That's a document. from 1982, this is a document that has long lost its validity. However, you must not cheat, you must not hide under the cloak of changes in the funding of education. I know that the Minister explains that, of course, changes to the Teacher's Charter will have specific financial consequences, but it can be said that everything that is done in public space, literally everything that is done in public space, has some financial impact. In this case, however, we have an example of typical fraud and hiding something from the environment. This was done in such a way that trade unions themselves admit that they have practically not consulted these changes. And in addition, it's a regulation, an assessment of morality and ethics. Underneath it you can fit anything. Under this pretext you can punish every teacher, you can find in his personal life, you can find in his social attitude something that will cause a negative assessment. There shouldn't be such harsh criteria, there shouldn't be criteria that make the teacher afraid of how he's going to be evaluated by the director. Moreover, many directors do not want to judge teachers because of their moral and ethical attitude. Ladies and gentlemen, as a modern club, we are in favour of rejecting this project at second reading. We are absolutely not going to support him, because we believe that this is cheating the teachers' environment - hiding from them, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The teacher's card is changing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u95	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jan Łopata, the PSL Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u96	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present our opinion, our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law on the financing of educational tasks. High Izbo! The scope of the work and the results of the joint meeting of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy were presented by the rapporteur. Of course, the position on the proposed amendments, my club, the club of the Polish People's Party, will take the vote. I, using this opportunity, wanted to draw attention to certain areas of dispute which, as a result of the discussion at the committee meeting, were clearly outlined, but also to those areas which were not discussed at all, because, colloquially speaking, they fell out of the presentation of a government law on the financing of educational tasks - I am, of course, thinking about the method of calculating educational subsidies. I am aware that this is a very difficult subject, difficult and sensitive, or perhaps better to say, touchy, because it is connected with money, with funding, but the way in which this subsidy is calculated is very complicated, and I think it must also be said that in many cases it is simply unfair, that this issue will be modified in the near future, taking into account, for example, the size of branches resulting from the location of educational establishments. By the way, how grotesque, and I have also heard such an opinion, are appeals, calling for the idea of an educational gift. This idea seems to be completely detached from reality, but it is still alive in some environments. High Seym... [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: Not in government submissions.]] Yes, not in the submissions, but in the Seym debate, the Minister, it was. High Seym! A clear issue, and not only at the level of the government - opposition or coalition - opposition - is, more generally, the issue of the purpose and effectiveness of the inclusion in this law of a number of provisions relating directly to changes to the Teacher's Charter. The Sejm Analysis Office in the opinion wrote directly - here the quote - that it is not justified to make a fundamental amendment of the Teacher Charter Act in connection with the Law on the financing of educational tasks in the field not relating to the subject matter of the proposed law. However, it seems to us that fundamental changes, as it is written, are not going to happen in this bill, also in the area of the Teacher's Charter. On the other hand, it is impossible not to share the views of representatives of local governments present at the meeting, who, like many other communities, first of all expect to see in-depth changes to the Teacher's Charter, and second of all, considering that the proposed changes involve the financing of educational tasks, they accept them. High Seym! We cooperate as a club, as the Polish People's Party with many local communities and in this matter we agree with the opinion of the representative of Polish cities, because this opinion, which I quoted, is just a representative of Polish cities. High Izbo! I would also like to join the vote of opposition in the discussion on reducing the amount of 1-percent subsidies or this 1-percent participation in the professional training of teachers. In total, it is a significant amount, because it was calculated as PLN 55 million, reducing subsidies for local governments. The allegations presented in the discussion that, from this 1% reserve, local governments are building roads and other investments, are really not serious. High Izbo! In the regulatory impact assessment presented by the Act, we can add to the significant savings resulting from the regulations introduced. Thus, because of the change in the rules for granting leave for health compensation only in 2018, this is the estimated amount of PLN 68 million and PLN 137 million in subsequent years. Additional planned savings are due to changes in the financing of adult schools. These amounts are in the order of 183 million in 2018, 189 million in 2019 and as much as 202 million in 2020. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This fact should be borne in mind, these amounts and the government declarations of the use of these saved money to increase the financial resources primarily addressed to small primary schools. One of the problems these schools face should be devoted to the entire next presentation. As you've heard, I don't have time for this. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u97	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u98	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the Joint Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law on the financing of educational tasks. The draft law aims to create a coherent and transparent set of legislation on the scope of funding educational tasks. The project submitted concerns inter alia. pre-school grants, textbook grants, grants from the budgets of local government units, educational grants, financing of social benefits, as well as teachers' working time, promotion and evaluation of work, parental rights and leave. It is important to stress the importance of changes in the financing of social benefits which depend on the contribution of the municipality in this respect, depending on its financial condition. Municipalities that achieve a low income ratio will have to add 5% , and municipalities with an average income ratio of 10% instead of the current 20%. The reduction of the aid from the municipalities' own resources will increase access to this form of support. This is therefore a positive change. I consider it appropriate to update the provisions contained in the Teacher's Charter, which will be responsible for demographic and economic changes following the revision. The Act provides for an extension of the basic path of career promotion from 10 to 15 years, with the possibility of shortening it in case of outstanding job assessments. In addition, project designers want to harmonise the weekly time requirement, so-called. pence, teachers, educators, psychologists, speech counselors, pedagogical therapists and professional advisors up to 22 hours a week and teachers with special education qualifications, additionally employed to co-organise integration education and co-organize education for disabled pupils - up to 20 hours a week. The proposed law also introduces changes in the scope of leave for health punishment. An emergency subcommittee was set up to work on the clarification of the rules, involving the social side, and a number of amendments were tabled during the debate. October 10th this year The joint committees adopted the subcommittee report together with the amendments. The debate on the draft at the committee meeting took a very long time and some of the amendments were finally adopted. I am aware that not all the changes made are perfect, and I am convinced that they will not all respond. However, I know for a fact that we cannot continue to build on old, bad solutions that do not correspond to today's reality. The amendment of the bill meets social expectations. We have had a great deal of situations where the current rules raised interpretational doubts and caused many problems and ambiguities. I believe that the new provisions clearly regulate the scope of the law. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u99	Thank you very much, Member. Does anyone else want to join the list of Members asking questions? If not, I'm closing the list. Ms Krystyna Szumilas, Civic Platform, asks the first question. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u100	How about a minute and a half, Marshal? Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question: Why does the Government of Law and Justice despise young people so much and make their lives so difficult? You don't talk to residents, you don't give 500+ to the first child, and today you hit interns, extending their internship to 2 years and not making up for it financially. You save on teachers, because annually you will save PLN 200 million for extending your professional promotion, and these are savings that you do not spend on other expenses. You're prolonging your internship without giving them a raise. The Civic Platform, together with PSL, increased the remuneration of trainees by 72%, and you managed to raise their salaries in 2 years - attention - by 35 PLN gross. [[Applause]] But this young man is going to start a family, but this young man is going to start a family. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Get ready for an adult life and start It's a grown-up life. And one more question about this moral evaluation. Minister, what kind of moral evaluation will teachers get dressed in black on the day of women's protest? What grade will the teacher receive, who posted the link to the President's ear? What grade will the teacher receive when he invites the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help to school? And what grade will the teacher receive, who will go to Warsaw with President Kaczyński, how did your Małopolska curator do it?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u101	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u102	You discriminate against teachers and want to judge them by your own measure. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u103	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Kinga Gajewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u104	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It seems that the most scandalous thing in this law is the introduction of moral and ethical evaluation of teachers. It's gonna be a financial punishment for teachers who are according to the ruling party insubordinate. If the teacher makes the link available to the President's ear... [[Oh, come on.]] ...if the teacher dresses up in black... [[Don't repeat yourself.]] ...if the teacher goes on the black march, if he doesn't go ten for the Smolensk month, he may be punished. [[It's already been done.]] The Civic Platform presented the project of the local government programme, the project of the educational programme and I encourage you to get to know it. Financial issues are also addressed there. We deal with really important things like [[♪ The bell ♪]] financial strengthening of local governments, primarily the transfer of more competences to local governments, not to curators, the construction of cemeteries, i.e. what is needed of Polish education. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u105	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u106	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The government bill on funding educational tasks is another bad project. Municipalities and cities should receive an educational subsidy that is sufficient to cover all the costs associated with the proper functioning of schools, and should not be as it is at present, that they pay huge money to education. [[It's already been done.]] Tell me: such an important bill, and how much time do you spend in it to finance the actual costs of local government units? What's it like? Local government units bear the costs of their own budgets, and the probation officer rules? You think that's okay? How do you treat local governments? The local government will pay interest if it does not provide a grant within the time limit and the government which does not provide an education subsidy for the actual costs of school maintenance, [[♪ The bell ♪]] There are no consequences. Explain that to me. Minister! You're not responding to the article when you're proceding this bill. 78. Why do we not also regulate the state's attitude toward other religions than the Catholic Church? What about schools run by Evangelical and Orthodox religions? Please include other creeds. It's unconstitutional. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u107	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Anna Cicholska, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u108	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft law on the financing of educational tasks refers to very important components of the education system. For many years, local authorities and various educational bodies have been waiting for such solutions. It's about time we sealed and organized the education grant billing system. Minister! Does a scholarship grant give poorer local governments and children from small towns a chance to learn and raise under better conditions? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And have there ever been any local governments that have returned these subsidies to the state budget? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u109	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to point out that our debate is being listened to by students of primary and secondary schools from the municipality of Dąbrowa Tarnowska. Welcome to the Seym. [[Applause]] I now invite Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u110	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Minister of the Sejm has repeatedly talked about the fact that local governments have financial resources to finance educational tasks, that these funds should be in the income of their own local self-government units. That's what you said. But do you... [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: It is registered in the Act.]] Minister, but do you have this knowledge that every local government to maintain education outside the education subsidy increases from 30 to up to 150% An educational grant? Each of the local governments. Minister, it is sufficient that you, as a state alone, take over the obligations relating to the remuneration of teachers in the framework of an educational subsidy, and you would see the actual costs incurred by local authorities. Much higher than you provide. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the education grant. And my question is, does the Minister have any knowledge of the costs in the country actually borne by local self-government units to maintain education outside education subsidies? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u111	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u112	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Discussion of the draft law must not ignore the current financial situation of municipalities arising from the implementation of the reform. I wanted to base my speech on specific numbers. I participated in the session of the City Council and the Mirsk Community on this subject, on which all Members were invited. This self-government did not receive any financial resources for the implementation of the reform, for checks for 11 exempted teachers, for the preparation of rooms for seventh grade pupils. It was the Lower Silesian curator who decided on a network of schools in Mirsk, and is currently avoiding any assistance in adapting these rooms to the teaching process, in preparing these facilities. Is that okay? I have a question for the Minister: When will the Minister deliver on her promises to support municipalities, especially those with low incomes, in implementing the reform? [[♪ The bell ♪]] On behalf of the entire government, I appeal for political divisions and ask the Minister to support this community. [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: What is the county?]] In his own name, too. It is the town and municipality of Mirsk. [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: County?]] Lviv County of Silesia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u113	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Zbigniew Chmielowiec, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u114	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The system of funding educational tasks has for some time required significant adjustments, changes or introductions of solutions other than those currently in force. Expectations regarding the verification of the current system of funding educational tasks in different environments are divergent. Teachers, trade unionists, self-government officials sometimes stand on completely exclusive positions. I therefore ask the Minister and the rapporteur: Is the draft law on the financing of educational tasks, Parliamentary Printing No 1837, a compromise between educational actors? And second question: Has the Joint Committee of the Government and the Territorial Government expressed its position and what was it? Since I still have a moment, I wanted to address the Members of the Civic Platform and the Modern Member. I have functioned, functioned in the local government since 1994. [[We're early.]] Darlings, it has never been so that local governments do not complain about the lack of funding for education. It's not, Mr... [[I'm talking about right now.]] But you didn't say that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u115	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u116	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask the question: What is the greater freedom of schools to have a textbook grant according to the new law? And the second question, which goes slightly beyond the text of the law, namely: How will a grant be implemented for the educational costs of six-year-olds at school and in kindergarten? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u117	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Elizabeth Gapińska, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u118	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! If the Minister had decided that the Education Finance Act would actually be limited to funding, everything would be fine. But the minister is trying to moralize and educate teachers who are already really well-educated and their morality is at a high level, unlike the behaviour of some of your subjects, I am talking about education curatoria here. I want to tell you, Minister, because maybe you don't know, and as you know, I'm asking you for an answer today, and that's the delegation of the education parolees that didn't invite the Members of the opposition to the educational day. This was the situation with me in Płock. The director of the delegation did not wish to invite you, i.e. you are seizing Members on better and worse, for a better and worse sort. It only spoke to Mrs Cicholska, who was invited, and the others were not invited. If this is to be the case, reform and then evaluation [[♪ The bell ♪]] teachers, as you already judge and separate us, this really is an unstoppable project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u120	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! In connection with the provision of non-financing for pre-school domestic education, I have a question: Why is it so if the Ministry itself accepts both the calculation of its costs and the calculation itself? This shows that the right is given to those who want pre-school education to be co-financed. Why doesn't the Ministry want this? After all, it accepted all the indicators for the valuation of the cost of domestic education, those relating to labour costs, provided by schools, the cost of paying directories, teachers determined in accordance with the regulation of the Minister of National Education. Ladies and gentlemen, while I'm listening to this party war, I'm going to say one party of the other is worth it. But the alternative to this is Kukiz.15. Thank you. [[Of course. Best commercial ever.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u121	I invite Mrs Ursula Augustyn, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u122	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm gonna worry you a little bit, sir. We really can say it, we said it from that podium, and I'm gonna say it again. If the solution is good, it's well introduced, that's what we're talking about. And today, the Member who represented the Law and Justice Club spoke about these good solutions. We don't deny it. You have to seal the subsidies, and it's okay here, but you can't cheat. It hurts us, and we absolutely can't agree to that. [[Applause]] You can't cheat and you can't share people. You have the world championship in this division. My previous speakers have already talked about how you do it. Minister, I would like to take this opportunity to ask you to withdraw from the record that this regular mandatory assessment of the teacher's work will be an assessment of ethical and moral attitudes every 3 years. Really, this record is pointless. I don't want you to have an instrument that you're going to use as you have been with the probation officers so far. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because they're doing it. They invite only the people of PiS to the meetings, refusing to speak to those who think differently. If you apply this mechanism to teachers, you'll have segregation. It's indecent and it's not worth doing. There is still time, Minister, to withdraw from this provision or to support our amendment, because we make such an amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u123	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Andrzej Kryj, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u124	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! In August 2014, on the Internet portal of one of the nationwide newspapers, whose name I will not mention, and which is an oracle for the State from the Civic Platform, there was an account of the conversation which the then Minister of National Education Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska held in one of the radio stations. This report was titled as follows: I will gladly terminate the Teacher's Card if the PO wins the election and the Prime Minister wants to continue working with me. There were such statements: I have no doubt that the Teacher's Card should be thrown out. It's one of the first papers of martial law. Today we have quite a deep than demographic. This should provoke the management of the teaching staff to make them the best at school. I'm sure the card doesn't help that. We read: The best stays, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I want the rest thrown out. Minister, I have a question: Is the Minister planning any action that will be aimed at eliminating the Teacher's Charter? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Read the bill, sir. He's pulling out.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u125	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u126	I regret that the previous speaker received a round of applause because it was wrong, unjustified. I would like to say this: we are talking about an important new project and damage, Minister, unfortunately, for this project is that you have not consulted the trade unions on the tasks and responsibilities of teachers, and you have only talked about subsidies, how it will be allocated. What I'm trying to say is that it's a very bad element to extend your career promotion. Through this country, you stop the most capable and extend their ability to reach the final stage of their career. Change of payout date. What are you gonna do with the money you've saved for a month? Because I'm sure paying from downstairs saves you 1/12 of the subsidies. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Eventually, I have a hot appeal. I think that such unclear ethical-moral evaluation criteria, which upset the whole environment, should be an indication for you to withdraw from this solution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u127	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u128	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I have a question about the formula of these provisions. It's a law that talks about funding education in the title. Now my question is whether it's fair to bring a case when you also change the provisions on the Teacher's Charter in the law that refers to funding. I understand that these laws need to evolve and that talking about them is rational, but is it fair when in the law on a completely different subject, that is, financing, you introduce solutions, I would say, organizational solutions, such as lengthening traineeships, vacations, etc.? Is this the way it should be, or should it be a separate bill? And second question: Who will establish moral principles according to which [[♪ The bell ♪]] will the teachers be judged? And can it be that, for example. Members or councillors of the PiS who are in family trouble, so to speak, will they establish these moral principles? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u129	Thank you very much. The last question is asked by Dariusz Piontkowski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u130	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have this dissonance about morality. I have the impression that from the point of view of the state of total opposition, only going on black marches or listening or watching the President's ear is an element that allows to judge morally the teacher or anyone else. A very serious mistake. [[Applause]] Here's another piece. It seems to me that the Minister spoke several times about the consultation of trade unions and local authorities, also at the committee meeting, but I would ask once again whether such consultations actually took place. Or not. I would like to reassure you that I, too, do not speak at the ceremonies organized by the curatorium. [[I wasn't invited, sir, and that's the difference. Members were not invited.]] Perhaps it will calm you a little bit that not only Members of the Platform have a chance to speak there. Perhaps that also indicates pluralism. [[But you were invited? Because we don't.]] And the last piece. Listening to what the trade unions and teachers say, we will be proposing, as a parliamentary club, a change to remove from the law the provisions on changing the way teachers are paid together with other changes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm handing over these changes to your marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u131	Thank you very much, sir. I invite the Minister of National Education, Ms Anna Zalewska, to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u132	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Thank you so much for the questions, for this discussion. I want to apologize to young people for the emotions that sometimes flow from parliamentary benches, especially total opposition, for using the words: segregation, contempt, division. [[But really apologize for yourself, not for someone.]] [[Divide and segregate.]] Let me just give you one comment like that, and it'll be the only comment that everyone thinks according to each other. We're not talking about intentions, we're not talking about ideas, we've written everything down honestly. [[Subjective assessment.]] The society you are asking for has access to all these documents, records, comments, especially teachers who do not allow themselves to be manipulated and will not allow... [[You were supposed to answer the questions.]] ...to those emotions that are in the statements of the total opposition, especially this opposition, I am talking about the Civic and Modern Platform, which was in favour of eliminating the Teacher's Charter. The United Right is a formation that has always talked about the fact that the Teacher's Charter is to remain that the profession of teacher is a particular profession, which deserves respect, dignity... [[And a moral evaluation.]] ...which we rebuild after many years of neglecting this profession... [[That's not what you're saying. That's not what you're doing.]] ...that it is a profession where there is service, a mission where there must also be money, where there must be responsibility for the right working conditions. [[But there's no money.]] [[And a moral evaluation.]] And at the same time, ladies and gentlemen, when we discuss how we consulted this law, I will remind you, first of all, that this is a law, which is the result of the many months of work of the team set up in November ub. r., i.e. this is the year in which local government officials, experts from the Ministry of Education, worked together on equal and partner principles... [[That's not what the union officially said at the committee meeting.]] Any trade unionist, little of it, anyone who wanted to participate, could be with us in the building of the Social Dialogue Council. These were very systematic meetings. There are protocols, there are presentations that have been sent out. [[Please read the minutes of the session of the Parliament's Education Committee.]] We summarized every stage of this discussion in order to meet halfway, because very often, as the PSL representative rightly said, the demands of trade unions and the demands of local governments are just extremely different. Therefore, the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, which is to ensure the peace and safety of children, but also to guarantee teachers and improve teachers, is that they meet halfway. Therefore, extremely different requests for work rates were made. For some it was too fast, too slow for others, so we decided that we would end a certain stage of the conversation. Only the first stage is completed. The first effects of our talks can already be transferred to the bill, because there are dozens of very good solutions that teachers are waiting for, directors are waiting for, local government officials are waiting for. These things haven't been dealt with in the last few, several years. Of course, there is a discussion about the fact that there is no broader issue of education subsidies. We agree. PSL actually repeats what we are talking about from the very beginning, that education subsidy, even though it is very large, because it is already together with money for raises for teachers over 43 billion - I remind you of 2 million children who have disappeared from the system - is unfair, is archaic, some weights have names, completely do not agree to the present reality. The Ministry of Education and the United Right were ready to talk. These solutions are prepared. Experts from the Ministry of Education together with trade unions worked very long and tediously on these solutions. We were ready, while the local authorities asked for this discussion to be moved after the reform and adoption of this law to the next stage of a very serious discussion of over 43 billion, to include. implement what we talked about during the election campaign in the electoral programme. This is about investing small schools. All we have right now is dentures. We're going to increase by another hundred percent, percentage points of weight, so that small schools can continue to function, because there's 30% of them in the system. If we were to allow what was going on in previous governments, which is to systematically close small schools, we would actually lose civilization. [[That's not true, Minister.]] 30% schools were ready together with local authorities, i.e. The schools weren't ready, but the locals were ready for this... [[That's a speech.]] ...to carry out the liquidation process. That's why we standardize it with local government. We are already showing what number of children, students would be the one that would guarantee financial stability, and at the same time we are talking about this, and this has been proposed to count not only on students but also on the branch. This is the whole project. We will, I think, from mid-November, at the latest after the 20th, continue to discuss this in the team. [[But that's not the bill.]] These are too important issues to be resolved in emotions. I accept the full declaration of each club regarding cooperation in designing these changes. It's not true, folks, that someone's hiding something. Here again, the question of self-esteem arises. At the meeting of the team, we discussed all the issues that appeared in the provisions of the Act. At the same time, it is not true that what falls from the Seym's pulpit is that the wording or decisions recorded in the Teacher's Charter have nothing to do with the funding of education. [[You save money on teachers.]] Well, they do, ladies and gentlemen, and it's actually a very unbelievable sentence. We show that the various provisions on the Teacher Charter are related to funding, above all to the financing of teachers. It is not true, sir, that we are taking privileges. Absolutely not. They've all been maintained. We're talking about additions we're not taking, but we're going to add them to the pay basis. Therefore, the bill will self-correct the government, which will increase by this amount and by this percentage the base amount, which will be the basis for calculating all the financial consequences for teachers as well as the increase. It is not true, ladies and gentlemen, it is impossible that it is 500+ for every teacher, although we have such plans. [[We have tabled such an amendment. All you have to do is back her up.]] We want economic growth to actually increase so that we can keep thinking about the teacher, about financing him properly. But 500+, which was hailed on the occasion of the law, although I mentioned this at the press conference on 30 April, is a response to two reports by the Supreme Auditorium and research by the Institute of Educational Research, which showed that it was worth inventing either an additional degree of professional promotion of a teacher, or motivation for a teacher who after 10 years gets a degree of diplomad teacher. [[Yeah, not for everyone.]] That's what we did. We have simply complied with the results of many years of research which regulates these issues, and we have shown that a particularly distinguished, well-working teacher will receive after evaluation, because this must be how it works in every system, an additional 500 PLN per month. Of course, the intention of the Ministry of Education is this - this is shown in the OSR, we had to count it for 10 years - so that each teacher could receive this amount, because that means that it is the highest quality work. [[But not everyone will.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for two sentences about absurdly raised by quoting one newspaper - it is worth reading many journals, many newspapers - issues that say that someone will judge someone on the basis of their morality. That's, first of all, not true. Secondly, this is a draft regulation. [[You've written into the draft regulation. You wrote it down.]] We encourage trade unionists, journalists, all Members who are working on a draft regulation... Even one Member - I think Gajewska - said that this is a law. Absolutely not. It was a lie. So this is a draft regulation, which will be subject to consultation just like any draft regulation. The records were moved there, among others. from the already in force Teacher's Charter. In fact, I would like to appeal to the Members of the Republic of Poland not to tell citizens that ethics does not have a journalist, that ethics does not have a doctor, that ethical behaviour is not included in every profession. Not that, ladies and gentlemen, there's ethics in the education system. [[But in your country, there's a party, not an ethical one. Partisan, and that's the difference.]] [[Your party ethics.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we sit together in this draft regulation, because I very much care that these are criteria that will be very precise in order to absolutely avoid any discretion, because it will appreciate the highest quality of work. You are talking about this by raising the question of extending time to professional promotion, but you are acting unfairly because you do not indicate that you will be able to reduce this traineeship to 9 years in the case of the best. We all care about the quality of education. You're asking for interns, just like we are. For the first time, when it comes to grading and salaries, the general category of teachers earning less than 2 000 in the regulations disappears. zł. That's what we did, not even discussing it. As far as trainees are concerned, we will systematically seek to respect the work of a young teacher. Please do not speak with ridicule about increases, because these increases are written in the bill, and the money that was mentioned here with contempt that it is only a few dozen zlotys, is a valorization which, please, has not been in place since 2012. [[But two years - you could have raised them.]] Not much, in 2012, when there was the last tranche so-called. raises in the education system, the predecessors decided that local governments were to find this money in education subsidies. That's what happened. We're talking about extra money. It's about over a billion zlotys in education subsidies. We, respecting the local government... And here is the answer for the Member. Of course, we will be able to discuss a particular village, we will provide you with very detailed information, but I can tell you what was also in force in this municipality. The Member here asked about the addition. We'll figure out what it's all about, too. So, first of all, as far as the 2017 subsidy is concerned, each municipality, including the municipality where you were, received additional money for the first time in history. And that's not gonna change. There will be no minister of education who dares to say that a six-year-old who is studying at school is not covered by education subsidies. [[But lower.]] We are now, ladies and gentlemen, the leader of the so-called. training in Europe. [[Thanks to local governments, not thanks to you.]] That's why they got... [[They say not at all.]] I don't know how much we need to access the system to answer, give you very precise information. They received an education grant for a six-year-old who's in kindergarten. If it is a municipality, then for the next two years it will not have nine years covered by the education subsidy, but 10, in order to cope with all expenditure to which it is legally obliged. Besides, every... [[They've had it before because there were six-year-olds in school.]] It is on the scale of Poland, ladies and gentlemen, it is 1.5 billion PLN. At the same time, the governor of the municipality received additional money for the valorization of teachers' salaries. [[It's so manipulative.]] If the uncle did not address the Ministry of Education, it is a pity, because every government that asked him to be paid a refund for the transformation, i.e. the adaptation of the toilets, the purchase of furniture, the conversion of the skylights, received this money. [[Part of it.]] 80% on average. [[10%.]] You've seen one show, too. We asked for a correction - unfortunately this correction was not included - because it was manipulation. I'm going to show you how to do such manipulation, on the example of Warsaw. In the case of Warsaw during the holidays it was said that 70 million PLN was spent on conversions. Of course, it is very simple to check this out, ladies and gentlemen, just to open a website on which the city's budget is included, in which the budget is saved for investments. It turns out that 90% These investments are absolutely not the result of the transformation. We have been asked for more than 4.5 million refunds in terms of money spent on transformations. Warsaw received about 4 million. [[Three hits.]] Therefore, this really is over 80%. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, Warsaw received more than 45, 46 million per six-year-old and from 14 to 17 - I am sorry, because these are big cities, sometimes I can be mistaken here - for the valorization of teachers' salaries, which this year gave 70 million PLN. [[But the small towns didn't get into elementary school.]] At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, when we are talking, and here I would very much like to ask Members of the Modern House because they asked questions... I think we can discuss here a little longer, probably not today. But as far as education subsidies are concerned, yes, she's not just on wages. There's a lot of scales and algorithms. She's what's guaranteed in the laws. We have a ruling by the Constitutional Tribunal on the fact that local governments are burdened with increases by the predecessors, that the subsidy is not to meet all educational needs, because, Mr President, there is also the Local Government Act, the Public Finance Act, which perfectly shows who participates in this and participates in the maintenance of schools. We're here looking for approval from local government. [[Minister, the subsidy does not cover the cost of remuneration.]] I am sure that you, too, are in local governments and hear, for example, that certain amounts are being added. When it comes to the question of whether these amounts result from own tasks, i.e. From running a nursery and kindergarten, it turns out yes. And it's treated like what's in the education grant system. But, ladies and gentlemen, seeing what has happened in recent years, e.g. That after 17 years of middle school building we have 25% Natural offices, that after a big share of the digital school - read the reports of the European Commission - less than 20% of schools have broadband Internet etc., we want to support local authorities in the area of equipment, although it is the task of the municipality. Therefore, please, in a moment - I have already seen Minister Zagórski - there will be another reading of the bill on the National Education Network, where it is foreseen that within 2 years in each educational institution there will be a broadband Internet, little of that, there will be a basic distribution of the Internet in every educational institution and what we are very proud of, 10 years of the Internet in school for free. At the same time, so that the halls are not empty, we realize, and it is of great interest, the government program, the Active array. The idea is that in each class, when there will be broadband Internet, there will be a multimedia board or equipment that will ensure constant contact online with the world, so that lessons are interesting, interesting. We are looking forward to how Copernicus Science Centre, because we co-financed the centre, will present the project: Laboratory, in order to be able to transform it into a government project entitled: The laboratory has already been announced by me and by the Prime Minister at the beginning of the school year. And also, ladies and gentlemen, by showing your comments, which were false, which really contradict all these laws a little bit, I would like to remind the teachers that there is an art. 135, who says that anyone who acquires rights has those rights guaranteed. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, when we are talking about how we have still passed the public consultation, it is again simply misleading the public, because if you are so kind and see the draft law on the pages of the Sejm, they will see that there are 50 pages with the results of the public consultation. We have responded to many comments, we have accepted many comments in the bill. And there are literally two or three issues that you have raised. This invitation to Members. Maybe it's a habit, because that's what happened, and I'll check it out. Every Member and every unit associated with the Ministry of Education knows for sure that these are invitations addressed to all Members, and that is the general principle. [[No, it's not.]] I'll explain it, but, as I say, maybe it's a habit, because that's actually the standard maintained in previous years... [[Please check Małopolska immediately.]] ...what most Members have probably experienced. We took it calmly. In a relationship, too... [[No, it's not. It's never been like this.]] ...with this I ask you to seriously, without emotions, without epithets, talk about the Polish school, because she just deserves it. School should be good. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u133	Thank you very much, Minister. Ms Krystyna Szumilas submitted a corrigendum. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u134	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The public is entitled to the truth, not to manipulated statements. I was talking about trainee teachers, who are getting longer internships and who aren't getting any pay increases, that's an extension of internship. Minister! Minister, Minister... Intern's basic salary is 2,000. PLN exceeded in 2010. We increased the intern's salary by 72%. In 2 years, you have only paid 35 PLN. And we're not talking about it with contempt, it's you guys... [[What's the percentage?]] ...you don't notice the needs of young people, you want to save money. From this speaker, the Minister should be telling the truth, not telling the public that you are now suddenly doing something. [[♪ The bell ♪]] good for young teachers. That's not true. [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: Marshal, I would like to...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u135	Thank you. You're welcome. And then I'll ask the committee rapporteur to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u136	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I did very briefly, because there was a misunderstanding here. I am talking about the table, about the basic salary table in force from 1 January 2017. And there are three, four titles, including: other education, where there is an amount of PLN 1533. And we're just taking out the embarrassing last part of the table. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u137	Thank you very much. I would ask the rapporteur of the committee of Mr Kazimierz Moskal to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u138	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to thank all those who have spoken in a more or less substantive way, as each vote is important. Because a dispute is also important, because a part of democracy is a dispute. And I will certainly apologize to my colleague, Mrs Ania April, for wrongly judging her by Mrs Augustine. The thing is, she didn't say there was a hot fight. Of course he was. I am the rapporteur, and I should say that there was a heated dispute between trade union representatives, representatives of local governments and the social side, because that was the case. But I think it's only natural that the Sejm, plenary sittings, committee meetings, this is a place of dispute, of exchange of thoughts, and that's why I don't think anything big happened, that I didn't say that there was a heated dispute. It's... [[Mr President, you did not understand what I said.]] ...so much in title... Yeah, but there was a point to a friend. On the other hand... [[Because she was just talking about good things.]] Of course you do, and you're only talking about the bad guys. And the problem is that you only pay attention to something bad, but you don't see anything... [[You're wrong.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u139	I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u140	...good. So that's what it looks like. On the other hand, there is probably one thing that is obvious. Many times here, in the speeches, questions or suggestions, there was even a word that there was no consultation here, that someone was excluded, and I think that also in the subcommittee, and in the committee, anyone who wanted to take the floor got the floor, and I don't think there was a person who could say that she didn't have the opportunity to speak. When we received this bill, it was definitely this article. 76 raised a dispute, each had his own point of view, saw this, and pointed out that Art. 76 of this bill shouldn't be here. But there was a conversation here on the one hand and on the other. Like the Prime Minister, the Minister has made it clear that this is the first significant step in ensuring that the Public Finance Act continues to be examined and that certain necessary changes, changes expected by different environments, appear. But it also takes time. Despite the enormous commitment of the team that the Minister spoke of, there is still much to be done. And I'm sure that's the way to go about it. It is a great responsibility for us, for all. I am convinced that we can afford, first of all, the student, because the student is the most important in all this, but also the teacher, and the local governmentman are pleased. But for that to be possible, a compromise is necessary. So far it has been so, because if we have received this draft law on the financing of tasks, it is clear in the explanatory memorandum that before the project appeared here, these consultations took place, the Social Dialogue Council, the social side had the possibility as much as possible, had the opportunity. I hope that, despite critical remarks or paying attention only to what is bad, we will all be able to carry out this bill and the next steps will also be implemented - for the good of the disciple. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u141	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies and the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law on the National Education Network (prints No 1851 and 1899). I ask Mrs Iwona Michalek to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u142	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the joint meeting: the Committee on Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies and the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law on the National Education Network, print No 1851. This project creates a legal framework for ensuring high-speed broadband Internet in all Polish schools. The implementation of this project will be an important element in the process of equalising educational opportunities in Poland, developing new forms of education and digital competences and skills, as well as allowing the widespread use of online educational resources. The project entered the Sejm on 20 September 2017 and at first reading it was dealt with by two joint committees which I represent. This happened on 11 October 2017. The Commissions, here I would like to point out, unanimously accepted the draft together with the amendments and on their behalf I bring to the High House the adoption of such a necessary law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u143	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Andrzej Kryj to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u144	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the draft law on the National Education Network, which forms the legal framework for ensuring access to broadband Internet with a capacity of at least 100 Mbps in all Polish schools for children and young people. The analysis of Internet access carried out jointly by the Ministry of National Education and the Ministry of Digitalization in cooperation with the Office of Electronic Communications in 2016 showed that only 23% of Polish schools have access to Internet networks with a capacity of at least 100 Mbps. At the same time, it turned out that more than 40% educational units use the Internet with a capacity not exceeding 10 Mbps. The conclusions of this analysis are not optimistic, because the state described above means that most educational units in Poland are digitally excluded, which in the case of schools results in a lack of possibility to use digital educational tools in the teaching process. The fact that students are deprived of such opportunities means that they cannot acquire and develop digital competences and skills, and this has very far-reaching consequences - it is an obstacle to building the intellectual potential of the Polish society and to creating and maintaining an effective advantage of the Polish economy. The changes that have taken place in the global economy in recent years have been described as the fourth industrial revolution, in other words, the digital revolution. In order for Poland to participate as an equal partner, and even as a leader, it is crucial to allow access to new technologies, because, as the old proverb says: What John has not learned, John will not be able to do. Therefore, today's draft law on the National Education Network is a necessary project that meets the expectations of many environments. The National Education Network will be a public telecommunications network through which the operator - the Scientific and Academic Computer Network - will provide basic and non-basic schools with broadband Internet access services, but also, which is extremely important, will provide widely understood network security to its users. Importantly, access to a basic service, i.e. one with a capacity of up to 100 Mbps, will be free for educational establishments and, as it is understood, for bodies running schools. The funding for the functioning of the OSE will come from the state budget, but it is worth noting that it is planned to reach for the funds from the Operational Programme of Poland digital. Many factors determine the success of each undertaking, but it must be made clear that money is always fundamental. The Act sets the maximum limit of the appropriations provided for in the State budget for the implementation of tasks related to the creation and maintenance of the National Education Network. Between 2018 and 2027 the total amount of PLN 1341 million will be allocated. Dear Marshal, High Seym! Therefore, we have a diagnosis and therapeutic measures have also been indicated. It is worth asking here what the effects of these changes will be. And they will be of all measure positive. I will not mention them all, because they can be found in the justification, but I will point out only one fundamental effect: equalizing the educational opportunities of Polish students both in large cities and in small centres, which are located in poorly urbanized areas. This is very important, very important. Ladies and gentlemen! The guidelines for the proposed solutions can be described as very good, and this is supported by the fact that similar solutions have been introduced in many countries around the world. It is enough to mention Germany, Japan, Denmark or Ireland. In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the proposed bill on the National Education Network. [[♪ The bell ♪]] However, we do see the need for minor changes, and I would therefore like to make four amendments to the bill to the hands of the Marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u145	Thank you very much, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Arkadius Carrot.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u146	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The Internet has become a natural space for our functioning, communication and science, and today the network is not only a part of our lives, but also a space in which we simply live, which is why access to broadband Internet is now something obvious and even natural. In this respect, we believe that the provision of broadband access is 20,000. Polish schools are needed and even necessary to meet the challenges of the present and provide the right conditions for learning using digital tools. It should be pointed out and recalled that the implementation of this programme would not have been possible to a large extent if EU funds of almost PLN 10 billion were not effectively negotiated in the previous term, thanks to which the Operational Programme was created. Today only 23% of schools are within reach of networks with a capacity of at least 100 Mbps. The project assumes that next year 1.5 thousand will be connected. schools, 2019 - 12,7 thousands. schools and only after 2020 will the target be reached: over 19.5 thousand. schools. Therefore, I would like to point out that the slogan: 100 mega on the 100th anniversary of independence is rather unreal slogan, because on the 100th anniversary of independence only 8% will be connected. schools. But it is a good thing that such actions are being carried out. I'm going to the point. The proposal provides for the establishment of a National Education Network, which is a public education network through which the operator will provide basic and non-basic broadband services to schools. The educational network is also intended to be a special service providing textbooks, science aids or materials for teachers. The project will create a special operator, the Academic Computer Network, which will coordinate the connection of facilities and manage the network on the so-called. It's the last mile. Generally, the establishment of the National Education Network is a valid and good proposition. However, when discussing this solution, some doubts should be taken into account. During the public consultation on this project, a number of comments related to the procedures for cooperation between the national network operator and telecommunications operators in obtaining access to telecommunications infrastructure. E.g. The National Chamber of Ethernet Communications indicated that NASK would have a genuine monopoly on the provision of access services to schools, which could have a serious negative impact on the competitiveness of the telecommunications market in Poland. In its first opinion, the Polish Chamber of Information Technology and Telecommunications indicated that the draft law does not provide an appropriate incentive for infrastructure owners to engage in market-based cooperation, and aims to create unilateral mechanisms that can force the chosen entity to surrender its own private resources. It is therefore important to appreciate, Minister, that when working on the next version of this law, the most reservations were removed from the draft, while others were further clarified in order to remove all ambiguities or interpretation freedom in terms of the rights and obligations of the OSE operator. I would like to highlight one more point. Today's data indicates that every fourth school has more than 10 years of equipment. The only government programme in this area is an Active Table, which allocates PLN 279 million to the purchase of interactive boards, but that means that it will be an average of 17 thousand. For the commune, so it's probably not enough to do it anywhere. So the fundamental question is whether the use of this high-speed internet will be well used. I would also like to add that during the public consultation, as well as during the joint meetings of the Commission: Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies and Education, Science and Youth, representatives of the industry organisation pointed to one issue. The Act will provide that the OSE operator uses existing telecommunications infrastructure in accordance with the principles of equal treatment, fair competition and open, transparent and non-discriminatory procedures for obtaining access to infrastructure. So it seems reasonable, Minister, to clarify these provisions so that there are no vague statements here, such as the principle of equal treatment, transparent procedure, etc., and to refer directly to the provisions of the telecoms law or the law [[♪ The bell ♪]] to support the development of telecommunications services and networks. I therefore have an appeal to the Minister. Perhaps this would be clarified at the next stage of the legislative process so as not to raise any doubts. In conclusion, I would like to say that the project is going the right way and responds to the challenges of today, giving students the opportunity to use digital educational resources, which is why the Civic Platform is in favour of this project. At the same time, I call on the Minister to refer to those points I have mentioned and to clarify these provisions at the next stage of the legislative process. Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u147	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Józef Brynkus.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz club15 in relation to the law introducing the National Education Network. The idea of setting up a network does not raise any objections. The need for full computerization of educational establishments is obvious, and because of the possibility of making full use of this civilization, access to broadband and high-speed internet is also necessary. The OSE will be a virtual public telecommunications network based on the physical broadband infrastructure already in existence, as well as the one that will be created as a result of commercial and co-financed investments, and the infrastructure built specifically for the purposes of the National Education Network by its school operator, which for various reasons will not be connected to high-speed commercial broadband networks. Responsible for the network, for its parameters and its operation, will be its supplier. This is where the problem arises with who is or will be the owner of this broadband network. This will require extraordinary discernment in who owns it, who owns it. This is demonstrated by the case of the Małopolska broadband networks. They were created in 2011. The funds for their creation were paid by the voivodship government of 2385 thousand. zł. Initially, they tried to find a private entity that would participate in the project on the basis of a public-private partnership. After more than a year's Marazma Małopolska was still without new fiber optics. Companies were not recapitalised, although it was planned to be done up to PLN 30 million. And they started selling. The company was sold for 2,600 thousand. zł. The taste is added by the fact that the total value of the project at the time of acquisition of Małopolska fibre networks by Hyperion was over PLN 192 million, including European funding is almost PLN 64 million. I do not really know what is the most important thing in the context of the National Education Network, or how a given entity becomes a broadband operator potentially able to deliver the Internet to the OSE, or its ownership, supervisory composition. The acquisition of Małopolska broadband networks was made by Hyperion, whose president was PO Tomasz Szczypiński, and the supervisory board included Marcin Rywin, son of the dubious fame of Lwa Rywin, and General Victor Fonfar, a communist security officer. However, in order not to question the OSE project itself, I would add that an interesting argument for the inclusion of schools in this network is the position of the Ministry of National Education in the calculation of educational subsidies, namely to give up the rate of counting subsidies according to the number of children. Such a calculation of subsidies in many cases leads to the liquidation of small schools, which is a civilizational collapse for small towns. In the MEN concept, small schools will become teaching centres in terms of adult competence. These schools will also have different roles when broadband Internet appears. They'll be in them, among others. organised censuses. Given the purpose of the investment, with reservations about the safety of its use, Kukiz15 will vote in favour of the draft law on the National Education Network. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u149	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Schmidt. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! All clubs have already spoken about this project and there is support in general, because it will actually help students and schools. We talked about finance, we talked about the advantages of implementing the Internet, it's about quick access, it's about parameters that will enable children, students finally using multimedia platforms, educational materials that require higher, better information flow parameters. In my speech, I would like to draw attention to another aspect that has not yet been addressed in the speeches of colleagues from Law and Justice, the Civic Platform or Kukiz15. Namely, using the fact that I worked in the e-learning industry, where my company worked with educational units, but also with commercial companies, we produced multimedia materials, prepared online trainings or supported interactive platforms that would support teachers in the education process, I would like to share such reflection that this project will not have positive results if there is no support for teachers in the form of training, development of competences related to the use of modern technologies in schools. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, I was able to observe the very potential of multimedia materials or interactive boards being wasted, often purchased from EU funds. These materials were not used because this was not supported by teachers' competence to use these new technologies. So that here I appeal to the Ministry not to underestimate this problem. Indeed, Polish schools must take a milestone in developing the competences of digital students, but only with the help of teachers. And I call for a national programme to encourage teachers to overcome concerns, barriers to the use of modern technologies, because online learning materials, multimedia materials are waiting for use. These are international platforms, but in Poland many such digital content has been prepared and especially in small towns, where it is difficult to access commercial educational offers, it would be worth supporting schools - in these smaller towns. I'm talking about e-learning, virtual classes, full use of multimedia boards. I would stress that the assumptions of the National Education Network are in line with the Modern Programme. In our program we already talked about in the campaign that our vision of the school is a digital school, learning coding or the basis for programming - these are the records that are included in the modern program. That is why we will certainly vote in favour of this law. Once again, a call to the Ministry for urgent parallel preparation of programmes supporting teachers' competences to ensure that online resources, multimedia resources are properly and efficiently used. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u151	Thank you, Member. Mr Paszyk made his speech on behalf of the club in writing. Let's get to the questions. Is any of the ladies and gentlemen of the House still willing to ask a question? If not, I am the first to ask Mrs Krystyna Shumilas for a question. One and a half minutes to the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u152	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Schools which now use computer equipment use the Internet, even the slower one, will certainly benefit from this project, while the schools that do not have the equipment will be left behind. In addition, in the project you wrote that it will be on the initiative of the local government and the school that the Internet will be connected to the educational institution, so where there will be no equipment, there will also be no interest in connecting the school to the Internet. This project only solves a small part of the problem. In order for today's school to be modern and actually benefit from the opportunities offered by access to the Internet through technological advances, it is necessary to equip schools with mobile computer studios, to provide schools with equipment at which they will be able to use this access. It's not enough to have access to fuel, you have to have a car to drive, and that's not in schools. The Active Table program is 14 thousand. for school, even with the contribution of the local government, so it is an overrated program, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Which I'm sure won't solve the problem. Why aren't you taking advantage of the digital school experience and continuing, you haven't secured the money to equip schools with equipment? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u153	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Paweł Arndt. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We worked quite quickly in the joint committees on this bill. I even suggested that the project be directed to the subcommittee and think a little bit more about it there. I think that this would not lead to an extension of the working time on this law, because I am aware that it is important to implement this regulation quickly, but today this makes a number of questions, doubts, amendments - perhaps this would be avoided. The draft budget contains the costs to be borne by the state budget, and I would like to ask what the impact of this project on local government units will be. I am somewhat referring to the statements or questions of Mrs Krystyna Szumilas, who is concerned that local governments will not be able to benefit fully from the benefits of this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u155	Thank you. Mrs Iwona Michalek. There is no Member. Mr Andrzej Kryj.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u156	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! It is estimated that nearly half of Polish schools have computers older than 8 years old. These schools also most often use software that is obsolete and for which manufacturers no longer offer technical support. My interlocutors, with whom I consulted the principles of this law -- the law, as we have repeatedly stressed -- the good, needed, meeting expectations -- expressed concern about whether the opportunities that will be created by providing broadband access will be fully exploited due to the delay in the technological computer base. I have a question as to whether the Ministry provides for such measures as to support schools, to support local authorities in the exchange of computer equipment which is on the equipment of these schools. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u157	Thank you. Mrs Cicholska put the question in writing. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u158	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Apart from the fact that schools today do not have the right equipment to use digital materials, another question arises. I would like to draw attention to the European Commission's position on building a gigabit society. You can find this statement: Innovative teaching and learning methods require gigabit access to the Internet, which would allow the use of the latest materials, teaching tools and techniques and the acquisition of digital skills by students. To make full use of the on-line educational services available, a 20-grade school would need a 700 Mbps connection today in each of the 25 students who would like to provide simultaneous Internet access for a large number of participants. So we're proposing 100 Mbps here, and the challenges are much bigger. Therefore, the question arises: Is this speed of 100Mbps optimal for the use of modern and up-to-date high quality digital materials in these schools? How does the Ministry of Digitalization imagine the development of the National Education Network in order to adapt it to the changing needs of the rapidly changing world and digital society? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u159	Thank you, sir. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Undoubtedly, broadband internet is an opportunity to equalise the opportunities of children in urbanized centres and in those places that are far from large centres. I would like to ask what percentage, to what extent school access will increase as a result of this law. What number of schools will be able to access broadband Internet as part of the implementation of this law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u161	Thank you. And Mr Mirosław Pampuch, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u162	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! There is no doubt that the National Education Network is an extremely necessary solution to increase the degree of digitization of Poland, while 23 thousand were built within the operational programmes in the 2007-2013 financial perspective. km of broadband network in Poland for almost PLN 3 billion. It was financed from regional operational programmes as well as from the Eastern Poland development programme. I would like to ask you a question about transparency... about the coherence of these solutions that have already been implemented, with this planning solution, which is the National Education Network. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u163	Thank you. Mrs Iwona Michalek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u164	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I wanted to ask you about the local community. How will the local community benefit from bringing broadband to schools? Except for the kids and the teachers, of course, because we know everything here. But what I'm talking about is whether people will be able to benefit from it, and on what basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u165	Thank you, Member. The list of Members of Parliament has been exhausted, and I would therefore ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Digital Affairs of Minister Marek Zagórski to speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna try some questions... First of all, I would like to thank you for supporting this project. I hope that at the next stages of its work, because not only at the legislative stage, we will still be able to develop this project together. I also hope, in answer to Mr Carrot's question, that in two or three years' time, when this project can be implemented in this form, we will be wondering how to speed up the speed of the Internet. And I'm gonna say this right now, we're gonna put it on the fiber optics, we're gonna put it on every school's fiber optics, so that, using this technology, we can use better devices to increase the speed of the Internet. Today, these 100Mbps seem optimal for most schools. Let us remember that in fact only 1.5 thousand. For 19,5,000. location has access to broadband Internet today, is within its reach, which does not always mean that it uses it. So we have to do this by answering Mrs Tomaszewska's question, about 90%, that is what we have ahead of us. So that's how much more broadband access with this kind of flow is gonna increase. This is, as I said, a very big task, most important. And I'm going to say this by answering all the other questions in general for now - you can't do all these other things without a base, without providing infrastructure. Of course, we can talk about the lack of equipment, the need to support teachers' competences, the need to build new resources. This is all insanely important, but if we don't have this basic infrastructure, it just won't be. It also acts as a driving mechanism. I always have this comparison to highways. Most of the Members in this Chamber also remember these discussions from many years ago about the construction of motorways - why do we need these motorways if no one rides them. Today we're talking about the need to build third lanes, the questions are why we don't build third lanes. So as long as we don't have infrastructure, we can't fully assess whether we're going to use it 100%. I am convinced that we will use it, we will use it very quickly, and in three years we will really talk about increasing the flow rate to the level of 1 giga that the European Commission is talking about. Besides, there are already such places in Poland, and we will not block them at all, because we will build this network so that it is possible, for example. In Lublin there is a urban concept that says that all schools in Lublin have 1 giga and we will organize it together with the city so that it will of course work this way, while at this stage the state will finance the Internet to this level. The remaining value or this better service, with higher parameters, will already have to be financed, so far, from local government money. Looking at how the market is developing and the market is developing in such a way that data transmission services are cheaper, we can say that in this budget that we have adopted, it is over 1600 million on a scale of 10 years for this project, we will also find money for this even faster Internet, if necessary. We will also use, I answer questions about OSEs that have emerged, the existing infrastructure and the OSE operator does not intend to build it. We're gonna build infrastructure. only if no other operator appears, no other entity wishing to build it. In this assumption, we will lease this infrastructure, we will lease it transparently, transparently, while maintaining all procedures. There is no point, first, to enter, to refer to telecommunications law, because it applies directly and the OSE operator will have to adapt to it. We will use, wherever possible, the infrastructure of the OSE, Exatela, all those to whom this will fit, in short, the concept. What will be built by the OSE operator, as I said, will build a physical network where it will not arise. It will do so at the last stage, after all the proceedings have been carried out, after establishing with the operators, both those who will implement these investments exclusively from their own resources and those who will implement it under the Operational Programme (the "Digital Poland"), with funding from these funds. Then we can figure out where else intervention is needed. It's a hardware question. First of all, I will return to the fact that the Digital School program was a noble program, but it had one fundamental flaw, it was just a swimming pool without water. That's the problem, just like we're talking about teachers' competence. It's hard to expect teachers to be specially... Besides, the Minister spoke about it, in fact, it is difficult to expect teachers to invest in themselves, in their competences, if they can't use them later in school, so that's why the infrastructure first and then the rest. [[In parallel, it has to be.]] Yeah, of course it's parallel, but I'm telling you, we're not going anywhere without it. As far as expenditure is concerned, in terms of investments in equipment, it is not, first, that only the Active Table, although remembering that this support according to the Ministry of Education will receive more than 5600 schools, is also important. Secondly, let us bear in mind that it is possible and available from regional operational programmes, schools, municipalities and local authorities to finance the purchase of equipment. In various voivodships it looks different, but it is already a decision of local governments of voivodships, how much they have allocated to this purpose. It's been for dozens of... The lowest amount is probably about 100 million, the highest reaches about 1 billion among others. for this purpose, the allocation of resources in regional operational programmes. There is money that we have launched at the moment, I am talking about the Ministry of Digitization, and more jointly with the Ministry of Development, within the framework of the Operational Programme of the Polish Digital Programme, within the third axis for training for residents of municipalities, which will be run by the municipalities. With this money 40% can be spent on purchasing equipment that stays in schools. It's in the case of such a grant, in the relations that the Minister said it was 14,000. For school... As far as these grants are concerned, it's 150,000. For the municipality, it's 40%. It could go to the equipment. When we combine all of this together, of course, it still will not solve the problem, because we have to look at it not in a one-year or two-year perspective, we have to look at it in a perspective of many years. As part of the OSE we envisage a solution, we are considering a technical solution that will allow the use of old hardware, a virtual desktop service that will allow the use of old computers, which today are actually more dangerous than teaching aid, because once they are plugged into the network, they no longer have the right support from software manufacturers... In fact, they should be turned off immediately. We're gonna test it. Such solutions are possible, we know, but they are quite expensive, but we will try to incorporate them as far as possible. We see absolutely the need for these activities to go in parallel, i.e. we provide free Internet in each school, we provide basic infrastructure in this school, as far as the internal network is concerned, we provide part of the funds for final equipment under government programmes and we expect that local governments, for which it is the same investment as in benches, I know that there is always a problem with this, but this is the same type of expenditure... We're hoping that once the Internet's here, they'll be doing it. As far as teachers are concerned, there's money again from POWER for teacher education. Probably not enough again, but they're available. I will go back to the same thing again if there is the possibility of using the Internet, then probably teachers will be more willing to train, because in the software base there is even a requirement to use ICT in teaching different subjects and we hope that it will. As for the question of Mr Brynus, who will own it, who will manage it. The owner of the OSE network will be its operator. The owner of all the building blocks purchased by the OSE operator will be the OSE operator, which is a public entity. NASK is a state research institute and I think there will be no such misfortunes here as have happened in the Małopolska RSS, there will be no, there can be no. That's all I can say about it. To Mrs Michalek's question about how local communities will use this Internet, I can answer: in a few ways, apart from students and teachers. Firstly, by bringing the fiber optics to every school, the remaining investments in infrastructure that will lead the Internet to households will be cheaper in this sense, that the expenditure on bringing the Internet to this town will already be incurred. Secondly, a little bit of this has also been mentioned today - so that, assuming that these schools are accessible to residents, it will also be possible to use this Internet for other purposes, related to education, entertainment, etc. We also believe that the municipalities will sign agreements with telecommunications operators to provide this Internet not only to schools, but also to other institutions that they have, and I would also like to stress that, as part of the investments carried out by telecommunications operators with the participation of funds from the Operational Programme, we have introduced the obligation to connect not only all schools, because in the case of schools we will finance this Internet, this data transmission service, but also all educational institutions. Thus, where in areas of white spots the operator will receive funding from the operational programme, it will provide the Internet not only to schools but also to all educational establishments according to the terminology of the Educational Law. So not only schools - here the state will also finance the data transmission service - but also all other institutions. The cost of purchasing this internet, tailored to the needs of the facilities concerned, will have to be covered by the local government, but will at least have the opportunity to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u167	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Iwona Michalek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u168	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much to all those who have spoken today, thank you very much to all those who have taken part in committee meetings. I am very pleased that this very much needed project has the support of all of you, and I hope that the amendments that have been tabled here will be quick to proceed at the meetings of the joint committees and we will adopt this very necessary law as soon as possible. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u169	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u170	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Government draft law on the National Education Network and projects designed in connection with its implementation and other government activities for the digitisation of schools are moving towards a civilizational breakthrough in school education. They offer the opportunity to equalise the educational opportunities of all pupils in Poland, especially those living in small centres, learning in schools with a small number of students. What does MEN expect to achieve in the implementation of this project? What are the odds of getting funding from the Operational Programme? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u171	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law on the National Education Network. The aim of this project is to link all schools into a nationwide ICT network, which will provide an Internet access service together with network and ICT security services, as well as ICT tools supporting the learning process towards a digital model. The Polish Education Network (OSE) will be a virtual public telecommunications network based on physical broadband infrastructure. This network will be operated by the entity responsible for launching and maintaining the network and, in particular, for providing broadband services to schools with a symmetrical capacity of at least 100 Mbps together with network security services. There is also an OSE portal maintained by the operator. It will contain a service part, e.g. to report problems, and will enable the participants in the educational process to cooperate. In addition, a platform will be set up to present educational resources that will be created by providers of educational content, including public and educational institutions, universities, scientific and research institutes, educational institutions, NGOs and commercial companies. Importantly, the cost of the programme will remain on the state side. Currently 5,8,000. the location of schools is covered by commercial investment plans of telecommunication undertakings. In these locations, operators will build the network with their own resources. Over 8,000. the location of schools is located in areas where applications for funding were submitted in the framework of the second competition in the first axis of the Operational Programme. The beneficiaries will be required to connect all schools in the areas where they will carry out projects. Other schools that do not have access to high-speed internet will be connected in the framework of the next competitions of the first axis of the Operational Programme. If there remain schools that have not been connected to commercial investments and investments financed by PO PCs, they will be connected by the OSE operator. High Izbo! This project deserves support. Universal high-speed Internet access in schools today is not extravagance, but a basic requirement of modernity. It is good that the formula for building one nationwide system was adopted. This will allow you to introduce high standards of service everywhere, whether you are talking about large-town school or rural school. Numerous educational platforms, which will be accessible through the system, will diversify the curriculum and increase the educational opportunities of pupils. However, the most important thing is to equalise these educational opportunities. If the programme is successfully implemented, by 2020 all schools in the country will receive a high-quality ICT service in a uniform standard. Let us wish that this would happen.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u172	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the Committee on Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies and the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law on the National Education Network. The act under investigation assumes that computer programming is included in the software basis of IT training at every educational stage and that all schools in Poland are connected to the high-speed Internet. Such a change is necessary because only 23% of the units are within the scope of a modern Internet access network enabling the provision of services with a capacity of 100 Mbps. However, only a small part of the service benefits from this standard. As a result, many educational institutions are digitally excluded. The high quality of the Internet allows for the availability of digital educational tools, appropriate education and the acquisition of competences and skills in this area. As a result of the law's entry into force, the differences in educational and professional opportunities between students and teachers from large cities and those from smaller towns and villages have been overcome. With the implementation of the law, the school will be given the possibility of broadband access to the Internet with a minimum standard of symmetrical capacity of at least 100 Mbps, which will ensure an appropriate standard of teaching. The project involves connecting all schools with fiber optics, and where this is not possible, using other types of connections, e.g. Radio line or satellite connection. According to the 2018 assumptions, the possibility to use the OSE will be up to 1.5 thousand. location of schools, and a year later 13 thousand. location. The problem that was raised during the committee meeting and which has to be noted is the total lack of equipment or outdated equipment in schools. In my opinion, the next step that the Ministry of National Education and the Ministry of Digitalization should implement in the near future is to equip schools with new generation of equipment, one that will actually allow the use of broadband Internet. The doubts during the work in committee raised too much, but also new competences of the operator, to which will be the Scientific and Academic Computer Network. I am convinced that they will be completely disbanded in the course of the work. I hope that it will also be possible to offer schools, among others. specialized software, e.g. AutoCAD in industry schools. The idea of high-speed schools being connected to the Internet is a very good initiative that responds to modern civilization challenges. Circle of Free and Solidarni asks for further proceedings of the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u173	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies and the Committee on Education, Science and Youth in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Tax Order (Prints No. 1836 and 1901). I ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u174	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Tax Order, print no. 1836. The Sejm at its 48th meeting of 28 September 2017 pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. The Public Finance Commission, after considering the above draft law at its meeting on 11 October 2017, requests the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. The above project, ladies and gentlemen, introduces four changes to the Tax Order. Amendment 1 concerns Article. 181. I am thinking here about the evidence in tax proceedings, the information that the National Tax Administration collects analytically. Amendment 2 concerns Article. 293. The following paragraph shall be added: 3 on information about the counterparty. Amendment 3 is that after the article. 306i, the following Article shall be inserted: 306ia. We're talking about issuing a certificate here. I Amendment 4 concerns Article. 306k. Introduced above. the provisions are designed to protect taxpayers from the consequences of the dishonesty of counterparties, to introduce a procedure for a fair assessment of counterparties and to enable taxable persons to obtain information on the tax situation of the counterparties. I move as at the beginning of the adoption of this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u175	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr Uściński will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u176	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour on behalf of the Club Law and Justice to present my position on the report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Tax Order Act, print No. 1836. Ladies and gentlemen! In particular, we presented this draft law and the position regarding the content of this project at a previous reading, at first reading, as well as it was discussed in committees, so I will not repeat it. Let me just remind you that, in principle, two amendments are proposed. One of these is the extension of the open catalogue identifying what may prove in tax proceedings, to documents collected during the analysis activities of the National Tax Administration. This theoretically does not change anything, because also in the current legal state they can be used, but it clarifies that and without doubt you will be able to use these documents. The second amendment is the possibility of issuing, at the request of a taxable person carrying out an economic activity, certificates containing information on the fulfilment of fiscal obligations by his counterparty. This would not be the law if not for the biggest scandal of the Third Republic, the scandal in which over 260 billion PLN was stolen from the state budget, the scandal of VAT fraud and other taxes. This bill is perhaps a small but nevertheless part of sealing the tax system and fighting this grey or black zone, the fight against tax crime. This small amendment of the Tax Order will be particularly useful for small enterprises, for those companies which cannot afford to use tax advisers who cannot afford to use the so-called. Business intelligence. This amendment will help these small businesses to secure themselves in a situation where they are faced with a counterparty whose credibility they are not sure is uncertain as to whether by chance this counterparty does not want to involve them in a tax carousel or other tax crime. They will be able to obtain reliable information on the tax obligations of the counterparty. That's good, 'cause they're gonna be able to protect themselves from unwanted involvement in crime, tax carousels and all the consequences. Therefore, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, we strongly support this project and bring it to the House of Honor to praise it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u177	Thank you, sir. Mr Janusz Cichoń, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the impression that we are talking about different laws or that the Member has been wrong and has probably spoken out of this place, because this law, which we are talking about, is basically two things. The first is to eliminate any doubts as to whether the analytical material of the tax authorities drawn up prior to the initiation of the tax audit can be evidence in the proceedings. On this point, we expressed our doubts as to whether this change is really needed, and on the good side of the committee meeting, the Legislative Bureau confirmed to us that our doubts are justified, because this is pure overregulation, because the wording of the article. 180 Tax Order: as evidence, anything that may contribute to the clarification of the case should be allowed, and not against the law, and Article. 181, in which we have an open catalogue of evidence, the wording of "in particular," without any doubt in our view, allows the use of such evidence as analytical materials for typing for control. Pure overregulation, as I say. In the name of peace, we agreed to such a change. In the second part, you are referring to the fact that the taxpayer will have access to information from the tax authorities regarding the submission of declarations, the accuracy of those declarations or other documents, including the tax arrears of his counterparty. I will say this at the outset: this is a non-new idea, it has been repeatedly proposed not so much by business environments as by large consulting companies. In my opinion, this is the implementation of the great four's tax policy. Incidentally, I'm very curious who came up with this idea at the Ministry of Finance. I have, by the way, my types, because this change will certainly drive revenue to consulting companies that will prepare the right product for entrepreneurs. This could lead to a leak of sensitive information, especially in relation to the wording of the article. 293 § 3 point 2 of other documents, and this can really be in the interest of Polish entrepreneurs. In fact, we are not fulfilling in this change what the Member was talking about, and we have encouraged reflection and we have said that these provisions do not address the fundamental issue, namely access to these data before the conclusion of the contract. That's when this information is most needed, not when an invoice or a signed civil law agreement is issued, because then it's already mustard after dinner. Before - with the consent of the taxpayer. If the taxpayer is honest, he has no arrears, he will make such data available himself. If he doesn't, he won't have a contract. Such information should also be made available on a reciprocal basis, in terms of e.g. foreign entities. Unfortunately, there are no such records here. That's our wish, that's our expectations. It was not enough, at first reading, that Minister Walczak expressed his support for these solutions, which I am now talking about, to redefine these records so that access to this information would actually guarantee companies the safety of signing a contract. Unfortunately, these changes have not occurred. This formula, which we finally have in this submission, is simply lame. It does not meet the expectations of entrepreneurs, and certainly the expectations of the great four. Yes, it is. In addition, this creates quite serious costs on the part of the tax administration. Let's remember that, because we're gonna have to issue these certificates a little bit. Incidentally, I am very curious how the Ministry estimates these costs, how many people will have to be employed in this case so that they can handle the issue of certificates concerning counterparties. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u179	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Długi. You're welcome, sir. There's no envoy. Mr Mirosław Pampuch.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u180	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern I am presenting a position on the Act amending the Tax Ordination Act. I also had the indisputable impression that the Member was talking about a completely different law. I thought I was the one who made the mistake, but the end of Mr PiS's speech really indicated that we were talking about the same bill. This law contains two regulations. The first is in principle negligible, Art. 181. You're saying that's a clarification. In the light of the sound of the article. The 180th Tax Order seems unnecessary, but if it is to dispel any doubts, it can be accepted. On the other hand, the amendment also envisages a change in the scope and, in principle, the possibility of exempting from tax secrecy in certain areas of data. Here's the art. 293 § 3 point 2. I also talked about this at first reading, Minister, but I did not get enough explanation. You indicate here that the certificate will indicate that the taxable person is not included or included in the submission of a declaration or other documents of events to which he was obliged under the provisions of the tax laws. The tax laws refer to actual events, sales, purchases, that is, business activities. How will you, as a tax administration, be able to confirm the fact that there is no incident in the declaration submitted? This recipe seems to be executable. It is not really clear why such records should be created unless, as Mr Cichoń mentioned here, this is intended only to be used by advisory firms which will benefit from certain administrative services or a specific product for taxpayers in this regard. So that these doubts remain. I'm asking the Minister to explain them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u181	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mrs Genowefa Tokarska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u182	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the committee on the draft law amending the Act Tax Order, Seym printing no. 1836 and 1901. The Public Finance Commission following the examination of this draft law on 11 October this year. calls for the adoption by the High House of a draft law in principle as proposed by the Government of the unchanged original form. [['Cause no one's making any adjustments.]] Let me remind you that the project contains two independent issues. Firstly, it extends the catalogue of evidence in tax proceedings to documents collected during the analysis activities of the National Tax Administration. The extension of the catalogue itself raises certain doubts arising directly from the article. 180 § 1 of the Act, which states that as evidence, anything which may contribute to the clarification of the case should be allowed and not contrary to the law. So it seems to be some kind of overregulation to include specific documents in a special way, unless there's another bottom that I haven't seen. The second amendment concerns the possibility of obtaining information on the taxable person's counterparty engaged in an economic activity after, of course, the tax confidentiality rules have been excluded. The possibility of obtaining information about the counterparty on the accuracy of its tax settlements is a good solution and will certainly increase the security of honest entrepreneurs. This should also help to build confidence in economic turnover. However, this proposal is based on the fact that the trader will only be able to obtain relevant information about the counterparty after the transaction has been concluded. This follows from the very definition contained in the Tax Order, the definition of a counterparty, that we cannot talk about a potential counterparty here, about a candidate per counterparty. Nevertheless, we believe that information that can be made available to the taxpayer by tax authorities is a positive solution, although this is not some revelation in the pursuit of crime. On behalf of the Polish People's Party, I would like to sum up and say that we will vote in favour of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u183	Thank you very much, Member. Let's get to the questions. One person signed up for the question. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u184	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask you two questions. The first question concerns the financial implications for the state budget. The increase in the number of certificates issued will undoubtedly lead to an increase in administrative costs, an increase in employment, and this in turn means an increase in expenditure from the state budget. Did the Ministry of Finance estimate these costs? How much are they? The second question concerns the taxpayer's access to information and possible risks. Access by the taxpayer to information in such a wide range may expose the disclosure of confidential information, which is often the case at present, because such information is very valuable. Therefore, I ask whether this can adversely affect the competitiveness of these companies and whether it can have other negative effects on their further activities. Is the Ministry convinced that there will be no such abuse in this regard? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u185	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Minister of Finance Wiesław Janczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I thank the representatives of the parliamentary clubs for the summary, for the comments made here. The fact that no amendments have been tabled at second reading and that no significant amendments have been tabled to this government project in the course of the work in the Committee on Public Finances gives me optimism that it has been thought over and clarifies the whole area which is still difficult for entrepreneurs to grasp today, especially as regards some reliability in cooperation with the counterparty, with the business partner. To answer your questions, I must say this: as far as the impact assessment is concerned, we have not foreseen any additional costs here. These tasks will be carried out as part of the current activities. We are able to go as far as possible to meet the expectations of entrepreneurs who are constantly asking that they want to be safe on the trading market, want to have as much information as possible. This bill goes in that direction. The allegation that a question cannot be asked to the tax office about the entire condition of a potential business partner today seems inconclusive because it is contrary to the question that the Member spoke of in the second question. This is a question of access to confidential information, that is the question of the wide range of knowledge about other entities operating in an entity's environment, to which access would be open. It must be said that the basic information on whether the entity is entered in the VAT register is generally available. It must also be said and clarified that information about the counterparty with its consent may also be provided before the transaction is concluded. This actually responds to the doubts that have been raised here, raised. I would also like to say that a single control file, which will apply from January to all entities that are VAT payers, will provide even more information, because this database will be more complete. We are talking about those activities that the IRS is able to take to the maximum extent to secure their counterparties. I'm referring to the art here. 293 § 3, because in one of the club speeches there was also a question. We will have cross information that will give full knowledge of the fact that the invoice may be a fictional invoice, or that the person who made the service or provided the goods did not include it in the report, the JPK, which will be a signal to the recipient of the service or to the goods concerned that the amount of VAT may be treated by the tax office with particular caution and that it is doubtful that the right to recognise this amount as the amount due to be refunded by the participant in that business transaction is recognised. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for working on the bill, thank you to the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Finance. It's all on my side.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u187	I thank the Minister and ask the rapporteur of the committee to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I, too, would like to thank all those who took part in the work of the committee very warmly, but I think that this thanks should be given first and foremost to the ministry. Minister, thank you for the fact that we are adopting - it seems - minor amendments to the large law, which is the Tax Order, but amendments which decide that, above all, smaller, small or medium-sized enterprises, are about small, medium-sized businesses, will have a much larger range of information about their contractors. The words here were that it would be information, first and foremost for the great four, that it would be information for large tax firms. I dare not agree with this because the great ones have business intelligence offices, the great ones know very well what economic operators are dealing with, know about their condition and the dangers involved. These regulations are primarily used by the smallest, those who, going to the tax office, can learn things that will make their cooperation with individual contractors safe, thus leading to the development of these companies, but also the entire Polish economy. It is also surprising that the state's position, which did not make particular comments during the committee's work, has made some criticism of this project today. But, well, it seems like we should... [[I said the same thing I said today.]] ...to move on to the agenda... [[But you haven't tabled any amendments.]] ...that these amendments have not been tabled. I am glad that in this formula they were submitted to the Sejm. Once again, Minister, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u189	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. High Izbo! Before we get to the 5th point, I'm gonna announce a two-minute technical break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 minutes 41 hours 14 min 46]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the excise duty law and the Act on the organisation of certain agricultural markets (prints No 1865 and 1926). I ask Mr Jerzy Małecki to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u190	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Sejm Committee on Public Finance, I have the honour to present a report on the government draft law amending the excise duty law and the law on the organisation of certain agricultural markets contained in Seym printing No 1865. During the committee meeting on 13 October 2017, a discussion was held on this project, the provisions of which represent a further step in the fight against the grey zone in the trade in tobacco products. As a result of the amendments to the excise duty Act, which came into force as of January 2016, the cigarette market was partially sealed. Further action will address irregularities in the form of, inter alia. include tobacco dried fictitious sales in intra-Community supplies. An important problem that brings damage to the state budget and which needs to be addressed is the production of tobacco products by illegal factories. The proposed legislation responds to the existing state of affairs, as it is intended to limit the access of these illegal operators to raw material from domestic production. In its vote, the committee voted in favour of the proposal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Public Finance Commission welcomes the draft law presented and asks for its adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u191	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Gosievski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u192	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the excise duty Act and the Act on the organisation of certain agricultural markets, the original print No. 1865. As a result of the amendment of the excise duty law introduced from 1 January 2016 and as a result of other actions, the fall in the grey zone in the cigarette market has already been observed. The draft law contained in the committee's report 1926 is in line with the Government's submission, which introduced several legislative amendments during the committee's work, and is intended to seal the tax system in the tobacco industry. The tobacco industry is crucial for the state budget due to the high share of excise duty on tobacco products in the overall budgetary impact. In 2016, the State budget for excise duties on tobacco products received revenue of PLN 18,5 billion, which represents an amount of PLN 700 million higher than in 2015. Reinforcing control services should also include more effective control of tobacco drought. The illicit trade in tobacco products so far is yet another of the most profitable spheres of the grey zone. The proposed amendments to the Excise Tax Act aim to seal the tax system for the trading of tobacco drought and to facilitate the pursuit of business activities for legal operators trading in tobacco drought. It is also proposed to allow the lodging of excise security by a third party to facilitate the conduct of business to operators trading in tobacco droughts. In line with the demands of the intermediaries, the upper limit of the flat-rate security lodged by these operators is expected to be reduced from PLN 30 million to PLN 15 million. The Act also introduces another form of excise security, which is a mortgage on real estate. This amendment meets the demands of intermediary tobacco operators in this respect. The amendments to the Act on the organisation of certain agricultural markets aim to seal the marketing of dried tobacco leaves, hereinafter referred to as tobacco raw materials, in Poland. Monitoring of tobacco cultivation and the production and disposal of raw tobacco, as well as control of tobacco cultivation and the production and disposal of raw tobacco are introduced. Ww. monitoring and control are aimed at limiting the supply of raw tobacco to illegally operating tobacco factories. The draft law introduces rules on penalties for non-compliance with the provisions contained in the draft, in order to ensure the reliability of the reported data for monitoring tobacco cultivation in view of the need to limit the supply of raw tobacco to tobacco-producing establishments operating without appropriate registration and not applying the taxes due to the State budget. The proposed solutions actually impose a number of obligations, but are very beneficial for the tobacco industry itself. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the report on the government draft law amending the excise duty law and the law on the organisation of certain agricultural markets included in the sejm print No. 1926. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u193	Thank you, sir. Before I ask Mr Tomasz Głogowski to speak, I would like to inform the High House that our discussions at the gallery are attended by young people from the primary school in Trzcianne, Podlaskie Voivodeship. We cordially greet you. [[Applause]] Please, Mr Tomasz Głogowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u194	Dear Marshal, High Seym! I have the honour to express the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the report of the Committee on Public Finances on work on the Act amending the excise duty law and the Act on the organisation of certain agricultural markets. The first reading of this law took place 2 weeks ago, the principles of this law were discussed in detail also today, so I will not concentrate very much on them. At a meeting several days ago, the Public Finance Commission agreed to adopt a government bill without amendment. Indeed, we are all aware that the tobacco market is one of the areas that generates many problems, and that trade in tobacco generates many problems in the grey area. This is a commodity which is in the interest of criminal groups, from which large profits are made because excise revenue, from trade, is an important element of the state budget. That is why the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club supports this law, realizing that, of course, for tobacco-producing companies they generate a lot, they can generate a lot of nuisance related to formalities, with reporting possible intent to destroy tobacco, accurate registration of tobacco production. Because this is, as I said, a commodity that trade is in a large part of the criminal interest, and there are considerable losses in the state budget because of excise duty that could affect, we assume that this law is legitimate, and we will support it. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u195	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Sachaika.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u196	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the committee's report for printing 1926. This is an extremely expected project by the tobacco industry. The growers, representatives and employees of the tobacco brokers have waited almost two years for it. Once again, I would like to remind you that the tobacco industry in Poland is extremely profitable. As Minister Wiesław Janczyk pointed out at the first reading of the project, in 2016, the state budget for excise duties received revenue of PLN 65,7 billion, including excise duties on tobacco products - PLN 18,5 billion. Revenue from excise duties on tobacco products was 4% in 2016 greater than the previous year. The market for legally processed tobacco products is estimated at over PLN 27 billion. However, there is still a problem in the gray zone tobacco sector. Its size in Poland is estimated at around 25% Total tobacco market and this is one of the highest indicators in Europe. In this project, a great deal of emphasis has been placed on controls among growers, which are a heavy burden for farmers, mainly mental ones, because they are treated as potential criminals. However, the shadow economy is mainly composed of cigarette smuggling from other countries and has nothing to do with growers or intermediaries, but mainly with high excise duties and neighbourhoods of Belarus, Ukraine and Russia, where cigarettes are produced for smuggling to Central Europe. Does the Ministry have control over the quantity of tobacco that is illegally imported into Poland, or does it have reliable data? I understand that the Ministry is implementing a plan to seal the tax system, but the direction it has chosen has a negative impact on honest farmers who want to produce agriculture in peace. Farmers ask how many more checks they will have to endure to be able to work honestly. As far as intermediary tobacco operators are concerned, I am pleased that the project provides for the possibility of storing excise security in the form of a mortgage and by a third party, which I requested almost two years ago. The determination of a maximum amount of excise security of 30 million, an amount identical both to large multinationals and to small, often native, family businesses, was unjustified and led to the elimination of dozens of companies from the market. In a free market age, the question arises as to how many intermediaries we should be talking about. Some will say that the current number is sufficient, others will say it is too small. However, we have lost these intermediaries almost three times in relation to what was before the previous law entered into force. According to the Ministry, such a major loss and the functioning of only 15 intermediaries is currently optimal. However, it seems, looking at the domestic market for small and medium-sized enterprises, that this is far too little. I would like to remind the High House that at the last meeting of the Sejm by the Members of Law and Justice, my motion was rejected to proceed with this law in two committees: the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Agriculture. And please note: one week, one session of the Sejm and the bill is re-accepted. The law, which really changes a lot in the case of these intermediaries, and certainly farmers, does not change much, or actually changes a lot in the case of farmers, because it imposes huge burdens on them. To conclude, I would like to stress that the regulations proposed by the government are in the right direction, but they will not contribute to the development of the tobacco industry, will not bring back to the market operators who have declared bankruptcy and are further aggravating the situation of farmers through the threat of numerous controls. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u197	Thank you very much, sir. I'd like to welcome you to the junior high school gallery in Bialystok, third grade students. Greetings, ladies and gentlemen of junior high school. [[Applause]] Please take the floor of Mr Michael Jaros. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u198	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to make a statement concerning the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the excise duty law and the law on the organisation of certain agricultural markets, print Nos 1865 and 1926. The draft law concerns the coverage of national tobacco production by monitoring and monitoring both tobacco cultivation and the subsequent marketing of tobacco drought. According to the designers, the Act aims to seal the tax system for the trading of tobacco drought and facilitate the pursuit of business activities for legal operators trading tobacco drought. The Public Finance Commission has introduced several amendments to the proposed law, including:: in Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 69a in point 9, the word "should' has been replaced by the word "ma', Chapter 6a deletes the words "authorised person' in Article. 40he in point 2, the words "information referred to in Article." 40hc lips. The information referred to in Article 1 shall be replaced by the words "the information referred to in Article." 40 hc paragraph. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. These changes are more stylistic than substantive. As a result of the proposed changes in sales of tobacco dried with intra-Community supply or export, without excise duty, only tax warehousers, a group of tobacco producers bringing together farmers or an intermediary tobacco operator, and not, as yet, a farmer. The proposed law also adds the provision that buyers of raw tobacco, i.e. intermediary tobacco operators and foreign companies with branches established in the territory of the country, are required to provide the Director-General of the National Agricultural Support Centre with data on the mass of raw tobacco collected by group of varieties. However, this provision is problematic. As indicated during the consultation, the introduction of strict penalties for infringement of the proposed law in the form of non-disclosure, delayed transmission of information, incomplete or non-true information should be postponed in time after a sufficiently long and effective information campaign has been carried out among tobacco growers. By imposing additional burdens on tobacco growers, they can be effectively discouraged from further production, especially given that tobacco cultivation is currently not so profitable. During the committee's work, all our doubts were not resolved and, unfortunately, our suggestions were not taken into account. However, bearing in mind that the sealing of the tax system in the field of trade in tobacco drought is a very important issue for the state budget, and the Modern one is committed to making life easier for entrepreneurs and not hindering it through further administrative burdens, we recommend this draft law. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u199	Thank you. Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u200	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the excise duty Act and the Act on the organisation of certain agricultural markets, prints Nos 1865 and 1926. The Committee on Public Finances discussed this draft at its meeting on 13 October. and, following several changes of an editorial and legislative nature, calls for the adoption of a law by the High House. Unfortunately, the project was not addressed by the Sejm majority to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, and we were hoping for an in-depth discussion in this committee on the whole Polish tobacco market. During my first reading of this project, I tried to signal the problems reported by tobacco producers to both the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development and the Minister for Finance. These conclusions reached me as well. Farmers report numerous irregularities in this market, of course with a request for assistance. The problems generally concern the non-profitability of tobacco cultivation, the undersell of buy-out tariffs by purchasers, the non-payment of raw materials delivered in the last year, as well as in previous years and the slowness of law enforcement and customs in the conduct of control procedures. In this difficult situation for farmers, the government has submitted a project which imposes additional obligations on farmers mainly to provide detailed information on tobacco cultivation itself as well as to sell tobacco drought. The detailed information imposed by the project will allow you to keep so-called from behind the desk. cross-check and make a simple comparison as to whether the quantity of tobacco dried sold is equal to the quantity of concentrated drought. It is farmers who are required to provide information on the area of cultivation, production and disposal of raw tobacco and the conclusion of contracts for the disposal of tobacco, as well as the payment of excise duties in connection with the supply or export of tobacco. In addition, the draft provides for criminal sanctions for farmers in the event of irregularities in the information provided. From this point of view: the additional burden on farmers, the project does not qualify as a purely bureaucratic and restrictive project for tobacco producers, farmers. The register of producers of raw tobacco on the basis of contracts provided by farmers will be kept by the National Agricultural Support Centre, where information on the quantity of raw tobacco collected per group of varieties will also be provided by all tobacco buyers. The project contains few changes for tobacco traders. In fact, the only positive change is the reduction of the upper limit of the flat-rate security lodged by the intermediary tobacco operators or by entities representing the foreign trader from the current PLN 30 million to PLN 15 million and the possibility of setting up an excise security in the form of a mortgage on immovable property, as well as the possibility that the required excise security may also be lodged by third parties. There were significant irregularities in trade in tobacco droughts before 1 January 2016 in terms of fictitious sale or sale of tobacco dried without excise duty to unauthorised persons. The sale of dried tobacco to another intermediary tobacco operator has not been documented. The amendment to the excise duty Act as of 1 January 2016 however eliminated these irregularities and today the project under discussion seems to be a certain overzealous, unnecessary, a manifestation of purely bureaucratic actions. My club, the club of the Polish People's Party, will vote on the project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u201	Thank you, Member. Let's get to the questions. But today she gave birth to us young people at the gallery. This time I would like to welcome representatives of hawk schools, young people from hawk schools. [[Applause]] We welcome you very warmly. Let's get to the questions. If there are no more people willing to ask the question, I close the list. She is the first to ask the question of Mrs Genowef Tokarska. One and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u202	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am a Member of the land, from an area with a large area of tobacco cultivation, and therefore I return to the first-reading and today's difficult situation for farmers, tobacco producers. First of all, this is about some slowness in the conduct of treasury investigations by law enforcement and customs. I would like to ask you a specific question: Does the Ministry of Finance supervise the conduct of control proceedings against specific entities, i.e. Luxor sp. as well as the purchasing entity, what is the Association of Tobacco Producers Pol Tabac from Biłgoraj? The control of these entities according to the information I have been carrying out for more than 4 years. Farmers have not yet received money for tobacco sold. Tobacco has been secured or occupied by customs. Therefore, I ask: When is it possible for the authorities carrying out this check to terminate the proceedings? If possible, please respond in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u203	Thank you, Member. Mrs Iwona Michalek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u204	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The amendments to the Excise Tax Act are intended to seal the tax system for the trading of tobacco drought. We're all in favour of sealing this sphere. I wanted to ask you about specific data. How much will the state budget gain after the implementation of this law? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u205	Thank you, Member. Mr Jarosław Sachajko.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u206	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As I said in my position on the committee's report, the grey tobacco zone is estimated to be 25%. It's a lot. Now I have three questions. Is the gray area still this big? How big is the percentage according to the Ministry's message right now? It's just stealing. Why is it still so big? If it's around 20%, it seems too big. Two other questions. How many inspections were carried out in 2016 in intermediary tobacco operators, and how many checks were carried out among farmers' holdings? Another, third question. How many cases of tobacco smuggling, and how many cases of tobacco smuggling have the Border Guard reported, and how many have been revealed in 2016? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u207	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Gosievski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u208	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, According to the information provided to us in the explanatory memorandum of the bill, the revenue of the State budget for excise duties in this area was 17.8 billion in 2015 and 18.5 billion in 2016. I would like to ask the Minister if, in your opinion, the higher amounts will enter the State budget for excise duties on tobacco products in 2017 and how much is foreseen in the 2018 budget plan. Second question. Is it true that the proposed legal solutions will facilitate the pursuit of business activities by legal operators trading in tobacco droughts? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u209	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Rometki. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u210	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I smoked cigarettes once, and I know how hard it was to get them to smoke. In this connection, I have a question: How many cigarettes from smuggling go to the Polish market? This process results in the loss of the State Treasury. What's the amount, Minister, do you know that? But it also loses our native farmers who grow tobacco. And today I'm going to say, "I don't smoke," I have a central one. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u211	Thank you, sir. The list of Members of Parliament has been exhausted, and I would therefore ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Wiesław Janczyk to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u212	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Thank you for your interest in a project that is a government project. Indeed, it was sent to the Committee on Public Finance after first reading and was not given additional proposals for changes, which means that it was quite well worked earlier at the stage of consultation with the environment. The consultation was attended by the National Council of Agricultural Chambers, the Polish Association of Tobacco Planters in Cracow, the Union of Tobacco Planters in Lublin, the Union of Tobacco Planters in Cracow and many other entities. They did not make any comments on this project. This means that the regulations we are submitting to the High House were expected on the market. First of all, the issue of reducing the excise security lodged by the major intermediaries is reflected in this law, as well as the possibility to lodge a security for excise payments in the form of mortgages. The fear that it's difficult and complicated, I'm gonna let myself be disbanded. This seems to be the least expensive method of performing the security. If we compare it to bank guarantees, to insurance, to blocking funds on the bill, it must be made clear that this regulation is a regulation that meets the demands of the environment, expected and beneficial. A number of questions have been raised about the need to consider whether it is necessary to monitor these plantations. Indeed, it seems that reporting to KOWR about the intention to grow tobacco will not be a great difficulty, because this can be done once. As far as the communication we want to address to this environment is concerned, it will, above all, go to producer groups, which cover 90% of the activities. all production and plantations that are being carried out in Poland. Poland is one of the leading tobacco producers in Europe alongside countries such as Italy, Greece, Spain. We want tobacco trading in Poland to be structured to limit the functioning of the grey zone. Revenue from excise duties on cigarettes is an essential part of the revenue item of the State budget. For the 69 billion we have planned this year, these revenues are to be 19 319 million. This is the answer to Mr Gosievski's question. In the previous year, in 2016, they amounted to PLN 18 484 million. Many years ago it seemed that tobacco production in Poland and demand for this drug would be decreasing. That's not what's happening. It can therefore be said that Poland does not intend to be a country which will apply any special restrictions to people who still use cigarettes here. Today there are also ideas on how to use innovative technologies to meet consumers' needs in this area. As far as this segment is concerned, we are also proposing regulations. It is about the government's responsibility not to move this market, not to move to the sphere of products which, say, are in some sense a substitute for the classical use of tobacco and the absorption of harmful nicotine, while at the same time putting the Treasury at risk of damage to its income when the obligation to treat is incumbent on the government when it is charged to the budget of the Minister of Health and the National Health Fund. They were asking questions about how we estimate the gray area. According to our information, customs data, but also the data available to tobacco companies, the largest tobacco companies operating in Poland, creating jobs here and building new modules of their factories, from which this product is generally also exported to the countries of the European Union, estimate the grey zone, with this legal value rightly set here at 27 billion, not at twenty-six percent, and, say, 14%. The size of the grey zone has recently been reduced by four percentage points. It's an incentive effect. We would not want to make life difficult for anyone, but the tax burden on this raw material is very high, traditionally high, not because the Government of Law and Justice raised excise duties, by no means. We did not come to the Sejm with such a proposal, although in previous years actually year after year excise duties were raised for cigarettes when drawing up another state budget. We here, please appreciate this - I am also addressing growers and all other people here - we are trying to act rationally, we are trying to level the conditions for this activity, to provide a certain objectivity of all the processes of the exchange of this product. This is also used by the registration of plantations, because it is difficult to compete with the market where the goods are delivered to a grey zone where there is no excise duty, there is no income tax paid by operators. That is exactly what is not allowed, but it is not primarily for honest growers, who are not going to fit in the gray area, and that is not possible. I would therefore also like to thank Mrs Tokarska for her balanced voice, who has not yet put forward the position of the club regarding her opposition to this project. We are trying step by step to create rational conditions to conduct this activity to honest entrepreneurs, honest growers, with a view to awareness of their hard work and respecting the tradition of tobacco cultivation in Poland, ensuring that this market can be maintained in line with consumers' needs. And this is the only basic goal that we have, with all this action, ladies and gentlemen, here. There was a question about the additional revenue of the state budget for this regulation. We estimate them in the impact assessment for PLN 79.5 million. I could bring this respect to you here, because, as I recall, there was a question about how this is calculated, perhaps not today, but before that there was a question. So in OSR we have PLN 79.5 million. Data on the disclosure of illicit production were accepted here. It is approx. 27.5 t of tobacco dried, approx. 174 t of smoking tobacco and approx. 44.5 million cigarettes in 2016. The amount of exposed drought in the illicit trade, taking into account the excise duty on smoking tobacco, allowed for an estimate of lost state income of PLN 8 million per year, revealed tobacco - PLN 52 million per year, illegal tobacco production - to PLN 19 million per year. The above forecasts include a weighted average retail price for smoking tobacco and cigarettes. This revenue has been increased by the revenue of the public finance sector - a small amount - due to taxes and contributions from new KOWR employees. We have 18 jobs here to carry out these responsibilities on a national scale. And well, the shown annual costs of the changes related to the supervision of the tobacco market will amount to about PLN 1.6 million per year. PLN 1.9 million, which in 10 years amounts to PLN 18 million, but in the long term, over a ten-year period. As far as the next questions are concerned, the size of the grey zone is already broken down by assortment, so here's the list. For example, the customs services closed 72 illegal factories in 2016, in 2017 - 42 factories. It took 514 million - exactly until the end of this digit I will not give, so as not to bore - cigarette pieces in 2016. For example, their value amounted to PLN 350 million. It is true that Poland is located on the wall of the eastern European Union, which is undoubtedly a place where cigarettes from the east, produced much cheaper, move. I think that in the near future, new methods of securing transports that pass through Poland, especially in transit traffic, will allow us to significantly eliminate the grey zone in terms of imports of already finished products. As regards the question also of Mrs Tokarska concerning individual entities, individual entities, I am not entitled to speak from the Parliamentary Speaker on this subject. We have two-instant decisions - the IRS, then the IRS, then the courts, so I can't answer more precisely here. There is the independence of the organs we value. The Minister of Finance is not empowered, there is no delegation to take decisions of one person, corrective decisions at any time of action or proceedings in such cases. Ladies and gentlemen, for my part, that's it. If there are any further questions, I think there will still be time for an answer during the third reading. I would like to thank the representatives of the clubs for their careful leaning over this subject. Thank you for your speeches, thank you for your comments and questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u213	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Local Taxes and Charges (Prints No 1877 and 1925). I ask Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u214	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the report of the Committee on Public Finance, print No. 1925, on the government bill amending the Act on Local Taxes and Charges, print No. 1877. The Sejm at its 49th meeting on 11 October, in accordance with the Rule. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. The Public Finance Commission, after considering the above draft law at its meeting on 13 October 2017, requests the adoption of the draft law in its entirety. Three articles were discussed at the committee meeting, the committee recommended their adoption and recommended the adoption of the draft law in its entirety. In short, in order to say what it is about: the draft law amending the law on local taxes and charges aims to introduce an obligation for tax authorities to report annually on property tax, agricultural tax and forestry tax to the Minister responsible for public finances selected information on these taxes. Until now, the Ministry of Finance has collected data on real estate, agricultural and forestry taxes by means of voluntary surveys of municipalities carried out at intervals of several years. At the moment, the aim is to improve the conduct of sound tax policies, in particular the design of changes in the property taxation system, including the estimation of the effects of the proposed changes. To this end, it is appropriate to introduce in the Act on local taxes and charges amendments to the rules imposing on the tax authorities of the municipalities an obligation to draw up a report on these three previously mentioned taxes. It should also be added that these changes were accepted and were also requested by the local government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u215	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Jerzy Małecki will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u216	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the government draft law amending the law on local taxes and charges, print No 1877. As regards the content of the proposed rules, it should be noted first of all that they respond to the demands of the local government, fill in the gap in the area of budgetary reporting of local government units, which was created as a consequence of the fact that the transfer of certain data on property, agricultural and forestry tax was carried out by means of voluntary periodic surveys. This method does not guarantee the acquisition of complete data and involves, among others. with the need to prepare forms and develop ways to collect information, i.e. with considerable nuisance and high costs. Once the proposed rules enter into force, the procedure for submitting complete data to the finance resort will be simplified. This will only be done electronically through the Regional Financial Chambers. As a result, the objective will be to increase the capacity to analyse current tax solutions and assess the tax policies of municipalities in order to exploit the income potential of real estate taxation. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the proposal presented and advocates its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u217	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Tomasz Jaskola. Excuse me, Mr Vladimir Nykiel, please. Excuse me, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present an opinion on the draft law amending the Act on local taxes and charges, prints No 1877 and 1925. The project imposes a new obligation on municipalities which, according to its regulations, have been required to draw up annual tax reports on property, agricultural and forestry taxes. Through the Regional Financial Chambers, the report will be addressed to the Minister responsible for public finances. The reports are to be drawn up from 2018 onwards. As you know, the rules on these three taxes are as follows: on real estate tax - in the Law on local taxes and charges, on agricultural tax - in the Agricultural Tax Act, and on forestry tax - in the Forest Tax Act. But the change, the project only applies to the law on taxes and local fees. The reports sent in electronic form will include information on the amount of real estate tax rates, the average rye purchase price - that is, agricultural tax, and the average selling price of wood - that is, forest tax. They will then concern tax bases and tax bases exempt from tax. The project deserves approval, although its introduction means imposing new obligations and associated costs on municipalities. The Ministry of Tax Policy, which prepares new legal solutions, should have adequate information. And this is the most important element of the justification for the solutions contained in the project. However, it should be stressed that such data can also be useful for local government units, and it must be ensured that this information can be widely used not only by the Ministry but also by local authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u219	Thank you. This time, please take the floor of Mr Tomasz Jaskola.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u220	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Of course, it is a project worthy of approval. We don't see any danger here at all. Of course, the Kukiz Club supports such reports. This will make budgetary policy easier for the government. Besides, you're right, Professor. Nykiel noted that this would introduce some kind of competitiveness between municipalities. Let me just stress that Kukiz has long been creating such tax maps across the country, and this is not new to us, and it will make it easier for the government to work. I only have one doubt... Of course, this will not result in an increase in employment, and I have no doubt about that either. It is very simple, it seems, printing, the more that the system is based on the IT system of the local authorities via RIO. I'm just wondering if this isn't some kind of preparation for the cadastral tax in the future as part of the assessment of the value of real estate, but I'm saving this for the future. The project deserves support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u221	Thank you. Mr Marek Owa.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u222	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law on local taxes and charges. Like my previous speakers, the Modern Posel Club does not question the need to introduce an obligation to submit annual reports. We will also vote in favour of this bill. I would like to make it very clear that any data that is introduced into the system should be publicly available data, data that everyone will be able to use, which everyone will be able to manage and which can be used to draw the right conclusions in this regard. It must be admitted that if mandatory solutions are introduced, their level of accuracy because of the fact that there is a duty, it is necessarily much higher. But the most important thing is that we can use these databases that will be created in a proper way. I hope that this solution, which is proposed here, which imposes an obligation on the tax authorities responsible for fixing agricultural, forestry and real estate taxes, i.e. really local authorities, will simply work in practice and be beneficial in terms of implementation. I regret that you have not introduced this request, which was submitted by the Polish Towns Association, so that this report also includes statutory reliefs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u223	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Genowefa Tokarska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u224	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the report of the committee on the government bill amending the Act on Local Taxes and Charges, prints No 1877 and 1925. At its meeting on 13 October, the Committee on Public Finance analysed this project and, taking into account in principle only a few changes of an editorial and legislative nature, recommends the adoption of this proposal by the High House. I will say nothing innovative here that the project actually imposes certain obligations here mainly on local governments, because it is about property tax, agricultural tax and forestry tax. It shall specify precisely what information and by what date it is to be provided in the form of an electronic finance minister through the Regional Financial Chambers. An integral part is the regulation of the Minister for Development and Finance, which will clarify this even more strongly. A copy of this report shall be submitted. And I do not want to question absolutely the validity of such reporting and such information, which can be useful not only for the government, but also for the local government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u225	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u226	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Local Taxation and Charges. The draft law submitted is intended to introduce a mandatory annual report by the tax authorities competent in matters of property tax, agricultural tax and forestry tax. The reports will be transmitted electronically to the Minister responsible for public finances through the Regional Financial Chambers. So far, the Ministry of Finance has only had access to data on the budgetary revenues of these taxes and on the consequences of reliefs and exemptions. After the amendment of the law, the Ministry will gain access to data on the tax base of individual taxes, areas or exemptions from charges on the basis of decisions of the municipality council, as well as to current tax rates in individual municipalities. So far, data on tax rates have been collected by means of surveys which did not give a complete picture of the tax policy pursued in individual municipalities. I believe that the amendment of the law will significantly contribute to increasing the scope for sound tax policy. The deadline for preparing the report has been adjusted by the projectors to the deadline by which the relevant tax authorities will have access to the information needed to submit the report. The proposed regulation does not entail an increase in expenditure or a reduction in the income of financial sector entities. In my view, the preparation of the annual report will not be too much of a burden for the employees of the tax authorities who will be responsible for preparing the report, especially in relation to the benefits that this report will bring. The amendment of the Act will increase the scope for analysing existing tax arrangements, facilitate the assessment of the structure of revenues broken down by type of tax entity and the determination of average rates of taxation in individual municipalities. This in turn will allow for a more rational tax policy of the government, which will benefit all of us. About Free and Solidarnia both before and now supports the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u227	Thank you, Member. Let's get to the questions. Do any of the ladies and gentlemen of the House still wish to enroll in the question? If not, I ask you to ask Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u228	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As we have heard, all parliamentary clubs and around Free and Solidarni agree basically on the validity of the proposed changes. The only doubts raised were in principle the costs and the amount of work needed to be put into practice. I would therefore like to clarify that the report referred to in this draft law will be transmitted only in electronic form through regional accounting chambers. So there won't be any, as you say colloquially, extra paperwork at the municipal offices or city offices. The existing IT system for managing the budgets of local self-government units, colloquially called the beast, will be used to transmit these data. So that there will also be no financial expenditure, the whole envelope related to the creation of some new information systems, etc. Also in the explanatory memorandum of this bill, emphasis is placed on showing that it will be a simple, clear and basically non-generating system of any additional costs and additional bureaucracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u229	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Gosievski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u230	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, It is very important, in my opinion, that the solution adopted in this Act is the introduction of an annual obligation for municipalities to report on property tax, agricultural tax and forestry tax. Until now, there has been a lack of reporting on taxes for which municipal tax authorities exist and are widely used. Minister, when will it be possible - as a result of this law - to obtain information which municipality in my voivodship, Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship, to what extent does the rate of exemption from property tax, agricultural tax and forestry tax apply? I would ask the Minister for such an analysis concerning the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship when it is prepared. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u231	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Małecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u232	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question: Do the municipalities, of course in a survey, fill in such information and send it to the Ministry of Finance? If it's in electronic form... I understand that costs should generally decrease. I'm asking you to answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u233	Thank you, sir. Please address the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Wiesław Janczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u234	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In answer to the second of the questions asked, because Mr Stawiarski here himself responded precisely to the issues raised and used correct arguments, there is nothing to correct in this speech, as regards Mr Gosievski's question, we will prepare these data for the Warmia-Mazury voivodeship in July on the basis of the materials we will have at our disposal. We'll share the reports, too. It'll be a possibility. We want the local authorities to be able to look at their local tax policies. The Joint Government and Local Government Commission has often addressed this issue during its meetings, and in fact this proposal to amend the Act on Local Taxation and Charges is in line with this request made in its forum. As mentioned in the last question, we believe that this operation will not be burdensome for the municipalities in terms of reports and will not require additional costs or increase employment in local government units for this regulation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u235	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. Thank you. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the Public Finance Commission's report on the government bill amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals (prints Nos 1878 and 1943). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u236	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First reading of the bill amending the Act on personal income tax, the Act on corporate income tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals, print No. 1878, took place on 24 October, sorry, 11 October. The Public Finance Commission at its meeting on 24 October considered this draft law. Members, Minister Paweł Gruza and representatives of the social side spoke during the several-hour procedure for discussing the various amendments presented in the bill. Members have tabled several amendments which have been subject to the voting procedure after their discussion. The Commission voted against four amendments. A motion to reject the bill was also filed. This project was rejected. The Committee on Public Finance, in accordance with the content of the 1943 print report, asks the High House to adopt the attached bill together with the amendments adopted and to submit, at the request of the applicant, a minority request submitted by Mr Jakub Kulesza. This request concerns the introduction after Article. 6 of this draft law art. 6a as follows: For the expenditure referred to in Article. 15e paragraph. 1 Act as amended by Art. 2 as amended by this Law and effected before the date of entry into force of this Law and not previously included in the cost of obtaining revenue, the provisions of the Act as amended by Article shall apply. 2 in the current version. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u237	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice - Mr Lech Sprawka. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u238	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present my position on the report on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals. As the rapporteur has just mentioned, these amendments, which were adopted at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, have generally not changed the agreement of this project. Referring to my first reading, I would like to emphasise once again three areas of change, namely the legislation sealing the corporate income tax system, provisions aimed at facilitating business activity, in particular by small and medium-sized enterprises, including simplifying and clarifying the current regulations, and provisions increasing the tax reduction applied to the calculation of personal income tax on a tax scale, so-called. the tax-free amount and an increase of 100%, i.e. up to PLN 85 528 per year, 50% application limit the cost of obtaining revenue for the creators. It is also about provisions concerning natural persons not engaged in business activities increasing the amount of PIT exemptions and extending the scope of income exemptions and deductions. The list of at least three areas shows that the draft law covers a very wide range of beneficiaries. As far as the first point I have mentioned is concerned, the beneficiary will be the state budget through an increase in tax revenue, which will translate into participation and the possibility of allocating these funds to various expenditures, such as social expenditure. It is also a regulation that significantly improves competitive conditions, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. The second of these areas, which I mentioned, primarily concerns the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. Finally, the third, very important, also covering a very wide range of beneficiaries, because as far as the tax-free amount is concerned, this applies to people with the lowest income, among others. Rentists. As regards the increase in the amount related to the cost of obtaining revenue for the creators, this applies to the whole community of artists. Finally, the third point is the issue of various reliefs, which translate, among others. on the situation of persons carrying out care activities with disabled persons. Thus, the whole spectrum of beneficiaries makes Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully support the solutions presented, while at the same time submitting several amendments, such as clarify or clarify those doubts which were signalled at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Public Finance. I would like to point out that there was only one statement of opposition at the meeting yesterday on one change, and I must say that at the end of the day I was surprised to receive the entire bill when it came to the Civic Platform club, and so did the club of the Polish People's Party. After all, these changes serve so many beneficiaries that we cannot understand why you have taken such a position. Thank you for your attention, and I am handing over the amendments to the parliamentary club to your marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u239	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to welcome you to the gallery of representatives of the School Complex of the Center for Agricultural Training in Novosielce, Podkarpacie. We welcome you very warmly. [[Applause]] Please take the floor of Mr Janusz Cichoń. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In fact, the project is a peas with cabbage, shaving with thick threads, on the one hand under the seal of the tax system, on the other hand - alignment with the European Union directive, and intertwined threads related to the free amount, with a lump sum. A proverbial pea with cabbage. Without denying the need to counter aggressive optimization through the use of financial derivatives or the transfer of profits abroad, it is worth noting that instruments already exist today that allow effective fight against such practices. We have a tax avoidance clause, we have a CFC, we have transfer prices. The problem seems to be very serious as regards the use of existing legislation. I also have some confirmation on these issues in response to the interpellations I submitted to the Ministry. I understand that there is a gap in CIT of over 40 billion, and so far experts estimate it, and there is no significant progress in reducing it, and in my view the key role should be played here by tax administration, tax control, with decent legislation, which unfortunately I cannot say about this legislation, because it is largely affecting... in its intention to punish and catch criminals or to prevent fraud, it really harms honest entrepreneurs. And some of these solutions raise our doubts. First of all, the separation in the Corporate Income Tax Act of the source of income in the form of capital gains and the separation of income derived from that source from other income of the taxpayer or the introduction of provisions limiting the cost of obtaining income in connection with intangible services contracts. That's what I said. You want to limit fraud, but you're actually making the conditions of all taxpayers' management worse. Although this is the case, we are ready to support these solutions, given the objective of reducing fraud and reducing the corporate income tax gap. But the formula you're proposing here, which is the introduction... This is a problem that prompts us to vote against this bill. We're proposing appropriate amendments. We do not agree to introduce new taxes, which will affect all Polish families so well. If you are asking how beneficial this solution is, then following the introduction of the so-called. the minimum income tax for taxable persons with commercial real estate of significant value arises a new tax, a transferable tax which will ultimately charge Polish families. Remember, too, what you promised - that you will not raise, that you will not create new taxes. And by the back door, you're taxing entrepreneurs with real estate, and that's a quasi-tax from shopping malls and office buildings. At the same time, the design and location of this tax amaze the best professionals. Income tax on income on income as a tax base, with property in fact in its nature, initial value as a threshold eligible for taxation. They're really shivering when it comes to construction. And all this in violation of constitutional principles of equality - art. 32 Constitutions, the universality of taxation - Article. 84. The second issue that we have resisted is that we have also signalled in the committee meeting and we will not give up here, namely the elimination of the income tax exemption for agricultural services provided by agricultural holdings with excess work on the subject, [[♪ The bell ♪]] machines and equipment, because this will affect the costs of services paid by Polish farmers, several hundred thousand farms. I have amendments - on behalf of the Civic Platform Club - which will allow us, I hope, to vote in favour of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u241	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Paweł Grabowski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u242	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Poselski Kukiz Club15 in relation to the draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals, prints No 1878 and 1943. I specifically listed the entire title of this law amending three laws, because it is a kind of masterpiece of legal art. Here I will give you a brief example, a piece from this project: Taxpayers referred to in Article. 3 (1) (a) 1 are obliged to exclude from the costs of obtaining revenue incurred in a given tax year the costs of debt financing in the part in which the excess cost of debt financing exceeds 30% of the amount corresponding to the excess of the sum of revenue from all revenue sources minus interest income over the sum of the costs of obtaining revenue less the value of the tax year in question to the costs of obtaining the revenue of depreciation charges referred to in Article. 16a-16m, and the cost of debt financing. Ladies and gentlemen! This legal gibberish may be understandable... I'm sure you understand him, a few patrons who sit in this room, also understand what's written here, but in Polish society, most citizens are not tax advisers or lawyers. So the general question: What is the point of creating such complex rules that have hundreds of exemptions, exceptions, where one rule has several lines? A normal person just can't even read it, let alone understand it. It's creating some kind of chaos, it's creating a law that a normal citizen doesn't understand and doesn't understand. The question is, why make such a law? Because when it comes to the idea itself, what is written in the explanatory statement that you want to take one and give the other, specifically here you indicate the goals, e.g. issues, what is it called nicely, social justice, passwords... You put recipes in passwords that are absolutely incomprehensible. You continue to complicate the tax system in Poland and, for example, there can no longer be the consent of the Kukiz club15, a civil group, an anti-system group that does not agree to further complicate these rules. Maybe it's worth thinking about rewriting all these laws, about creating a tax system in Poland at all, because what we have today is often referred to as a tax mess. But just so it's not that Kukiz is only criticizing at such a very general level, it's concrete. Minister! There were so many promises that you would raise the tax-free amount to 8,000. zł. And okay, there's actually an amount of 8,000 in these records. zł, it is said that it is a tax-free amount, but only for those who earn no more than 8 thousand. per year. Then I ask you, Minister: How many Poles earn less than 8 thousand in Poland. A year? It's some kind of narrow group. We have a minimum wage of about 2,000. zł, so 1/3 of the minimum annual salary is to be exempt from tax if someone no longer earns more. If someone makes more money, they're already cutting their tax-free amount. And now what's most important: there's a limit of 13,000. zł. If someone's already such a cresmus, they're making 13 grand. PLN per year, then it has a tax-free amount of PLN 3091, which is basically It's not a change, because we've had a tax-free amount like this for a few years now. So you're introducing an apparent solution. Few of this, many of our friends, people who come to the parliamentary offices or harass us on the street, says: and yet Law and Justice increases the tax-free amount. That's not true, you don't increase the tax-free amount, because it's just a small group of citizens, you're creating some kind of appearance, you're making it more complicated as to the tax-free amount. Therefore, we consistently, today again, this time as amended, submit our proposal to increase the tax-free amount to the amount of 30,000. zł, as it is in the case of Members, so that normal citizens have the same level of tax-free amount as Members have, even though we know that this amendment will be rejected, because recently everyone: and PO, and PiS, and Modern, and PSL, together you rejected our proposal to increase the tax-free amount to this real level. I'm moving on. You're introducing a new tax, so-called. paracatastral. Here's the question. Now you're going after shop owners and office owners, but that's the first step. What's next? Who else are you going to tax? House owners? Car owners? If someone already has a car or an apartment, in a year or two, you might want to introduce a tax like that on the possession of certain goods. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So that, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to accept the solutions proposed here. And the last sentence. The biggest masterpiece, however, is that in this project you are also pushing positive solutions, which are to cover the negative ones. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u243	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Pampuch. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u244	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modernly, I am presenting my position on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals. There is no doubt that this has already become the tradition of this House, that the Law and Justice set out in a single law both unacceptable rules and provisions that could be welcomed. Certainly, the provisions in the corporate tax and personal income section, where the ATAD Directive is being implemented, which are aimed at countering the transfer of profits to other countries for the purpose of its more favourable taxation, namely the pursuit of respect for the principle that we pay taxes in the place where profits are generated, and all those provisions which serve to seal the tax system by preventing tax optimization, deserve support. On the other hand, there is an indication in the justification of this law of an amount free of tax of 8 000. zł. Reading this justification, I say: finally, yes, Prime Minister Szydło fulfilled her promises with the exposé. But I'm reading the bill and it turns out, of course, that we're dealing with a bluff, because this tax-free amount is only for people who earn 8,000 each. zł. But as Modern - because, I understand, this is a mistake. simply the Minister, you have wrongly formulated the provision of the law in relation to what is contained in the explanatory memorandum - we are fixing this error. We will make an appropriate amendment according to the wording of the justification of the law, so that it agrees with the wording of the law with justification, because it is very important not to deceive Poles, but to tell them the truth. It is also important to tell the truth about tax raising issues. The state is introducing another tax, this time income tax. It's hard to call it income tax, it's really property tax. In addition, in my view, there are very large doubts as to whether we are not dealing with the same property tax, because income tax for property owners worth more than PLN 10 million is nothing but a tax that preserves the identity of the object, building, and taxpayer. The difference is only in the tax base. Where are the differences between real estate tax and income tax, apart from what has already been said, that it is difficult, as the Legal Office of the Sejm pointed out, to accept that the Income Tax Act should also include value taxes? Another shift. You wanted to build 3 million apartments. Of these 3 million apartments nothing is left, while the developer market is well, the apartments are built. What do you want to do? Reduce issues related to the construction of new dwellings because you are introducing a new flat-rate income tax rate of 12.5% on rental revenues of more than 100,000. zł. This is clearly another tax raise. In the same way, you introduce taxation of income from economic activities in the agricultural sector. So far, there has been an amount of income tax exemption from individuals. I don't know if farmers have become such a very rich group at the same time, which doesn't require investment. In our opinion, no. It is therefore modern, bearing in mind that indeed this law contains a number of good provisions related, among others. with an increase in the value of the fixed measure, which can be counted directly into costs, submit the relevant amendments to this government submission and make the positive vote on the draft law subject to the adoption of the proposed amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u245	Thank you very much, sir. And please take the floor of Mrs Genowefa Tokarska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u246	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Also on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law - a comprehensive one, so let me put it briefly - about PIT, CIT and flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals. These are 1878 and 1943 prints. The Committee on Public Finance yesterday analysed this project. There have been very, very many legislative and editorial changes to the project, and it should not be surprising, because it is an extremely comprehensive document, as well as a dozen substantive changes, but - and I would like to draw attention to that - only those changes which have been made by Members of the Law and Justice have been taken into account, no other amendments have received support from the majority in committee, i.e. from Members of the PIS. The changes adopted include: clarification, identification of the creative activities to which the rules on revenue costs may apply, restriction on what transactions affect the taxpayer's income, which may result in the dissolution of the capital group, the introduction of additional transfer pricing rules, the determination of the rules and the calculation of the tax base in the case of joint ownership of the property, including in the form of participation in a personal company, the clarification of transitional provisions in respect of provisions for undocumented credit risk. A broad discussion was held in the case of commercial property taxation. That's what my predecessors were talking about. Let me remind you - it's a new income tax, at least that's what the government calls it, on property income of a fixed asset, whose initial value exceeds PLN 10 million. It was pointed out in the course of this discussion that it is clearly selective tax which is incompatible with the constitutional principle of equality vis-à-vis the law, and that it is a tax the cost of which, as in the case of a bank tax, or the retail tax currently withheld, can easily be passed on to customers, to citizens. In addition, the committee did not agree to the deletion of the provision on taxation of income from economic activities where they were destined for agricultural activities. Gentlemen have already raised this subject. The exemption from this tax has been in operation in the Polish legal system since 1994 and aimed at stimulating the development of agricultural activities, it was simply helpful for small farms, which in Poland have a lot and which do not have their own specialised equipment, but benefit from the rental of these agricultural services. So this is where the costs directly increase for those farmers with small-scale farms. Speaking of the whole project, it must be said that the project is very extensive, as also stressed by my previous speakers, complicated. There are good things in there, but they're also so sneaky. I would like to remind you that in part it implements a directive of the Council of the European Union which aims to counter tax avoidance practices. That's the ATAD directive. What is most important in this ATAD Directive is the drive in the income forum of corporate companies to ensure that taxes are paid at the place where profits are generated and value is generated. So in this part, this applies to large international companies, it actually seals taxes. It's a good thing. There are many such very small proposals for some kind of amenities for small and medium-sized enterprises, for people for rehabilitation purposes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So, as has been said, the project contains many such positive but minor changes, but there are also items that raise big, big doubts. The Polish People's Party Club will express its attitude to this in the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u247	Thank you, Member. Mr Ireneus, I ask you to take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals together with the report of the Public Finance Commission. Technical and editorial amendments were made to the draft law at the meeting of the Public Finance Commission. The Free and Solidarnia Circle accepts the amendments adopted by the committee. Some controversy for some economic environments may result in the introduction of taxation of commercial and service real estate worth more than PLN 10 million. However, it must be considered that this tax is a form of equalising market disparities between small and large-scale entities and of closing the dominant position on the market of the latter. At the committee meeting, employers' organisations and industry associations raised reservations regarding the exemption from the tax deduction of part of the costs. We share the view of the Ministry of Finance that the limits of the excluded costs have been well balanced and are necessary to seal the system and hinder the transfer of profits beyond the borders of the country. The abolition of exemptions for large agricultural operators who are legal persons will lead to a level playing field between small and large farms. We see the positive impact of the proposed tax regulation on the conditions of operation and development of Polish small and medium-sized enterprises. The tightening of the rules will reduce the possibility of applying the so-called. aggressive tax optimization with caution in the introduced regulations in order to preserve the competitiveness of the Polish economic area. Moreover, through the introduction of the solutions proposed in the draft law, the government is carrying out announcements on the increase of the tax-free amount for the most economically vulnerable groups. The limit on the application of income costs to creators will be increased and solutions will be put in place for taxpayers to extend the titles of tax exemptions and deductions. The bill is extremely extensive and wide. So that it is difficult at this point to discuss the details of this solution, especially since my previous speakers have already presented many of these specific aspects. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle will support the bill submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u249	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. Please, Mr Zbigniew Ajchler is the first question to be asked. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u250	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, My question is about change 21. It's about art. 17 and delete point 4e. Minister! Don't you think that corporate income tax, which will occur, will be included in the cost of the service and will increase the service, the value of the service, and the farmer will pay for it? Is it fair that the agricultural activity: orca, sowing, spraying, etc., carried out by legal persons is non-agricultural and, in the case of a farmer, not? Where is the equality of entities resulting from the Constitution of the Republic of Poland? If there are frauds of other entities in this field, they should be cut off, but in another way. Are classic legal entities living from classical agricultural production by... Purchased machinery as inputs from agricultural production, but sold, is treated as non-agricultural income. Is that fair? Rent for arable land is also treated as non-agricultural income. Isn't it a shame that the excess capacity of agricultural services can be stopped in many legal entities? Minister! The solutions so far may not have been ideal, but they have stimulated development. If you want to strictly respect tax matters, and I think that these agricultural services are also excellent, I would say, a complementary source for many players in the market, also small ones, because they are not just piers, they should be left behind. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So that I ask you to take a look at this, Minister, to lean over this case, and if you make modifications, it's to a different extent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u251	Thank you, sir. Mr Stefan Romecki, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u252	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My question: Why don't you lift the income limit for artists? This limit was introduced by the Civic Platform. And since everything that the Platform has done is wrong, it might be worth thinking about and even putting up with that limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u253	Thank you. Mr Blazej Parda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u254	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have this bill right here. One basic question: When will you finally raise the tax-free amount? For now, from what I can see and can still read, it has been reduced by 2% of inflation, which is planned for next year. 95% of the population will have a reduced tax-free amount. She's at $3,000, but it's real for $3,000. You can buy less. If someone earns at least PLN 1100 a month, according to Law and Justice he is apparently a rich man because he has an increased tax-free amount. The question is, when did it end? It's going to be really elevated. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u255	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u256	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Modern has always been and will be against raising, increasing taxes and imposing additional amounts on businesses. Are you aware that for all the regulations that you make, for these extra fees, for the extra taxes, for all this, the customers will pay for it? The normal thing is that if a trader carrying out a commercial activity is charged additional costs, he will transfer it to the price of the product he sells. In the end, you will, of course, have an additional source for the budget, and society will pay for all of this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u257	In this we have exhausted the list of people who are written down for questions. I therefore ask that the Undersecretary of State speak at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Paul Gruza. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u258	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Four questions. Agricultural relief - a turbulent discussion at the committee meeting on this issue. We listened to this discussion as a government side, we re-examined this provision and we believe that we are validly eliminating this relief in the Corporate Income Tax Act. Why? Because, let me repeat, we believe that this relief is creating an imbalance in the market, an imbalance in the fact that the tenants who rent machinery for a professional reason pay income tax, while in the market they also operate those who do not pay this tax on the same activity. And this is difficult to justify systemically, and even impossible - why such preference should be applied to some rather than all. [[This is about agricultural legal entities.]] It's about agricultural legal entities. This rule or its liquidation will affect about 900 entities in the country, not 760,000... [[Minister, this is about those who live from agricultural production classically and only complement their income are non-agricultural ones...]] That's right. On the other hand, this supplement is quite broad because it represents an important share of their revenue, and causes unequal treatment. I would like to point out that our entire law amending corporate income taxes is designed to equalise competition by the fact that there are no enclaves of non-payment tax. Unfortunately, any non-agricultural activity should be subject to income tax, because that is the sense of the universality of taxation, which also fell in this Chamber, notabene from the same side of the Seym. In addition to structural arguments, there are purely sealing arguments. This provision is an incentive to abuse. We have indications that, as part of this income tax-free business, businesses of dubious nature, a dubious purpose, even the trade in debt... [[Farmers don't make debts, Minister.]] They don't make debts, but apparently they trade public debt to the detriment of state entities. These entities are still releasing income from this... by hiding this trade inside the farm accounts. Therefore, due to these structural and sealing elements, we believe that this change is justified. Nor is it true that it touched 760,000. farmers, because our statistics show that this will affect about 900 entities. About... [[But the effect will be different... more farmers...]] Whether income tax is passed on to a customer is one of the fundamental questions of the economy, and that is why there are income taxes - the difficulty in passing it over is part of the meaning of these taxes. If we assume that agricultural machinery prices and agricultural machinery rental prices are an overriding good and we should protect them as much as possible and limit those prices, perhaps they should all be exempt from income tax and VAT. And that's the wrong question. If a person engages in non-agricultural activities, it should be taxed on income tax. [[But I'm talking about agricultural...]] As far as the limit for artists is concerned, we believe that the proposed change, i.e. doubling this limit is appropriate both to the budgetary situation and to the purpose of honouring the privilege of this particular group of creators. When's the amount free? We're successfully raising the amount free. I think it is obvious that this is not the last step in raising the amount of free money, nor is it true that taxpayers have proposed only a fictional increase of that amount. More than 4 million taxpayers will benefit from a new higher amount of free money. As regards the transfer of income tax to the prices offered by companies to customers, I will say that this is again an argument of a systemic and structural nature. Of course, some of the income tax is passed on to the price, while this tax is called direct tax, because it generally hits the taxpayer, as opposed to, for example. VAT, which is an indirect tax, which is only transferred by the trader. Of course, some can be passed on to the consumer at a price, but this is an argument that undermines the sense of income tax at all. If we believe that taxes should not be included in the price of goods, then we should eliminate income tax. And that's the proposal. whether the thesis behind this question, of course, we believe that this thesis is false. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u259	Thank you very much. The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Andrzej Szlachta, will also speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u260	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to thank all the ladies and gentlemen who took part in the debate at the first reading of the bill in the plenary room and those who took part in yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Public Finance. The committee meeting lasted several hours, the project is extensive, multifaceted, it concerns three groups of taxpayers and it is difficult to agree with the extreme thesis that has been put here today, that this bill is a project that raises taxes. This is a false thesis, because as soon as we exchange this tax, i.e. the tax resulting from the increase of the tax-free amount to 8 thousand, this provision applies to taxpayers who are in the most difficult situation, so we are acting in accordance with the principle of tax solidarity. On the other hand, we will improve the situation of creators, where we raise revenue by 100%. , and it is also a very large group of creators, artists, singers, scientists, architects who create a work, so it is also the social expectation of this group of taxpayers. I wanted to thank you for the next amendments that have been tabled today, and the finance committee will lean on them. As in yesterday's committee meeting, the Minister and his team are at your disposal. Anyone who attended the meeting could ask questions, express their doubts - and parliamentarians - and representatives of the social side who also actively spoke during the meeting. So that once again I thank everyone and I think that as a result of the adoption of any further amendments, a project will be created, which will, however, improve the situation of taxpayers in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u261	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws (Prints No 1543 and 1895). I ask Mr Rafał Weber to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u262	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When representing the Committee on Infrastructure, I have the honour to present our report on the draft in print 1543. This is a government bill amending the Road Traffic Law Act and some other laws. The Commission addressed for the first time this government submission on 8 June this year. During our meeting there was a general debate, and at the end we decided to set up a subcommittee to work this project thoroughly. The subcommittee, which I had the honour of chairing, met at three meetings, two substantive ones. The first was held on July 5th. We held a general debate on this subject with all parties and on 13 September this year. we worked this draft article after the article. Our work, the work of the subcommittee, was presented at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee on 11 October. Five amendments were tabled to this draft law at this meeting. These are mainly technical amendments and relate to a certain detail of the entries submitted in this printing. All amendments were adopted unanimously. At the end of the meeting there was a vote on the bill. All Members present at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure unanimously recommended that the High House adopt this draft law. I would like to remind you that this is a government submission of a draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws, contained in print No. 1543, while our report, the report of the Committee on Infrastructure, is contained in print No. 1895. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u263	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Aleksander Forczyński, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present the position of the club regarding the government draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws. So far, there have been no provisions in Polish legislation that allow the so-called. professional vehicle registration, which would simplify the activities of vehicle distribution, production or testing operators and enable testing vehicles to be carried out in the course of their activities. The professional registration of vehicles would entitle the operator involved in the activity, the authorised body or the test body of the vehicle manufacturer to use the professional registration certificate and the professional registration plates for the purpose of carrying out the test driving of vehicles in the course of the activities carried out by those operators. The package of professional vehicle registration requirements proposed in this project is an effective legal tool to reduce the administrative burden while at the same time serving the legal and safe use of vehicles. The proposed law will allow testing vehicles to be carried out in the course of their activities by entities involved in the distribution, production and testing of vehicles. It should be noted that professional registrations together with professional registration plates will allow an authorised trader or an authorised entity to use many vehicles on the road for the purpose of their business activity in the field of distribution, production or testing of vehicles. Professional vehicle registration, which is enjoyable, applies not only to new vehicles, but also to second-hand vehicles, including previously registered or imported from abroad. I would like to point out that such solutions are applied by other Member States and that the absence of such solutions was unjustified. It caused Polish vehicle distributors to be in a worse position than their colleagues in other countries. A significant change in the proposed law should also be noted. According to the existing regulations, a person interested in buying a vehicle is not entitled to drive in person to check the vehicle before it is acquired. The project provides for this possibility for the future buyer of the vehicle. This possibility will also exist for vehicles imported from abroad. Attention should also be paid to the changes in the above mentioned. new laws concerning Code of Offences, Road Transport Act, Mandatory Insurance Act. The good thing is that there's an emergency rule in the article. 5, with a view to providing sufficient time for the preparation of an electronic solution and the determination of the conduct by the holder, in paper or electronic form, of the list of commercial vehicles, i.e. not more than 24 months from the date of entry into force of the proposed law. Positively, the date of entry into force of the Act should be assessed: 18 months after the date of publication. In determining this deadline, account has been taken of the need to provide sufficient time for the adoption of a package of implementing rules. To sum up, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support the government's draft law on amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u265	Thank you very much. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't see the Minister. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Is it? [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] Good morning, Minister. The Civic Platform Club will also support this project, as it represents a step towards the market. The automotive industry has been asking for a long time to introduce rules allowing professional registrations and plates to be used, as it sees an opportunity to simplify the procedures for conducting its own business. Although this project was submitted to the government by Mrs. Beata Szydło, the work started earlier. At that time a very broad consultation was launched with both automotive companies, leasing companies and insurance companies. This aspect was also highlighted in the work of both the subcommittee and the committee. It is worth noting to the public what practical benefits come from the introduction of this professional registration document. Assuming that one company involved in the marketing of motor vehicles would have to obtain temporary registration for 100 vehicles each time... The trader applying for this registration must complete a specific application and take him to the office. With about an hour for one registration, 100 vehicles would lose about 100 hours in a year. In terms of working days, this is just over 12 working days, which would cost almost 2 weeks to get these 100 documents. Thanks to this law for a similar number of vehicles will receive blanks on the occasion of one visit - it will take from one hour to three hours - and will be able to make vehicles available for test drives, completing the necessary formalities. The question arises as to whether we have sealed this system sufficiently when it comes to insurance. It cannot be ruled out that during the test drives there will be collisions, minor collisions, knocking off, not to major accidents. The question is whether the rules that have been finally drawn up, which we gave shape to after the meeting of the subcommittee and the committee, ensure that they are tight. This is because it is about compensation. Accidents can be different. Therefore, the date of entry into force of those provisions, which is sufficiently long, still allows for analysis. But even after their entry into force, careful monitoring will be needed, looking at this regulation, as the rules should not be [[♪ The bell ♪]] a source of negative consequences for God of the spirit of the guilty road users. I'm declaring we'll be looking into it. Once again, I would like to inform you that the club will support these solutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u267	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u268	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed changes are, of course, a step in the right direction. Therefore, Kukiz15 will of course support them. And since everything's obvious, that's all I'm saying. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u269	Thank you very much. Now Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club. Are you an MP? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u270	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws following the presentation of the report of the commission, prints 1543 and 1895. High Izbo! This draft law was the subject of work by the Infrastructure Committee. Let me just remind you that the regulations introduced concern the professional registration of vehicles. This is a new form of registration. To put it mildly, it is possible to temporarily use many vehicles on the basis of a single registration document. These proposals will simplify the activities of entities that distribute, produce or research, enabling professional registrations to be used for testing vehicles in the framework of their activities. This change is, I'd say, complex. The draft provides for a revision of the Road Traffic Law and other laws to ensure the smooth operation of the whole system. It is worth noting here, by translating this into a practical language and a language of benefit for the citizen, that this solution will favour a quite large group of entrepreneurs. It is estimated that there are around 20,000 in Poland. entrepreneurs, there are around 11 eligible entities, and it is this group that will be able to benefit from the proposed rules, which, as I said, involve some facilitations. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, this project we are considering is the same as that project that was submitted by the Government of the High House. During the meetings of both committees and subcommittees, a number of amendments were introduced, both legislative, legal, order and substantive. As far as these substantive issues are concerned, here we have been dealing with adding the date and time of start and end of use of vehicles with professional proof and eliminating the danger of a fine being imposed for the fact that only three-time detention will be sent, but in fact this will not be the three-time retention of the registration document. And these are, of course, clarification amendments, so they have gained our recognition. However, we share this doubt, which emerged both during the work of the committee and here, in the speeches of my predecessors. This project provides for the possibility of registration of vehicles in the professional registration mode, but on the so-called. a notebook, and this will be possible until it is possible to register in an IT system that supports the central vehicle register. And that's, of course, I'd say so... The question arises as to whether it is sufficiently secured to prevent infringements from occurring in many aspects, both in terms of unauthorised use, but also in those events which we would all prefer not to experience, and unfortunately they are occurring, i.e. accidents, collisions, etc., etc. These are the elements which, in our view, still require a certain analysis, a certain dialogue. Perhaps this aspect should be examined at the legislative stage of the Senate. I'm sure it needs to be monitored because it's a tiny one, but still, a breach throughout the system. On the other hand, this system works quite well. It seems that this whole system has been deprived of this kind of breach, it is quite tight, and it would be worth not to lead to some kind of bad practice related to the fragmentation of the vehicle registration system, and thus to negative consequences for the whole society, for the economy, for the system. To the end, I would like to say that the solutions adopted in the bill clearly meet the expectations of this part of entrepreneurs, who, as I mentioned at the outset, are engaged in professional vehicle marketing or vehicle testing. And it is important that, as widely as possible, these sectoral facilitations should also be introduced. In practice, this involves reducing administrative burdens and thus promotes more efficient management, i.e. improving financial results, reducing burdens. These are of course good news for all entrepreneurs. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! In view of my position, I am informing you, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the Modern Posel Club will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u271	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski will now speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u272	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Today we are proceeding on the government bill amending the Road Traffic Law Act in print No. 1543 and the report of the committee in print No. 1895. The Polish People's Party will vote in favour of this project. We believe, and here I will not make a discovery, as my previous speakers have said, that the work on this project has been going on for quite a long time, there has been consultation, there have been meetings of committees and subcommittees, a number of comments and amendments have been tabled, which have been discussed, and so I believe that, if possible, it has been adopted, so that the final wording of this legislation is fully satisfactory, meets expectations and meets at the same time a significant number of stakeholders who will be able to benefit from it. The project discusses in its content the main assumptions, indicates the administrative authorities, or the governor, who will be here the link from which the issue of registration evidence will begin, makes it easier to issue certain issues. I think that future buyers will also be pleased, because it will be possible to perform, as we say, a test drive by a future buyer, not only by persons employed by entities that distribute or test vehicles. I would just like to draw your attention and at the same time ask the Minister to ensure administratively that these assumptions and expectations are met in two moments and stages: keeping records - until the introduction of electronic records and the transmission of information to the CEPiK, as well as the moment when Mr Grabarczyk pointed out, as regards insurance and the provision of full legal guarantees, as far as all these events may not have occurred, but which, as we know, can happen in life. In addition, we believe that the document is a good and negotiated, created by a joint effort. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u273	Thank you very much. Mr Ireneusz Gains from the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle will be the last to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u274	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws. The amendment of the Road Traffic Law introduces a new form of temporary registration of vehicles. It will enable operators involved in the distribution, production and testing of vehicles to carry out tests without having to register any tested vehicle at the office. The regulations included in the project will simplify the activities of companies in the automotive industry, relieving them from many administrative obligations, while ensuring that vehicles can be used legally in road traffic. Today, an automotive dealership, a commission, but also an institution that tests cars must register each such vehicle before leaving for public roads. It generates a lot of costs and takes a lot of time. Therefore, for a long time the automotive industry has been calling for the introduction of the so-called. professional license plates. The proposed solutions address these problems. According to the draft law, a document stating the entry into service of a vehicle, moped, agricultural tractor or trailer will be a professional registration document with professional registration plates for the purpose of carrying out the test drive. Professional registration document and professional registration plates will be able to use entrepreneurs with their registered office or branch in Poland involved in the production, distribution or testing of vehicles, as well as authorized entities, e.g. Auto Transport Institute or manufacturer's research units. It was assumed that the right-holders, especially those involved in distribution, would be able to use the possibility of professional registration of vehicles not only for new vehicles but also used, including previously registered vehicles or imported from abroad. The professional registration will confirm the right to carry out road tests, which is extremely important, the vehicle subject to professional registration will be able to be operated not only by the authorized entity or its employee, but also by the customer or the hired driver. The current provisions provide that test driving can be carried out in practice only by the holder and the potential buyer is an accompanying person. According to the project, the body carrying out this professional registration will be an old-timer. The decision to issue evidence after the entity has lodged an authorised administrative fee will issue an old-timer, issuing the blanks and registration plates. Such registration will be valid for a year. This will also provide a source of income for the district government, because if the entrepreneur does not return used and unused blanks of professional registration and license plates, he will be obliged to pay a penalty of up to 3,000. zł, while for not keeping a list of vehicles in use, a penalty of up to 5 000 will be liable. zł. Punishment will be imposed by the governor, and the revenue will go to the county budget. The new rules will also allow the collection of relevant data in the central vehicle register and allow for effective verification of the professional registration of vehicles by road control authorities. The holder is to keep a list of vehicles used by him in road traffic. The list will be carried out in an electronic system which cooperates with central vehicle registers in this respect. The Ministry of Digitalization is to make available to authorised entities a free web application by which they will enter data on vehicles used under professional registration into the central vehicle register and thus keep a list at central level. It's a very good change. It will also facilitate checks on the use of vehicles which may come from different sources, not necessarily operating legally. So here we also have some control over the use of vehicles that are traded. The proposed changes to the legislation provide companies involved in the trade and testing of vehicles with ease of operation by not having to register them in standard mode. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a very good and long-awaited bill, especially by entrepreneurs from the automotive industry. The Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle will support this bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u275	Thank you very much. Two Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the modern club, is the first to ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u276	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As for the fact that this project is good and expected by the entire automotive sector, there is no doubt. This brings us closer to solutions that operate in other countries and have worked very well. The only flaw in this law is that the influence of local governments will be reduced. The question is: Was there an analysis, if the influence of local governments is reduced, if the number of vehicle registrations is actually reduced? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u277	The question is asked by Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The fact that we are introducing a professional registration will be a significant facilitation in the marketing of vehicles, including vehicles with so-called. The other hand. It is important that, especially when buying a car in a comedy, you can check it out - not buy a cat in a bag, just have a test drive. Question. How can we ensure that these vehicles have important technical tests? Second question. How much does the Ministry estimate the average daily number of vehicles to be in this mode [[♪ The bell ♪]] were they moving on Polish roads with professional registration plates? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u279	Thank you very much. Would the Minister like to speak? Please, undersecretary of state in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, Minister Marek Chodkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u280	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A lot has been said about the bill. First of all, I would like to thank you for the work carried out so far in the Committee on Infrastructure and in the extraordinary subcommittee set up to consider this project and thank you for your commitment to this project to producers' representatives, vehicle distributors, manufacturers of license plates and documents, research units, insurers' and local authorities' environments. I would like to answer the question of Minister Grabarczyk immediately. We estimate that the law will apply to around 20,000. entrepreneurs. We suspect that not one registration number and not one proof, but let's say, if it's three or four, it could be a scale of about 100,000, confirms it for the companies that will be interested in it. Is the project administratively tight? We believe that in order for the system to start, during a transitional period the authorised entities will keep a list of vehicles in electronic or paper form and that the oldest and insurance companies will be entitled to check that list. Such lists operate in similar forms of registration for testing in other Member States of the European Union, i.e. as if we were going through a rough road. On the other hand, was there an analysis on the reduction of local income? This analysis has been carried out, it has not shown a tendency to reduce budgetary revenue. As regards infringements of road traffic regulations, information on the licensed entity, professional registration plates and professional registration documents will be collected in the central vehicle register on the date of entry into force of the Act. Events recorded by automatic devices shall be addressed to the holder of the vehicle with a given registration number, in which case it shall be the authorised entity who shall then be required to indicate the driver in such a situation. On the other hand, as regards the problem of civil liability insurance, several meetings were held at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction with the Insurance Guarantee Fund, the Polish Insurance Chamber and the Ministry of Finance and the project with these entities. According to the Ministry, the whole of the rules and the system solutions proposed therein for the professional registration of vehicles will ensure adequate control of the fulfilment of the liability insurance obligations, both by road control authorities, vehicle registration authorities and insurance companies. The police and other road traffic control authorities will of course fulfil an important role in verifying the fulfilment of the insurance obligation of test vehicles under the Act on compulsory insurance. Given that professional registration plates will differ from those currently used, these authorities may apply an increased frequency of checks on test vehicles. We think it's gonna be so much easier. The Starosta, on the other hand, should exercise the authority to carry out the checks referred to in the Compulsory Insurance Act in all other possible situations related to the procedure for professional registration of a vehicle, e.g. when returning used blanks or when requesting a list of vehicles used using professional registration documents, and in our view this does not require separate regulations. In addition, it seems that the Starosta has the right to notify if he notes that the person concerned does not have liability insurance, a guarantee fund. So much for the explanation. I think the subject's been exhausted. Once again, thank you very much on behalf of the Ministry. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u281	Thank you very much. Are you the draftsman of the committee... Mr Rafał Weber, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u282	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Let me conclude by thanking all the Members of the Committee on Infrastructure who have taken an active part in the work on this project. As you have heard in the club speeches, there is a continuation of full agreement in terms of the records proposed by the Ministry of Infrastructure, and very well, because this project is actually a little easier for entrepreneurs in the car industry. If I can afford to answer one of the questions, the question of harm to local governments, it is sometimes difficult, dear state, to combine the liquidation of some fee, i.e. the benefits of not paying any fee to the entrepreneur, with the lack of income or influence of local authorities. You can have a cookie or you can eat that cookie. I think that in this case, the main purpose of this project is to facilitate the registration of these cars. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk set a very good example here, showing time savings after the introduction of these laws. Thanking Members, I would also like to thank Minister Chodkiewicz, who took over this bill during the first committee and subcommittee meetings. Minister Szmit was responsible for this project, and later Minister Chodkiewicz continued this task. Cooperation on the committee line - the Minister was doing very well. The results and results are now in the form of this committee report. Once again, the Commission recommends the High House to adopt this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u283	Thank you. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Civil Records Act (Prints No 1815 and 1902). I ask Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u284	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, I have the honour to present the position of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on Civil Register together with draft implementing acts, print No 1815 of the Polish Parliament of the 8th term of office. The proposed law amends the Act of 24 September 2010 on population records. The main objective of the proposed amendment to the Civil Records Act is to repeal the provisions which abolished the reporting obligation. The decision to abolish the reporting obligation was taken in 2008. This was reflected in the 2010 Act. The amendment introduced had a long vacathio legis, therefore the essential changes concerning registration of the address of the population were introduced by the Law of 7 December 2012 in the Act amending the Act on the Register of Population and Personal Evidence. This law entered into force on 1 January 2013. The Act introduced on 1 January 2013 liberalised the reporting obligation and introduced a very extensive catalogue of amendments to the Act. However, these changes have not developed a solution to the compulsory registration of the place of residence. It was therefore necessary to start work adapting the implementation of statutory amendments. The introduction of the Act also involved the cessation of the collection of reporting data in one central register of PESEL established in the 1980s. The data for this system were and continue to be obtained by municipalities authorities mainly from persons fulfilling the reporting obligation. The introduction of the reporting changes and the need to coordinate the work of the Ministry on the implementation of the changes resulted in the appointment by the President of the Council of Ministers on 13 June 2014 under the chairmanship of the Minister for the Interior of the Interministerial Board of Reporters composed of representatives of the National Office of Elections, the Chief Data Protection Officer, the Office for Foreigners, Municipalities and other institutions. As a result of the team's work, it was concluded that for the proper execution of constitutional and statutory tasks and duties... [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal! I am very sorry, but I am very disturbed by Mr Grabarczyk. As a result of the team's work, it was concluded that the collection of data on the place of residence in one reference PESEL register is essential for the proper execution of constitutional and statutory tasks and public administration duties vis-à-vis citizens. This also has positive and beneficial effects for citizens themselves, including: in the implementation of electoral law or in the smooth execution of social security tasks. Information on the number and structure of residents living in a given administrative unit is necessary for local authorities that can carry out the statutory tasks in the field of care, education, social assistance or disaster relief. Also drawing up electoral registers, calculation e.g. the number of aldermen, conducting referendums requires information about the number and structure of residents of the commune, district or voivodship. The data on residents are also the basis for calculating subsidies, grants and determining the amount of capital funds. The administration has a duty to deal with a lot of citizens' matters because of their local jurisdiction, as evidenced by the place where the citizen is checked in. Information about the person's whereabouts is also needed in case of events of chance, events related to crisis management, medical rescue, sanitary protection or other circumstances of chance. Registration records are also important in matters of internal security for citizens of the State. The security aspect of citizens has become the subject of a public debate in the European Union in recent years. It is particularly important in the intensified fight against terrorist threats. The reporting obligation exists in the vast majority of EU countries. The contested law introduces a simplified reporting obligation, as well as ordering and clarifying certain issues relating to it. The Act introduces the obligation to check-in and check-out, to apply for a trip abroad and to return from abroad in accordance with the provisions of the Act. The reporting obligation may be carried out by electronic means. The provisions of the Act allow the possibility to register in the form of an electronic document. This form will significantly facilitate the fulfilment of this obligation. This solution is in line with the current principle that every citizen should be able to handle by electronic means any matter in contact with the administration concerned. Check-in by electronic means is also possible via a proxy. The Act sets out in detail what rules and in what form the check-in can be made. The Act is accompanied by implementing acts and model forms for registrations as clearly as possible describing the procedure for check-in and check-out at the place of stay. The Act also introduces changes to the registration system for foreigners. According to the project, on the basis of an in-depth analysis of existing alien registers, changes are made to remove existing alien residence registers and collect data in the central register of PESEL. This involves giving foreigners PESEL numbers and collecting data in this system. The PESEL number will not be given to foreigners whose stay in Poland is short-term or only transit. The PESEL number will be transmitted in case of a stay longer than 3 months. To date, data collected about foreigners will not be lost, but archived in accordance with the principle. The project clarifies the procedure for the implementation of the reporting obligation by citizens of the European Union. It is a novelty to introduce the possibility of obtaining a PESEL number at the same time when applying for an identity card for people residing in Poland, which significantly simplifies and accelerates the procedure for obtaining an identity card. It appears from the materials provided to the Sejm that the draft law was consulted with all the institutions and organisations concerned. The results of the consultation and the conclusions of these consultations are attached to Parliament's printing No 1815, so that Members can learn the content of the consultation and the positions taken by the various parties. The position of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs expressed in the discussion and in the vote was almost unambiguously positive. In the vote, only one of the members of the committee abstained from voting, the other members were in favour of the bill. The deadline for the entry into force of the Act is 1 January 2018. This deadline, taking into account the completeness of the Act and the completeness of the draft implementing acts which did not raise objections to the members of the Board of Administration and Home Affairs, the committee considered it realistic and did not raise objections, as no objections were raised as to the content of the Act and the solutions proposed therein, and no comments were made on the content of the implementing acts. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, after discussion and after evaluation of the draft law, together with the accompanying implementing acts, recommends that the High House adopt a law without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u285	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I think the Member has already said everything.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u286	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour on behalf of the club Law and Justice to present the position of the club on the bill amending the law on population records. The club, which I would like to point out at the beginning, will vote in accordance with the recommendation of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs - in favour of adopting the draft law without amendment. At the same time, on behalf of the club, I would like to stress the great importance of this law to improve the quality of government in the country. Reportable information, and therefore related demographic information, is today one of the most important reasons for the relevance of social and economic decisions taken by public authorities, both by the government and by local governments at all levels. Demographic information gives objective reasons e.g. an appropriate placement of investments in infrastructure for social and economic tasks. The changes made are of great importance to public statistics, and especially to the study of demographic processes and phenomena which are currently the basis for all serious social and economic analyses, as well as the proposed changes in the country, and good, reliable public statistics is, after all, the basis for good governance. The registration records will allow for systematic observation and statistical surveys of the processes of natural movement, and in particular of the wandering movement, i.e. migration of the population. Observations of the migration processes of the population with simultaneous analyses of the structure and size of migration are an important prerequisite and basic data for assessing important social and economic processes. They will be important indications as regards the design of changes in living conditions and the development of individual administrative units. Observation of migration processes will assess their impact and contribute to making better decisions on many infrastructure and economic projects. Poland has been an emigration country for many years, and so far there is no efficient system for registering population flows. In demographic forecasts on migration, we use an estimation of the size of processes or foreign registers, which do not always give us the information we want in population analysis. Having their own registers will not only improve analytical processes and research on this important issue, but will also significantly increase their cognitive value and relevance and usefulness. We will therefore vote in favour of the adoption and implementation of this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u287	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Wójcik, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u288	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is worth recalling that the reporting obligation was introduced by the Act of 14 July 1961 on the registration and control of the movement of the population. And it was a law, which, from our perspective, was indeed a very restrictive law imposing numerous obligations on citizens. For 50 years, practically reporting was not subject to any changes. Let me remind you that in order to fulfil the reporting obligation, it was necessary for example. present the current military book, provide various types of data, the reporting obligation had to be respected within 4 days and the failure to report was punishable by criminal sanctions. The fulfilment of this obligation has been linked to numerous restrictions and difficulties for the population. In 2008 it was decided to abolish the reporting obligation with full awareness that it would be necessary to develop a formula for powering public registers so that the state administration and local government administration could simply function normally, also for the purposes of public statistics, which Prof. Hrynkiewicz spoke a lot about. Surely such registration of the place of residence would be necessary. In 2010, the Act was able to abolish the reporting obligation, while creating a very long period of vacathio legis, in which time solutions were to be developed so that all those objectives related to the functioning of the administration and the objectives of public statistics, the holding of elections, etc. could be achieved. During this work a number of analyses have been carried out and studies have also been carried out on how to simplify these procedures related to compliance with the reporting obligation so that they are not actually as burdensome for the population as those which were properly introduced. 50 years earlier. And the Law of 7 December 2012 managed to eliminate most of these nuisances for residents. I would like to remind you that this was a law which introduced the abolition of the registration obligation for holidaymakers and tourists, introduced the possibility of the registration obligation by the proxy, introduced the possibility of simultaneous check-out at check-in in a new place, created a completely different, more realistic, 30-day deadline for fulfilling the registration obligation. As I mentioned, the previous deadline was four days. Criminal sanctions were lifted for failure to comply with the reporting obligation, and the obligation to submit various types of documents, such as the military book, or to provide various data, were waived when the reporting obligation was fulfilled. It can be said that from the entry into force of the Act, i.e. from 1 January 2013, to the old reporting obligation, the one that was created in the 1960s, there was actually no trace. It can be said that all these nuisances for citizens were simply abolished by the 2012 Act, and after the former reporting obligation of the 1960s it was actually only the name - a name that was not changed. In addition, you are going in a very similar way in the government project because you are introducing further facilitations for the population in relation to the fulfilment of the reporting obligation. This is, for example. Check-in by electronic means. I think it's a step in the right direction. Indeed, technological development has led to the possibility of thinking also about electronic compliance with the reporting obligation. This is a very good change. We therefore believe that today's reporting obligation is indeed not burdensome for citizens. We also believe that in this situation, in order not to make further changes, not to create a situation in which a new system for registering citizens' residence would still have to be created in the future, the solutions proposed by the Act are rational. That is why we are in favour of passing the bill for further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u289	Thank you very much. Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz Club15, will now speak. There's no envoy. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u290	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the club Moderna vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the law on population records, prints no. 1815 and 1902. In 2008, the reporting obligation was abolished by the Long Vacatio legis Act. However, some provisions did not come into force. In 2012, the amendment of the Act on Public Records and Personal Evidence introduced amenities for reporting, but the abolition of the reporting obligation was not cancelled. On the other hand, an inter-ministerial panel was set up in 2014. At the moment, the legislator wishes to withdraw the decision to waive the reporting obligation, but further reporting facilities and the possibility to do so in electronic form are introduced. It seems that such a course of action is most appropriate, because the fact that provisions have not been fully introduced, which have deleted the reporting obligation, shows that many problems have been encountered with the situation in which this obligation will not be. Here the case of electoral letters has been referred to many times, which, in fact, would be difficult to draw up in the absence of a reporting obligation. There are also some legal provisions that make it dependent on how many inhabitants there are in a given region to give certain powers to local authorities. If we do not have the opportunity to verify how many inhabitants live in an area, we cannot say that these rules should apply. These facilitations, which you are introducing as a government presentation, are as coherent, logical as possible and make life easier for citizens. If we have such progress in civilization, we should be guided by the need to do as much as possible in electronic form, so as to limit the obligation of the parties to be present in offices. As regards the benefits, it would be worth noting that the actual abolition of the reporting obligation would require the obligation to apply to other registers. In this arrangement, these registers will not be necessary. Another example - in cities there are free parking zones for residents. At a time when we don't have a record of who lives there, it's hard to decide whether one of the residents should be parked free of charge here or not. Therefore, as you can see, life has shown that such a clear decision to delete the reporting obligation has encountered so many obstacles that it seems that the decision to restore is as correct as possible, and I can declare on behalf of the Modern Club that the Modern Club will support the solutions contained in the government submission. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u291	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, the club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u292	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! The reporting obligation was introduced in Poland in 1928. After World War II, the obligation to register the place of residence was included in the Act of 14 July 1961, and another regulation in the field of reporting was reflected in the Act of 10 April 1974 on population records and personal evidence. In response to citizens' expectations regarding freedom of movement, the legislator abolished the reporting obligation in 2008. The current geopolitical situation, however, calls for reflection, given the broad sense of security. In deciding to restore the reporting obligation, it is proposed to Polish citizens to introduce further simplifications in the performance of the reporting obligation. Today's regulation will make it possible to carry out all activities relating to the obligation to report electronically, which should be very easy for citizens, but also for the staff of the office. The amendments introduced by these regulations aim to introduce the principle of giving the number PESEL to foreigners who register for permanent or temporary stay in the territory of the Republic of Poland, and thus to remove the registers of residence of foreigners. These registers were necessary when the numbers of PESEL were not given to foreigners. The collection of data on the place of residence of citizens in a single reference PESEL register results in many benefits for themselves, for example. the possibility of voting in elections without the need to apply for inclusion in electoral lists, the efficient service of citizens in the field of social security, i.e. pensions, pensions, social welfare or social security matters. It should be mentioned that knowledge of the number and structure of the population and data resulting from only one reference register will allow local authorities to take more effective and effective action in this area. At this point, it is appropriate to mention that knowledge of the number of inhabitants has an impact on the calculation of the number of councillors and is also important in the context of the local referendum. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Rapid and effective access to the PESEL reference register is essential in matters of fundamental state defence, as well as in the search for persons for trial and missing persons. It should also be mentioned that knowledge of the whereabouts of a person is essential in the course of crisis management activities or emergency services. It should be fully accepted that the absence of an address in the PESEL register may cause difficulties in establishing and reaching persons whose life and health are at risk because of the suspicion that they are present in the disaster area. Similarly, the European Union's acquis, which is regulated in the fight against terrorism, cannot be effectively implemented in the case of very loose or inoperative regulations in the individual Member States of the European Union concerning the reporting obligation of citizens residing in the territory concerned. Faced with these facilitations and, at the same time, taking into account the reasons envisaged for the benefits for citizens, as well as the importance of security issues, it is appropriate to agree that this regulation will satisfy citizens' expectations and bring the state's rights together. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party raises no objections to the detailed solutions contained in the draft law and will vote in favour of the committee's report. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u293	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan has provided her written statement. Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u294	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present to you the position of the Kukiz Club15 regarding the government draft law amending the Act on population records. We see, of course, the problems that arise in this area, and we would be willing to agree that the changes that are proposed in part of this project are necessary. On the other hand, we have a huge problem agreeing to return to our reporting obligation. This is an element with which we disagreed from the beginning, and we hoped that certain promises made to the citizens by the previous government would be fulfilled. This project introduces a number of changes to the population record, which in part actually cleans up the system, improves it, gives it a chance to react more quickly, provide some elements of increased security in the time in which we came to work. Here you can list solutions such as the PESEL number given to all foreigners who check in in Poland for a permanent or temporary stay, and consequently the removal of alien residence registers. This definitely leads to the creation of a single database and the non-distraction of this information. Such an element is certainly to give citizens of the European Union and their family members a PESEL number when checking in for more than 3 months, reducing the formalities accompanying the check-in of these people - so far they have been quite complex. It is important that PESEL will not be broadcast at the check-in of foreigners if their stay in Poland is short-term or transit, not exceeding 30 days. It is also important to simplify the rules for broadcasting PESEL numbers to Polish citizens, etc., also to Poles abroad. But really, ladies and gentlemen, the above mentioned changes and amenities are just additional elements, because, as the designer himself points out, the most important aim of this project is to maintain the reporting obligation. Let me just remind you that the duty to report was to be lifted by the government of Donald Tusk. [[And this is Donald Tusk?]] It was to be abolished on 1 January 2016, but in 2015 President Andrzej Duda signed an amendment extending this deadline to 1 January 2018. Citizens had in some sense been promised this. In fact, Minister, the citizens were counting on it. If you'd asked people, you'd know that they really appreciated the possibility that there wouldn't be a reporting obligation, but once again, at some point, politicians don't want to keep their commitments. There is no continuation of the policy as regards the promises that have been made to citizens, even though, in my opinion, the fulfilment of all the conditions that I mentioned earlier does not really require that this reporting obligation be maintained until the end. This is a little sacrifice, making a promise to the citizens on the altar next step towards the expansion of bureaucracy, the omnipotent state we wanted to leave. Of course, some simplifications are to be introduced in the implementation of the reporting obligation. The reporting obligation will be able to be completed electronically, especially when it comes to people registered in the ePUAP system, possibly having an electronic signature. In addition, this will be done using one registration form. Then you can check-in for a temporary stay with simultaneous check-out from a permanent stay and check-in for a permanent stay with simultaneous check-out from a temporary stay. It's supposed to be some compensation for people. But we treat it a little differently. It's a little bit like someone told us, we'll put you in a cage, but we'll give you food, we'll protect you. The Minister has already told us once that the State will protect us, we do not need to protect ourselves. We'll get a mattress to lie down, but we'll actually be restricted to freedom, freedom of movement. On our part, there's no consent. In principle, the developer justifies the collection of data on the place of residence by the fact that this is essential from a security point of view, in particular in the context of the current geopolitical situation in Europe. As usual, once again, the state is trying to limit something to us, saying that it is for our own good, but that every time our good is not realized and we feel no safer, neither easier nor better. In addition, the designer refers to a number of European countries in which such reporting obligations operate. But let me remind you that not so long ago, when I said that in most, actually, in almost all countries of the European Union, there are certain rights concerning the possession of weapons, it was not so good in Europe at that time. Poland was supposed to be the only country in which it does not have to be the same as in Europe. At the same time, he did not mention that e.g. in France, the Czech Republic, Ireland, Greece or Portugal, such reporting obligations do not exist. In this situation, our club will leave the decision to each of its Members in the vote on this project, albeit the bureau will be [[♪ The bell ♪]] recommended voting against. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u295	Five Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of people who have been asked questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. The first question was joined by Mr Jan Kilian, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u296	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This draft law is of course very much needed, expected. This has been presented very widely by the rapporteur. I would just like to share some doubts about a problem that has recently arisen, namely that many people in a very difficult situation of life are looking for this report in gardens. There is a problem with the possibility of using gazebos as a place of residence. These people are threatened with eviction due to misuse of gazebos. Is this problem being seen? Is there going to be a solution? Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u297	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u298	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I must absolutely agree with Mr Jozwiak. Indeed, the PiS would like to lock us in such cages and let us eat, drink a little, and if we were singing the wrong song, he would also threaten us. But there is a problem, because if we wanted to visit our friends in this cage, it would be good to know where this cage is, so the address will make it easier for us. But more serious. Minister, this bill restores reporting. Question: "Do you also provide for the restoration of such an obligation that personal evidence will give a permanent residence because it is not present at the moment?" Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u299	Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u300	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As I said in my club speech, we are very well aware of the possibility of electronic check-in. In the explanatory memorandum, the State describes in detail how documents confirming the legal title will be attached to the premises, i.e. either by adding documents in electronic form or by adding a digital mapping of that document. I'm sure that's a very good solution. However, I would like to ask: How will the identity of the applicant be confirmed in practice by electronic means? Will it be necessary to confirm this with a trusted or qualified electronic signature, or do you foresee a different path, because today there are several possibilities for confirmation in the administration? I would therefore like to ask whether this possibility will only be available to people with a trusted or qualified e-signatures profile. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u301	Thank you. Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u302	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I wanted to ask the Minister if the records were prepared to make an electronic check-in. If the Act enters into force on 1 January, will I actually be able to register on 1 or 2 January, register electronically? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u303	Thank you very much. The last question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u304	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you three questions about the possibility of an electronic check-in. Firstly, how will non-compliances be explained? Such non-compliances will certainly occur, in every case of electronic communication such cases occur. Is there a procedure for clarifying non-compliance? Do you foresee any specific solutions in this regard? Secondly, what will be the possibility of electronic registration: will it be a form or will it be in the form of a letter, or will it be directly connected to the system? Or will it be in the form of a letter and only from this letter will the official have to rewrite, enter the data into the system? I'm also interested in the issue of authentication. Will it be necessary to have an electronic signature or qualified signature? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you foresee a different possibility? There is, for example, a tax issue. the possibility to enter the previous annual settlement. Are these the formulas you're predicting? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u305	Thank you, sir. Mr Jarosław Zieliński is the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u306	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! First, let me make a few more general statements before I go to the answers to the questions that have been formulated. First, may I say that this is a moment of great civic, state, parliamentary satisfaction for me, as well as a moment of personal satisfaction in which all clubs, except maybe one, Kukiz,15, agree to maintain the reporting obligation. Law and Justice from the beginning, since the government of PO-PSL announced and then abolished - with a temporary extension - the reporting obligation was against it. I, on behalf of my club - Law and Justice, have spoken on several occasions on this subject and from the speaker, and at the meetings of the Parliamentary Committees, and in other public places, in the media, arguing that this is a mistake, that is a misconception. Unfortunately, the Platform and the PSL went this way, translated the deadlines for abolishing this obligation, but their intention to abolish the reporting obligation was sustained with completely irrational stubbornness, with stubbornness worthy of a better cause. I was wondering today before I came to the Sejm to represent the government when it comes to this bill, how PO and PSL will explain the change in their position. And here we have heard that the Civic Platform has decided that this obligation has been civilized by other changes so that it can actually be maintained. This is a complete lack of logic, because if so, it had to be civilized and maintained, but while the PO-PSL coalition was in power, the spectrum of the abolition of the reporting obligation existed and was maintained by this coalition. The intention of abolition was sustained. It is good that you have lost the election and that the Law and Justice have a majority in the Seym, and as it turns out, they have new allies, including you who previously wanted something else, namely the abolition of the reporting obligation, and we can dismiss this ghost and correct the matter rationally. [[Corrigendum.]] PSL claims that this is why the reporting obligation needs to be maintained today, that new security arguments, new threats, such as terrorism, have emerged. These threats have always been, maybe they are more intense today, it is true, but these phenomena existed, and other arguments which were referred to in the discussion at the time, in the public debate, in the parliament, did not reach you. But I note as a positive change of attitude, a change of approach, because it is always good when we have progress, when the influence of one on another is going in a positive direction. And that is where our influence, the influence of our law and justice, the arguments on your position have had a good effect. I'm so glad you understood that. And thank you for voting for this government project. As regards the statement by the Member representing the Kukiz club15, I reply that these were not our promises, Mr President. Those were the promises of the PO-PSL, so don't blame the Government of Law and Justice for not fulfilling them and not burdening us with that. Those were irrational, unwise, unwise promises, but they weren't ours either. We have consistently been in favour of maintaining the reporting obligation from the beginning, and, of course, also for civilising it, in order to introduce the possible facilitations at a given stage. And now these facilitations are introduced in our bill, even if this is an important facilitation to allow you to check in and check out electronically. So that's an explanation. And once again, I would like to stress that it is good that today there is such a tone of discussion that our rational arguments have prevailed and have also reached those who, in a completely incomprehensible way to me, have maintained their intention to abolish the reporting obligation for many years, by themselves shifting twice the time of entry into force of the elimination of that obligation. You knew for yourself that this would create, generate all sorts of problems in various spheres of social life, public life. As regards the questions which have been addressed to the Government, I would like to answer them as follows to Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz of Modern. No, we don't anticipate that, there's no work to restore the address to personal evidence. And this is not necessary, because today the form of ID card allows you to check your registration address electronically by accessing the PESEL register. With regard to the question of Mr John Kilian from Law and Justice to check in on the parcels, it is a problem of this type that it is difficult to report someone in a place that does not have an address. That's not possible. Mr Marek Wójcik of the Civic Platform asked about the verification of the applications submitted, how, how and who would be able to submit such a request. Of course, those who have an e-PUAP profile or an electronic signature. There's no other option today. Maybe one day some other possibility will be invented. But I think it's quite enough that it's really enough that these people will be able to make an electronic application and that this proposal will be effective, effectively accepted and handled. Professor Józef Hrynkiewicz of Law and Justice asked whether registers were technically prepared for electronic registration. Yes, they are prepared and will certainly be ready for the entry into force of the rules. The Ministry of Digitization in the Government is responsible for this. I did not quite have time to write down three questions by Mr Mirosław Suchon from the Modern. You have certainly asked how any non-compliances that occur in electronic communications will be corrected when submitting applications this way. The administration knows the administrative procedures to clarify this. Yeah, but I guess it's gonna take, I guess, at least, at this stage of direct contact with the citizen, because I'm not sure if there's anything that can be done by electronic means. E-PUAP form. This will be a request with an appropriate form that can be submitted in accordance with the procedure that I mentioned. And the third question I didn't have time to write down. [[In fact, the Minister has already responded.]] Did I answer? Well, I'm very happy for you. And thank you for these questions. At this stage, this is how I can answer, thanking once again for the great compatibility in the assessment of this government bill. I think that the adoption of this law will calm the situation in a number of areas where the consequences of the abolition of the reporting obligation have been feared and, at the same time, the implementation of this obligation will be facilitated by those solutions which we introduce and which are using modern techniques related to the possibility of electronic contact, and not necessarily directly, with public authorities which fulfil their obligations in this respect. There will be no confusion in the electoral registers, no confusion in tax settlements, no confusion in statistics, statistical surveys, all those pragmatic issues that these surveys are meant to serve. There will be no confusion either, e.g. as regards public administration responsibilities in the field of education, pre-school education, the calculation of subsidies, etc. A whole range of different areas here would be threatened if the original idea of the PO-PSL coalition, from which it fortunately withdrew, remained. And we'd still approve, even without you. That's not gonna happen. [[You have to be insolent to say things like that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u307	Thank you very much. Now the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u308	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to thank the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs very warmly for working on this law, for working in harmony with this law. This law has been properly processed since 2014, so it has been proceded by the previous government, the current government, and in great agreement we have come to the conclusion that the benefits for every citizen... [[The Minister's impudence peak]] ...individually from this law prevails over minor inconveniences. They also outweigh the public benefits of this law over those inconveniences which we can point out here and which one of the Members pointed out. And it is also a law that, in a modern society, in a modern country, gives the possibility to make very extensive use of administrative registers in various studies and analyses. Such research and analysis are particularly important for demographic issues, which I will no longer speak to you about, but I would just like to point out that the loss of reports, the loss of such complete registers, has caused that in demographic forecasting, especially as regards migration, we have to use the registers of other countries. Now that we've restored all those records, we'll be able to use it. I also wanted to thank the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. It was an extremely well-prepared bill, refined in the smallest detail. At the same time, the results of a very broad consultation with the various organisations and institutions were included. Opinions were cited in the case of this law. I think it is very necessary, and thank you very much to all Members once again. And as for those who have not yet been convinced of the great values and benefits of this law - directly and indirectly - for every citizen, I will try to do so in individual discussions so that they can understand how important this law is. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u309	Thank you very much. Member of the European Parliament in the mode of... [[Corrections.]] Corrections? Was the Member mentioned by name? [[Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry...]] Were you mentioned by name? [[I mean, the minister obviously referred to me, clearly indicated that his words were directed to...]] He was. Here you go, one minute to corrigendum. Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u310	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I can only answer that for 50 years, including 20 years of free Poland, no one had the courage to change any reporting procedures, procedures which, as has been known for a long time, are dead. I suspect that, in this state of affairs, we would still be stuck if it were not for the political decision to abolish the reporting obligation, which had just led to the adoption of this law of 7 December 2012. Today I believe that after this reporting obligation in the 1960s, which was designed in the reality of the Polish People's Republic, since the entry into force of this law, the name has actually been created. I am pleased that you are also going this way and are also trying to simplify all these procedures so that citizens are as easy as possible to fulfil these obligations with you. Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Mr. Marshal, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u311	Please, Minister Jarosław Zieliński. The answer to the corrigendum. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u312	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! That's it. That's it. That's it. You have to listen to the voice of the Kukiz club15, because this is the voice that showed the problem, which I also called in the way you heard it. Mr Jóźwik... [[Voice from the room: Józwiak]] Jozwiak, I'm so sorry. ...he said more or less that everything that was done there along the way was okay, but the point is whether it's a reporting obligation or not, and he accused - in his mouth it was a charge - that we're holding it up. In our view, this is of course a great advantage. But it is precisely if, from this point of view, we look at this problem, that none of us, certainly none of us, from Law and Justice, have ever been against it - and we have supported these changes - to civilise, simplify the obligation that existed, but we were convinced that public life must not be chaoticized by abolishing the reporting obligation. The name is not friendly, consent: and duty, and report. There were demands, I know, on the committee to look for some other name, but it's not about language. It's a fact. Registration of citizens' residence is very necessary for various reasons, which have been mentioned quite widely today, and in earlier committees, and in the public debate. So, Mr, together, we have certainly all been in favour of civilising, simplifying, changing these PRLs, outdated solutions, but keeping the essence of things, that is, registering the residence of citizens, which is necessary for many reasons. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u313	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u314	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the government's draft law on amending the Act on Civil Records. There are two issues in the revised draft. First, the government departs from the provisions abolishing from 1 January 2018 so-called. reporting obligation. Over the years, the reporting obligation has ceased to be burdensome for citizens, but at the same time its existence ensures that the fundamental rights and obligations of Polish law are fulfilled. Here there are issues related to electoral rights, the right to court or the protection of citizens in the event of a threat. It is worth noting that the reporting obligation is not restrictive in Poland, unlike many other European countries. The amendment also assumes that it will be possible to check in online, which is a real ease. I am very pleased that the government notes the digitalisation of society and introduces such a major change in the adjustment of people's responsibilities to the modern world. This is actually a very real relief. Another simplification is the introduction of a single form for a person who checks in for a permanent stay and at the same time wants to check out of a temporary stay. The same solution is intended for people who check in for a temporary stay and at the same time want to check out of a permanent stay. The second group of changes is linked to the registers of foreigners. According to the project, the registers of foreigners operating today in municipalities are being wound up. As a result, all foreigners will be given PESEL numbers, and their data instead of e.g. In three registers, they'll only be in one. This solution will allow rapid access to all alien data in one central and easily searched register accessible to authorised services and administrations. This protection allows better security for Polish citizens. The draft law has generated positive reactions to all policy options among Members. That's her best recommendation. During the committee work, it was stressed that the bill was well prepared and contains all the elements needed to implement it, e.g. templates for forms. It should also be stressed that it has been properly consulted with operators. The bill is undoubtedly based on the unchanged name of the reporting obligation, which brings us to the times of the deep Polish People's Republic. However, I agree with the designers that a change of name would result in too much burden on the state budget. Changing this bill is a step in the right direction. Circle of Free and Solidarni asks for further proceedings of the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u315	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report of the Health Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the Protection of Mental Health and some other laws (Prints No 1847 and 1921). I ask Mr Tomasz Latos to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u316	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Health Committee, I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the government draft law amending the Mental Health Act and some other laws, prints No 1847 and 1921. I would like to stress that, with this purely substantive amendment, there were no votes against in the committee, and in agreement and consensus, we have followed this law, which is, moreover, due to certain obligations under EU law. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Health, I ask for the adoption of a law which is a certain order of the existing law and, in my opinion and in my opinion, the committee does not cause controversy. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u317	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Catherine Czochar will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u318	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, a position on the amendment of the Law of 19 August 1994 on the Protection of Mental Health, 1847 and 1921. The proposed law amending the Law on the Protection of Mental Health and certain other laws, in its basic scope, is amended by the Act of 19 August 1994 on the Protection of Mental Health and the Act of 26 October 1982 on Education in Sobriety and Against Alcoholism. In addition, it introduces a single amendment to the Law of 29 July 2005 on the Prevention of Drug Addiction and the Act of 9 July 1995 on the Protection of Health against the Consequences of Tobacco and Tobacco Products. The main objective of the proposed revision of the Law of 19 August 1994 on the protection of mental health is to adapt it to the changed legal conditions resulting from decisions of the European Court of Human Rights and the Constitutional Tribunal. The contested law also includes the amendment of certain regulations concerning the application of direct coercion or the financing of health services in the field of psychiatric health care. A very important element of the proposed amendment is also the revision of the regulations concerning the Centre for Mental Health. I would like to stress that changes are being made in the project, which are of a sequencing nature. The project also includes amendments to the provisions of the Law on the coordination of the National Mental Health Programme and the obligation to inform about its implementation, to strengthen the role of the Minister responsible for Health in the implementation of the National Mental Health Programme and to extend and clarify the issues concerning the Centre for Mental Health currently regulated in Article. 5a of the Act, the modification of the statutory authorisations for the issuing of implementing acts - as mentioned above, their purpose is to amend these authorisations, to repeal or transfer the content covered by the implementing act directly to the Act due to the matter they regulate - as well as in terms of terminology. The amendment also proposes a change in the way the municipal committees operate. to solve alcoholic problems which will enable them to function in a manner consistent with the provisions of the Law of 28 August 1997. High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The proposed amendments to this law are expected and justified. Through the provisions in the Act we improve the area of mental health care. Therefore, the Law and Justice Club welcomes this draft law and requests that the law be adopted in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u319	Thank you very much. Ms Beat Małecka-Libera will speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u320	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the opinion of the Civic Platform Club about the draft law from print No. 1847 concerning the care of people with mental health disorders. I would like to say that, in the case of this project, the whole committee supports and also our club, the Civic Platform Club, will support the proposed changes, as they are a continuation of the changes that started several years ago. We know that people with mental illness require a lot of money, but also organizational changes. E.g. the environmental centres that will now be implemented in the form of piloting have been initiated by the introduction of the Public Health Act. Therefore, everything that is being proposed at the moment is a continuation and we, as a Civic Platform Club, support these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u321	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Skutecki will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u322	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In principle, this law is necessary, expected and really a consequence of the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Poland, but also of the European Court of Human Rights. The law is good, because finally it is clear who is responsible for the National Mental Health Programme in Poland. Finally, we have a precise definition of immobilisation, a more precise rules for the application of direct coercion. These are expected and needed changes. As far as the right of an incompetent person to apply for discharge from a psychiatric hospital at any time, and not after 30 days, so far, this is a revolution and this is a revolution that I think is going in the right direction. The precise possibility of appealing within 7 days to the custody court from refusing to discharge from the hospital is again a very good step and it is difficult not to support it. If we read this document carefully and literally, we have a few questions on our lips. Why are we regulating in this law what alcoholic beverages can be served at the stadiums and in the cars of Warsaw? Seems a little far-fetched. Why is it so ambiguous in this law that the rules according to which the Marshal of the voivodship is to indicate psychiatric doctors entitled to assess the validity of direct coercion? It seems that this should be written more precisely, more specifically. Finally, it was something that many environments, people and institutions have been paying attention to. In this act, we abolish the obligation for the Council of Ministers to report to the High Sejm on the implementation of the Law on sobriety and combating alcoholism. These are the records that undermine a little less enthusiasm for this bill. There's probably an explanation for the government, but it seems that these are unnecessary records. In conclusion, the bill is certainly very expected, and it is good that it was put under session by the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u323	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the club, Mr Radosław Lubczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u324	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The amended amendment to the Law on the revision of the Law on the Protection of Mental Health and some other laws is in the opinion of the parliamentary club Modern amendment is correct. It meets the constitutional standards by implementing the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and the Constitutional Tribunal. We believe that monitoring of rooms where people who have been subjected to direct coercion should long ago become a universal standard, as this increases the security of both parties. Modern supports the granting of greater procedural rights and the possibility of obtaining legal assistance from a representative of the public. The rightness of this regulation is indisputable. We also consider it satisfactory to introduce mandatory periodic mental health tests for patients. This will avoid further cases similar to the case of Kędzior against Poland. Furthermore, we believe that it is necessary to clarify the need for clear rules governing the conditions and the way in which persons who are incapacitated are placed in institutions. In conclusion, the Modern Club will vote in favour of the Act amending the Law on the Protection of Mental Health and some other laws in the wording presented. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u325	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Polish People's Party Club, Mr Paweł Bejda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u326	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The main objective of the proposed amendment to the Law of 19 August 1994 on the protection of mental health is to adapt it to the changed legal conditions resulting from the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and the Constitutional Tribunal. In accordance with the amendment to the adoption of a person's social assistance home without his or her consent, and with the consent of his or her statutory representative, a decision by the guardian court to refer him or her to such an establishment will be required. The new rules regulate the obligation to periodically examine the mental health of a person in such a home at least once every six months. The time shown seems to allow a proper assessment of the health status of a person's stay in such a facility. In addition, a person who does not agree to a further stay in a social assistance home will be able to request the abolition of the obligation to stay there. In order to protect the legal person who is directed against his will to a psychiatric hospital or a social assistance centre, a lawyer or counsel shall be required to be appointed by law. A record of the need to monitor the premises of the persons to whom a measure of direct coercion in the form of isolation has been applied has been introduced. Monitoring is designed to increase patient safety and allow for more accurate control of their condition. In addition, the project is clear and orderly. The amendment of the Law of 26 October 1982 on sobriety education and the prevention of alcoholism is linked to the need to introduce changes in the possibility of applying to the court for a change in the type of rehab facility. There will also be a provision for monitoring the premises in which persons with direct isolation coercion measures are held will change the functioning of the municipal alcoholic problem resolution committees. It is proposed to repeal the Article. 20 of this law, which concerns the obligation to submit information on the implementation of this law by the Council of Ministers to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland annually. This obligation is enshrined in the Public Health Act. This will reduce the duplication of information obligations. The judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal requires the amendment of the Act of 29 July 2005 on the Prevention of Drug Addiction and the Act of 9 July 1995 on the Protection of Health against the Consequences of Tobacco and Tobacco Products. They propose applying the same rules as will be introduced in the Law of 26 October 1982 on sobriety and combating alcoholism. The amendment aims to increase the powers of the persons affected by the amended laws, in particular by guaranteeing the protection of procedural rights, as well as the protection of the rights of persons led without their consent to welfare homes and those subject to direct coercion. The implementation of the National Mental Health Programme will be improved by rationalising the reporting obligations imposed on the authorities set out in the Mental Health Act and the Law on Sobriety Education and Against Alcoholism. This will ensure systemic consistency with the Public Health Act. The amendments will make it possible to transfer the provisions of certain implementing acts to the law and to increase the legal certainty of persons whose obligations were derived from the provisions of a lower rank, such as regulations, by eliminating existing legal doubts. The Polish People's Party will support the above-mentioned law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u327	Thank you very much. That was the last club voice. Two Members joined the questions. The first question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club. At the same time, I close the list of questions submitted. I'm setting time for a question for one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u328	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's a good project, and it's a good thing he showed up. It states that the premises in which persons subject to direct coercion are held should be monitored. That's the right thing to do. My question is, haven't these rooms been monitored at all? In what sense will this law improve the present state, and at what time do you think it will be possible to bring about a situation in which all such rooms will be monitored? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Mr Beat Małecka-Libera: Bravo, bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u329	Thank you. The question is asked by Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u330	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about the article. The 25th bill, which, I think, is very disturbing. This article deals with the fact that members of the municipal alcoholic problem resolution committee will have the right not only to collect but also to process the information set out in this Act. This is obvious information: name, date of birth, sex, etc., marital status, but also date of marriage, termination of marriage, education, occupation, type of job, education, degree of incapacity for work, possession of disability, disability, etc. Plenty of sensitive data, so called sensitive data whose processing under Polish law is prohibited at all. I would very much like to know the Minister's answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u331	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Zbigniew Król will now speak to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u332	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, Thank you for those words about the bill, because it is really necessary. This is a bill that we have waited a long time for, as it was pointed out here. It refers not only to the protection of mental health, but also to some other laws that need ordering. The main objective of this law is, of course, to bring regulation into line with the rulings of the European Court of Human Rights and the Constitutional Tribunal, but we are making changes within this project, which are clear and orderly, which has also been discussed here. I have noted some comments on these speeches. First of all, I think that Mr Beid responded to Mr Skutecki's doubts about this presentation. Well, it's not exactly that we want to force ourselves to determine what drinks are sold in such or other wagons, but in accordance with the lower-level acts that are in force at the moment, we just want to supplement this provision legally so that, at the right time, when it comes to legislation, this ratio is reflected. With regard to the information given by the Marshal of the voivodship in the Public Information Bulletin about doctors who have the possibility to confirm the need for direct coercion, this is also a similar situation. Those of you, perhaps there are those in the hall who run hospitals or run hospitals, know very well how difficult it is to consult a psychiatrist in due time to confirm the need for this coercion. These provisions therefore regulate information on specific persons, specific professionals, who will confirm the need for coercion. It will certainly improve, speed up action and, I hope, shorten the period of application of direct coercion. Art. 20, it's already been mentioned. We are abolishing this need to report, because the Public Health Act specifies reporting and it will not, so to speak, differing with regard to what has been so far. However, we also conducted an analysis of how these reports on alcoholism or alcohol problems in Poland are adopted. They are usually taken with delay, once every 3 years, once every 4 years. There were years in which we had no reports at all. In this context, however, it is worth focusing on the Public Health Act and developing a comprehensive report on addiction, which will result in something. Something, I mean. concrete solutions that I hope will improve public health. With regard to monitoring and supervision, this is very different. It depends on the places, the type of rooms, when it comes to such supervision. Monitoring is intended to ensure the safety of both persons subject to direct coercion and personnel. This surveillance, I think, is valuable. This is very different in Poland. On the other hand, as regards the question of the period during which this is to be carried out, there is an adjustment period of 6 months, and the institutions which apply this procedure should therefore do so during that period. Regarding access to sensitive data. At the moment, municipal teams are conducting these studies, for example. referring cases to a court requires the collection of those data which are simply archived as indicated in the Act. We also order this in such a way that it is precisely in the case of sensitive data that a specific provision is needed so that this can be applied. There is no way in the case of these alcoholism prevention teams not to process this data, i.e. to develop it in such a way as to submit it. a specific application for funding for families of alcoholics or other addicts or to bring the case to court. So it's not a rule, either, which, as I'm going to say, is tearing down this sensitive data bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u333	Thank you very much. Does the rapporteur still want to speak? [[One sentence.]] Mr Tomasz Latos. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u334	Just one sentence. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to thank all the clubs, all the Members, in particular the members of the Health Committee, very much for the substantive and balanced discussion on this, as I said earlier, in a non-controversial law. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u335	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u336	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the government proposal for a law amending the Law on the Protection of Mental Health and some other laws. The amendment discussed today includes, among others, adapts the Polish law to the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and the Constitutional Tribunal. The regulations contained in the project cover many aspects of broadly understood mental health. A large part is devoted to security and clarifies the provisions involved. Among other things, it introduces an obligation to set up a lawyer or counsel and mandatory periodic mental health examinations of persons to the extent that they are justified by their stay in a social assistance home. It is a solution that increases safety and protects people who are not self-conscious and so obvious that it is surprising that they are only being introduced now. In addition, the new rules prevent a person from being sent to a social security home without his consent or an appropriate custody court ruling. The person concerned, his family or the head of the establishment where he or she is or is referred to, may request a change in the decision of acceptance or the removal of the obligation to stay in the DPS and medicinal entities after the new rules have been established. In view of the cases cited in the explanatory memorandum of the European Court of Human Rights and the Constitutional Tribunal, I consider it appropriate and necessary to introduce the proposed solutions. These changes will increase the security and legal protection of persons subject to direct coercion, thereby contributing to the elimination of cases of abuse and the unjustified use of this instrument. I also welcome the establishment of the Minister of Health as coordinator of the National Mental Health Programme and the new provisions imposing an obligation to submit information on the implementation of this programme every 2 years. I agree with the argument that the extension of this period will allow for a fuller analysis of the information collected and will provide an opportunity to develop more effective solutions to identified and properly defined problems. The great advantage of the amendment, which has long been expected, is the introduction of regulations to regulate the status of municipal alcoholic problem resolution committees. Finally, a change in the way they operate will enable them to act in a way that is consistent with the rules, in particular the provisions of the Act of 28 August 1997 on the protection of personal data. I believe that the elimination of existing legal doubts will benefit both the actions of the members of the committee and the persons under their supervision, which will consequently benefit patients and increase the effectiveness of treatment. In my opinion, a major flaw is the narrowing down of the legislators' actions to amend the rules related to alcohol addiction. I believe that, in the context of this novel, it was necessary to lean on the municipal committees to solve alcohol problems and turn them into municipal committees to solve addiction problems. It is a misunderstanding, in my view, to remove signs of prohibition on the sale, administration or consumption of alcoholic beverages on ships and at sea ports. In the year that the High Sejm has adopted a resolution for the year of increasing concern for the sobriety of the nation, we increase the number of places where alcohol will be available. I believe that we should still discuss this amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Health, in time for those dealing with addiction issues to take part in it. However, I know that sending the project back to the committee will prevent the rapid entry into force of other important and expected changes. Thus, taking into account these reservations and taking into account above all the well-being of patients, and hoping that the bad rules will be corrected in a completely new law on sobriety education and combating alcoholism, near Free and Solidarni will support the procedated bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u337	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Health Committee on the Government's draft law on basic health care (prints 1813, 1813-A and 1940). I would like to ask Mr Tomas Latos to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u338	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Health Committee the report of the committee on the government draft law on basic health care, prints 1813, 1813-A and 1940. I'll add right away that it wasn't so peaceful here. The first reading took place at the meeting of the Sejm and at this level, and indeed at this stage there was also agreement and satisfaction that finally there would be a long-awaited law on basic health care. All members of the various clubs expressed such satisfaction. On the other hand, during the work of both the subcommittee, which I have the honour to direct and later during the submission of the subcommittee report at the committee meeting, there was a rather turbulent discussion on a number of provisions. The question of the security of personal data seems to have been discussed in particular for a long time. Especially art. That's 18 of them. I hope that when the Minister answers these questions, he will again address these doubts. In any case, the law is necessary and complementary in its part to the law we had previously adopted, not today, but at one of the previous Sejm meetings concerning pilotage in health care. As part of the functioning of the Basic Healthcare Act, piloting is to take place so that, in terms of solutions that the government, the Minister, but above all the environment of family doctors, make certain changes concerning e.g. funding research, a separate fund of money to finance research, but also many other solutions to be able to check this and exercise. The bill has been accepted by the committee and I recommend such a positive adoption on behalf of the committee of the High House. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u339	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Joanna Kopcińska will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u340	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government's draft law on basic health care. Fundamental healthcare plays a key role in the health system. The experience of other countries shows that developed and organised basic health care is able to satisfy up to 90% the health needs of the population. In Poland, POZ should also be the foundation of the health care system. He's predisposed to it, and he needs the potential to do it. However, there is a lack of proper regulation. It is therefore necessary to redefine the role and place of primary health care in the health system. The proposed law will strengthen this part of the system and create the conditions for improving the efficiency of primary healthcare. The benefits for citizens include, among others, improve the satisfaction of the care provided and improve the quality and safety of the benefits provided. One of the priorities is to put in place solutions for improving the quality of benefits and to create mechanisms for monitoring this quality. In particular, it is important to improve the coordination of patient care, so the key objective of the reform is to establish a core healthcare team that will take care of each patient. This team will include a doctor, nurse and midwife. The team's work will be coordinated by a doctor who will determine how and how to perform diagnostic and therapeutic procedures. Thanks to this reform, we will create mechanisms for continuous improvement of the quality and safety of the benefits provided, as well as the organisation and functioning of the whole system. The patient care system has been fragmented, and today every unit treats the patient for a different disease and on a different basis. That is why we want to restore the coordination of health care with a patient whose primary health care will be a pillar. The new POZ, like European, Western European, is largely based on family medicine, but we do not close ourselves to other specializations. These changes require preparation, doctors are needed for this specialization and well-educated medical staff, so we want to achieve the desired condition from 1 January 2025. Finally, a primary healthcare professional will be a specialist in family medicine, in the field of family medicine, in the field of general medicine, in the field of general medicine, in the field of specialist in first or second degree, or in the field of pediatrics. The pediatrician, as so far, will take care of children and young people until they reach the age of 18, subject to completion of the course in the field of family medicine. The funding of POZ will be, as so far, the measures included in the National Health Fund's financial plan. The financial plan for the current year 2017 shows that 9900 million PLN is planned for basic health care, which represents 13.5% planned expenditure on benefits. We are assuming an annual increase in expenditure on the functioning of this part of health care. The new funding system is intended to be a incentive scheme, including: the effectiveness of the treatment, which will ensure the optimal use of the resources allocated to health services. The objectives of the reform will be gradually introduced and further steps will therefore be introduced in the following years when all participants in the system are properly prepared for this. From 2018, we will launch a pilot programme, coordinated care and a new funding system will start from 2020, and family medicine will become a pillar of primary health care from 2025. I ask you to support the bill that is being drafted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u341	Thank you very much. Ms Lydia Gądek will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u342	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Platform the club's opinion on the report of the committee on the government draft law on basic health care. Minister, we debated here a little over two weeks ago, four weeks ago. We have all spoken with the hope that we want the Basic Healthcare Act to be a modern, comprehensive law and finally to settle the issue of the fundamental system of our health care, i.e. family medicine, a family doctor's team. At the time, we all called on all the representatives of all the parliamentary clubs to make the work on this bill really exhausting all the sources of scientific knowledge about how this law is supposed to look. Unfortunately, the bill, as many of you have prepared, has been pushed through, or at least there is such an attempt to pass it without changes, which were proposed both by parliamentary clubs and by the environment very much interested in the shape of this law. The POZ Act is not just a bill to put a family doctor, a team of family doctors in the right place as regards the system, but it is really meant to give the patient the possibility of safety in this system. Unfortunately, you have not actually introduced any of the changes proposed by the medical community to this law. The law - instead of the modern act we were so hoping for - was adopted in this form, despite the doubt of many Members, including the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, in the form that it was initially proposed. The biggest problem for all, and everyone reported it, is the lack of prospects for financing specific tasks. First of all, we have heard here from my previous speaker that in the coming years we will want to increase the expenditure, and in the following years we will have the funding secured for the incentive effect, for the task charge. And I ask: Where is it written in this bill that we would want? We'd like that, too. We'd like a lot of different things. Only if we do not give provision for funding in the law, does it really mean that this law is not important to the state. And for us, it is and we would like it to be accepted. There is nothing about the possibility of expanding the team except the one that actually works today. But the biggest problem is that we don't really have any security here about how family doctors are going to be trained. Today we know that your resort has reduced the number of residents in such a way that not all doctors ending their internship will be able to receive residency in our country. And even if they do, there are no places to learn in the field of family medicine. The Minister himself spoke of it, he was kind to say on the committee. [[That's not true, yeah.]] [[Voice from the room: There are no seats.]] There's no room. The Minister himself said those words on the committee. [[That's maybe even more willing, really.]] Mr President, I did not disturb you when you spoke. You have time for questions. Please extend my time, Marshal. [[There's a line where you can say the wrong thing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u343	You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u344	Therefore, despite our great willingness and willingness to cooperate, we also do not have in the Law the protection of doctors, or actually patients whose doctors lose on 1 January 2018 the rights acquired to work in primary health care. The ministerial source speaks of about 1.5 million patients, medical sources speak of 2 million patients. You didn't pay any attention to it. Therefore, it is with great regret, given what I said - of course, there are many other things that could be brought up in the questions, e.g. The issue is to secure the connection between hospital coordination and coordination, which will be in primary healthcare, these points are really very much - with great regret, I repeat, [[♪ The bell ♪]] on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I submit to the Marshal a motion to reject the draft law on basic health care at second reading and at the same time an amendment if you did not accept this motion for rejection. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u345	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Kozłowski will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u346	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, I have the honour to present our position on the government draft law on basic health care, prints 1813, 1813-A and 1940. It was supposed to be a fundamental act, and the de facto project for the patient doesn't change anything, at least for the better. And that's obvious. Because let's look at this project not from a doctor's point of view, but from a patient like me's point of view. What does this bill change for me? I'll tell you what changes. If they lose the work of the doctors we have in the system right now... There's different data, there's 33,000. You need 24,000 to operate the system according to the Ministry's estimates, but at the moment these doctors are assisted by internists, not family medicine doctors, which is estimated to be 11,000. So from the patient's point of view, we have a threat, which is still due to the ageing of all of us, including doctors, and their retirement age. We are facing a threat that we will simply run out of people to operate this system, and this also applies to nurses. The situation here is even more tragic because the nurses are already missing. There's a lot missing, because according to the Ministry, there's 19,000 of them. With a piece, nurses estimate this number at 18,5,000, which means a few thousand are missing. Now, as a patient, I'm going to tell you what I want from POZ, as this is my first contact with the whole health system. Well, I expect to be quickly and properly diagnosed. And the diagnosis is because there's no money for it. We know what it's like right now: when we go to the doctor of first contact, which is the doctor of the family, we have to ask for every diagnostic examination. And according to this project, nothing's gonna change here. If you want to change the patient's first contact with the health system, I'd expect a physiotherapist, a psychologist, to be in a P.O.Z. syndrome like this. It will simply be good for the patient, for the whole system and for the economy, because thanks to these people as sick we will return to our professional activities faster. And there's nothing in the bill about funding diagnostics. According to your project, it's about keeping a patient in POZ before they put him on the list with a specialist who probably corresponds with the idea that you have an idea to shorten the queues to specialists. However, this is not a good solution for the patient. You do not think at all about staff shortages in Poland. You promise to put 8,000 in the system. new educated doctors. And here I have sincere doubts, even bordering with certainty, that this is unrealistic, because I see how you approach the resident doctors who are prepared to power the system. Perhaps you will educate these doctors, 8,000. young, ambitious people, only the question arises for which country. Because maybe right now we're training doctors to power the health system of Norway, Sweden or Germany. You don't analyze computer voids at all in this whole system. You don't have any real-life system right now, so we can get into the 21st century on medical information. I judge this project as science fiction. Science fiction is good in books, science fiction is good in movies, but in medicine - not really. Let's think about who's actually gaining on this project. Family medicine doctors are gaining in here. At the meeting of the Health Committee, it was the only professional group satisfied with this project. We met with criticism of internists, pediatricians, and doctors who actually have a bonus due to this project are happy. It cannot be said, I must say this: Minister Radziwiłł prepared a bill for his professional group, the group from which he comes. And this bill really isn't good for the patients. Therefore, we as the Kukiz Posel Club15 - despite the earlier announcement that we will lean on this issue, we will consider whether we can possibly support this project - absolutely cannot vote in favour of it. Our entire club will vote against his party. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u347	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Ruciński - on behalf of the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u348	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Today I have the honour to present the position of the Poselski Club of the Government's draft law on basic health care. I think we all agree that this project is needed by the Polish system - fortunately the Member listens - health protection. However, once again, we are creating law in chaos, haste and certain provisions in this proposal, which are not essential for it, make it difficult to give a positive opinion on the entire bill. In theory, the debate should be a standard in mature democracy, yet still a rare phenomenon in our politics. The ruling majority did not want a serious debate on the citizens' draft minimum wage for health workers by adopting their project in 36 hours. It did not take long to wait for the effects of such procedated laws. If the State had then engaged with the representatives of the Medical Professor's Agreement, it probably would not have happened to the strike of the residents. However, back to the substance, which is the draft law on basic health care, unfortunately, as I have already pointed out from this speaker, the support of the project was dependent on the shape in which it would leave the Health Commission. Unfortunately, once again, we are witnessing the pressing of bad rules, which may in many respects prove to be harmful to our patients. Despite the appearance of the discussion, no arguments are accepted by the government and absurd solutions are once again introduced, such as restrictions on primary healthcare doctors, which enter into force at the end of December 2024. How can you give up the experience of great doctors, internists, who will not be allowed to work in primary health care units since January 2025? Additional responsibilities for primary healthcare teams shall be introduced without indicating the sources of funding for them. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing a situation which proves that the Polish health system cannot be healed without increasing expenditure. Adding responsibilities and increasing the burden on health workers is merely masking and concealing the problem of staff shortages. Unfortunately, despite the legitimate assumptions of integrating basic healthcare legislation into a single act, the Modern will not support the proposed legislation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u349	Mr Kazimierz Kotowski on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u350	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position and comments on the government draft law on basic health care, prints no. 1813, 1813-A and 1940. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Listening to the statements of my previous speakers, one could say this: it started so well when, at first reading on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, President Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish and others expressed their hope that a legal act would be created that would bring together a number of solutions that would regulate the functioning of such an important area as basic health care. However, I regret to say that these actions, which occurred in time from the first reading, differ from those expectations, with what we have been waiting for. Many questions that were raised during the first reading and which sounded during the work of the subcommittee and the committee were unanswered. There is such a connection: Why was there so much work and there was an attempt to create a new legal act, if in practice, as my previous speakers said, nothing will change for the patient? Is it just that no matter what this bill is going to be, what it will have, and what it will have, it is important that it is ours? I'm leaving it unanswered. That's why there are questions that come to mind. For many years I worked in the local government, since 1990. It's a shame you're not here, Minister Radziwill. After all, almost many times, especially at the end of the year, when we met with health ministers during these difficult situations in which it was about division, contracts, the amounts that were also foreseen for POZ... After all, the problem of night care and Christmas care has already been solved. [[He didn't. There's a bigger problem.]] They're left with POZ, in quotes, because we know what it looks like, and what it's gonna be, it's gonna be in operation. [[Mr Beat Małecka-Libera: Okay.]] That's why we can ask each other questions now. What will change if financing continues to be based on the annual capital charge in POZ? What will change if we create teams that have established their scope in this law, their composition, but there will still be no money for basic research? Who's gonna fill out the teams' numbers? My previous speakers said very well: there are no nurses, there are no doctors, the number of family doctors is limited, and it can be calculated. Some in the previous debate indicated how many doctors we would have to direct to this area each year. I think there are other issues here, such as public consultations, such as the position of the Social Dialogue Council. These are questions for which there were no solutions, which were not taken into account. This issue was considered and sounded: the security of personal data. Not to mention the doubts that... Members received information on the treatment of the patient as an impersonal recipient in correspondence to their mailboxes, etc. I think that these expectations have not been met, so we will not be able to support this project in this form and content. I think it is time to consider what action needs to be taken so that this legislation can bring this area of healthcare back to the right track and ensure [[♪ The bell ♪]] the performance of the relevant tasks. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u351	Thank you very much. The honourable Member has provided her statement in writing. There are 17 people, ladies and gentlemen who have been asked questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. [[Mr. Marshal, such an important subject is speeding up, at least for one and a half minutes.]] As the first Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u352	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! According to the justification of the draft, one of the objectives of the Act is to provide the recipient with a wider catalogue of diagnostic tests and specialist consultations and to enable the doctor-doctor to consult. However, this project does not regulate specific ways and tools to define rules for the provision of specialist services. How, Minister, does the legislator intend to achieve this objective of the law? The second question is asked by patients who are concerned about this, and this concerns the provisions of the article. 16.18 of this draft law, namely the provision of information on the recipient to entities, organisations and bodies active in the field of health. What organisations and entities are they about? Is this about pharmaceutical-related companies that intend to use this information for business purposes? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u353	Thank you. The question will be asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club. I don't see your MP. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u354	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are debating a very important bill, which I think is a long time late. I wanted to refer to the issue that the Member raised before me. The important role of the POZ doctor will be to coordinate the treatment of the patient throughout the health system. One of the elements of these activities is the direction of diagnostic and specialist tests. This isn't good so far, there are doctors who save on diagnostics. Patients are often not allowed to ask for referrals. Questions. Will this be ensured under the new legislation? How will POZ-ET doctors be required to ensure a minimum level of diagnostic testing? Second question. What scale will pilot the implementation programme of the solutions proposed in the Act for individual voivodships? Question three. There are talk of new tasks for the Institute of Rural Medicine in Lublin, and I am from that region. What will it be? [[♪ The bell ♪]] His reorganization? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u355	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Civic Platform Club. There's no envoy. Mrs Beata Małecka-Libera, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u356	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There is no doubt that this is a flagship project, the flagship law of Minister Radziwiłł, because the Minister is a family doctor, but she has definitely disappointed us all. We politicians least, mostly patients, and the biggest mistake of this bill is the lack of funding, which I don't think anyone has any doubts about. The rapporteur said that Article. 18 arouses great controversy. He wakes up, of course, because the so-called flow. sensitive data is absolutely possible here, they are addressed to various foundations and associations, also operating e.g. In front of pharmaceutical companies. The second question, which also concerns a very controversial issue, came up during a discussion in the Health Committee. In fact, we refer in this law to a project called "For Life," which is not yet in public life, which has not yet been signed by the President. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u357	Mr Antoni Duda, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u358	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The bill in Chapter 4 deals with the quality of basic healthcare benefits. Action to improve the quality and effectiveness of healthcare is assumed to be implemented systematically by promoting the quality of healthcare provided in the POZ. Is it envisaged to introduce a monitoring system for healthcare provision? Are measures planned to improve the standard of care for patients? Will the proposed solutions promote the development of internal quality improvement systems? What can be expected after this year's competition is planned. Quality in primary healthcare to support bottom-up initiatives to improve the quality of primary healthcare provision? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u359	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u360	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is a pity that Minister Radziwiłł is not here, as I see, because this law concerns a very important issue for our society, for our health, for mature people, because it is these people who go, as a first contact, to basic health care. You're shutting down geriatric troops, and now you're treating people who are of a certain age, like recipients, and you're making it difficult for them to contact good doctors. I would like to ask whether the provisions of this Act do not open access to information about the health of citizens, i.e. sick people, e.g. the pharmaceutical industry. Who wants to adopt controversial provisions of the law on patient information collection? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are we not dealing with unhealthy lobbying of pharmaceutical companies here? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u361	Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u362	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you about financing POZ. You're saying this bill is flagship, it's important. Of course it's important, expected, but I don't think it's in that shape, because it's not really in the 21st century. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 22 you're talking about funding POZ'et, of course from the National Health Fund, not to mention what percentage you're going to finance. At present there are 13.5% And you say we assume it's going to grow. They're such promises, so I'd like to know if you're already predicting if it's going to grow, even next year. In contrast, in the article. 29 you are talking about budgets, but this is, of course, from this funding. I would also like to ask - because you sanction night and Christmas care in the hospital - if that is not precisely the minister's bow towards the POZ-et. And one last question: why hasn't the piloting started yet, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does the bill come into force yet? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u363	The question is asked by Marek Hok, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u364	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Basic health care, according to the bill, is aimed at, among others. coordination of healthcare of the recipient in the health care system. In English, the patient who goes to the family doctor will be conducted in this system through all consultations, including the fact that returning from the hospital is also to be provided with a consultation with specialists. The case concerns small towns, small villages, settlements, where there is a family doctor, and access to a specialist, to an outpatient specialist... such a doctor is within a distance of 40.50 km. Tell me, Minister, how a family doctor in the country is supposed to schedule this patient to a cardiologist, to an orthopedic surgeon, to an ophthalmologist, to a rheumatologist. How? He's supposed to get in there? Is he gonna call the fund and look for his consultant? Is he gonna send this patient to a private office and that's where the family doctor is gonna account for this consultation? This is a huge obstacle for patients in small towns and small villages. In large towns [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's easier to get specialist advice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u365	The question is asked by Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u366	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Is it true that this year, with the 5800 completed doctors' residency, only 4,000 will be available.? This is what the press releases have been given. I'm asking for an answer. By 2025, we all want family doctors, family doctors, family doctors, generally taking over the burden of caring for our population, not only for patients, but simply for Polish society. How many residences do we have in family medicine today? And whether, given the annual period of education, we will be able to develop 30,000 by then. Family doctors? Do we know how many places on courses or specialization modules that will enable doctors of other specialties to achieve appropriate qualifications? [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is spreading, ladies and gentlemen, the protest of the medical community, and we point out to you in a very polite and peaceful manner that this law is at least incompatible with reality. Maybe we should postpone the procession and remake it - convert it into a modern piece of legislation that we all expect. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u367	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u368	Mr. Marshal! Minister! What will be the level of incentive funding, i.e. the therapeutic effect achieved? What budget will this be financed from? What ranges will be taken into account? What will be measured? After all, what benefit will this bring to the patient? How will the effectiveness of prevention be measured? Will it only be measured by working with young patients? Will it also be measured and paid for seniors? And that's very important because we still have a problem with geriatrics. Please elaborate and explain. And finally, my last question is: Is there secure funding? Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u369	Mr Rajmund... Excuse me, Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u370	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'm feeling a bit disgusted because I asked this question to the Minister twice during the committee work and the answers I got are... Let's keep those answers quiet. Anyway, it's about art. Eighteen, 21 of which were also mentioned here. Let me just remind you that according to these articles, according to your project, representatives of health organizations and institutions will have full access over the phone to the most intimate information about us. I asked the Minister who these organizations are, the institutions. [[Mr Beat Małecka-Libera: All of them.]] The Minister was unable to answer. I asked how this information would be passed on and to whom exactly. The Minister says it's what they're gonna call POZ-ets in their organizational regulations. Minister, please say that to all of Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u371	The question is asked by Mr Rajmund Miller, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u372	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This bill will not help a Polish patient. She's completely empty without means. I wanted to ask the Minister if he knew the opinion of NIK on the access of Polish patients to laboratory tests on 21 August this year. You haven't reached any conclusions. We have the worst access and the worst results in Europe when it comes to laboratory testing. The State does not provide for additional measures, although the environment and the consultant have requested a change in the approach to these studies, i.e. the separation of these studies, the new valuation, the allocation of funds. How are the declarations made by the Prime Minister, who spoke about improving Polish health services, when today we hear that you are allocating PLN 1 billion to Kurski's regime television, but do you have where, because I am ashamed, the Polish patient? This money should go to the improvement of environments, people working in medical professions, as [[♪ The bell ♪]] they should also be transferred to the needs of the Polish patient. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u373	Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u374	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! What the Ministry of Health will do to prevent the doctor from passing on my sensitive data e.g. insurance companies or pharmaceutical companies - this possibility is enshrined in Article. 18 of this bill - so that later someone would not wipe their teeth with our data? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u375	Mr Radosław Lubczyk, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u376	Minister, Art. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 allows the family doctor to consult with another doctor who has not seen the patient. With full respect for fellow doctors, but for example. in the field of neurology, the oral consultation of this patient with the family doctor does not give the right picture and without seeing the patient you may make serious mistakes to the detriment of the patient. The second problem that this law is facing - not much time, indeed. You're talking about apprehending doctors who don't have the specialties they need. And it would sound pretty good, but in small towns and villages where there's often only one doctor, this doctor has a problem with anyone replacing him, even if he wants to go on vacation. If he still has to study, take part in these required trainings, will you provide family doctors in these localities who will replace those doctors who will train at any given time? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u377	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Raczak, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u378	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The family doctor is supposed to be the basis of the system, to secure 80.90% health needs. So that it has to be a specialist and strive for it to be a family medicine specialist, I think it's accepted by everyone. The opposition state is concerned that 8 or 10,000 will not be able to be educated. specialists until then. Indeed, one can wonder if this can be done. But my question is this: What kind of doctors will lose these powers in 2025? Because from what I understand, doctors who are currently working as internists aren't gonna lose their rights, it's about future internists doctors, they're gonna lose their rights. So the question is, will some doctors who are currently working as internists in POZ lose these powers, or will doctors who are now starting their specialization from the internship and will finish their specialization in 6 years will be able to start their activities in POZ? If that is the case, these concerns are unfounded. So I'm asking for an answer. Thank you. [[And in the S.O.R., they all work with family medicine.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u379	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Anna April, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u380	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. Since the opposition roni crocodile tears over the number of specialists, I wanted to ask if it is true that today in terms of the number of specialists we consume those decisions that were made 5 or 6 years ago. [[Mr Beat Małecka-Libera: 2 years you are in charge.]] But a specialist, Doctor...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u381	Madame, do not engage in discussions with the public.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u382	Madame, you know very well that the training of a specialist lasts five years. That's the minimum, because most specialists are usually educated for six years, because that's how long it takes to specialize. So today they go into the system, they go to work as doctors, who have been specialized in, for example, as part of their residency in 2012. And is it true? [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's $2.5,000, and today we have $4,000. A resident, like last year? 4,000. We've introduced young doctors to residency. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Member Beat Małecka-Libera: They are now in hospitals and are on strike.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u383	Thank you, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Now I'd like the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr. Zbigniew the King. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u384	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Basic Healthcare Act is a legal act that is actually expected, indeed is desirable, indeed a difficult act, also technically difficult. For this reason, we have adopted such a concept to develop a kind of way of entering this desired, expected POZ over the coming years. The bill is now needed, but we need to anticipate and anticipate in this bill the current situation with regard to staff, related to habits, related to opportunities, including financial opportunities. Most of the elements discussed here in the form of critical comments are not included in this law. I will try to present collectively the ones that just aroused the most emotions. I will start with matters relating to the transmission of data, because indeed there was a debate at each meeting of the subcommittee and, in principle, every committee meeting that took place. I also hear from you here that there are doubts that these are pharmaceutical companies, and these are private insurers or any other insurers who will reach out to sensitive data about our patients. It was neither the intention of this article nor those records would cause this to be possible, as the provision of data is governed by the Act on the Rights of the Patient and the Ombudsperson of the Rights of the Patient, which sets out the rules for the provision of medical records and the closed catalogue of entities to which the medical records of the patient may be made available. And these two elements in this law are referred to to in order to precisely specify it, to clarify it. The Act on the Rights of the Patient and the ombudsman also recommends that health data be made available to insurance companies. I will recall this because it was not possible, in the response procedure in the subcommittee, that in these laws, firstly, the health care provider makes medical records available to insurance companies with the consent of the patient. It's about art. Article 26 (2) (b) 3 point 7 of the Act on the Rights of the Patient and the Advocate of the Rights of the Patient. Secondly, the application of an insurance undertaking, including a private insurer or any other institution, of information about the health status of the insured person - the scope of the information is determined by the law - requires the written consent of the insured person or of the person to whom the insurance contract is to be concluded, or of his or her statutory representative. And that's an art. Article 38 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 Act on Insurance and Insurance Activities. This is the answer for Members who asked for their own data, how we secure them. With regard to the concept of representatives of organisations, health institutions in the area of primary health care, in regulations on the scope of tasks of doctor of the POZ, nurse of the POZ, midwife of the POZ, both from 2005 and 2016, these institutions include among others. Family aid centres, individuals responsible for anti-drugs, family assistance, mental health, patient organisations. The information provided will not contain personal and sensitive data. These are the areas between art. Article 18a 21 specifically recalling those provisions of the Act which prevent the use of sensitive data for which you were properly concerned at a committee meeting. On the other hand, several of you asked about individual questions about funding. I'll answer collectively. We do not have in the Acts on the provision of the indicated funding under any circumstances. Therefore, the POS Act also refers to financing and sources of funding. On the other hand, the novelty of this law concerns additional three elements that regulate the incentive system for doctors who will want to benefit from it. The first element is the budget entrusted. This is in response to questions, where are the resources for diagnostics, extended diagnostics, extended specialist consultations in relation to the current system. The budget entrusted, which used to function shortly before the cashiers of the sick and in three voivodships within the framework of the sickness funds as so-called. fundholding, it was these additional funds to finance the scope of diagnostic benefits, specialist benefits. We want to restore these solutions in a way that is possible right now, now. This will be a project widely extended for 2 years, while at this stage piloting will be carried out by the NFZ on precisely these solutions, i.e. financing additional benefits for an additional budget. Comments on imposing specific extended scopes without funding are also not allowed, because we want to recall this precisely within this budget. And here, too, the answer to those countries that refer to diagnostics. This is an element where these increased diagnostic needs will be financed. It is difficult to enter whether it is not possible to enter an additional budget at this level of care or specifically a percentage share of this budget, because so-called. the list of patients in each physician varies and the diagnostic needs are different for this population. In funding we also point to the possibility of so-called. the task-to-work fee. This includes additional measures to ensure prevention of health promotion within a wide range of health prevention and promotion programmes, which we intend to introduce beyond those already being carried out by the NFZ, so that these activities can be financed precisely, for example. with the participation of nurses, family and environmental nurses, in the patient's environment. We also want to prepare such budgets. Additional action for extra money. The measure of efficiency, it was also one of the questions asked with concern, refers at least to elements that do not exist at the moment. They are in the form of financing specific activities without measuring the therapeutic effect of these activities. This is what we have in preventive programmes funded only if a particular person, a particular potential patient, is involved, and there are no stimulants to reach out to these patients. It is in this task budget that we want to change. And the third element is the motivational supplement for the outcome of treatment and the quality of care provided. This quality has also been mentioned many times here and one of the questions referred to specific quality actions. That question was still valid this year. By drawing up the provisions of this law and indicating the quality of the recruitment process, there has been a strong acceleration in the practice of primary healthcare professionals, in the framework of the accreditation procedure carried out by the Quality Monitoring Centre. According to this project, the first phase of the first accreditation pool will be completed in December. I can't tell you how many practices this will be, because the whole programme affects several hundred actors, and at the first stage it is likely that a few dozen of these practices will be visited. Whether they'll be ready to get such an accreditation certificate, I can't say. I suspect so, because there is a great deal of involvement of doctors working in these practices. On the other hand, the motivational supplement for the outcome of treatment refers to a specific outcome. Here the list, so to speak, such elements can be long depending on the range that will be developed. At the moment, we do not have any studies on these specific programmes or to improve internal quality, because it also sounded here, or as if these elements with specific therapy in a specific case of specific diseases. However, as for the present state, we have experience. The NFZ operates in two categories such programs, which even the therapeutic effect we want to measure. This applies to patients with diabetes mellitus and patients with cardiovascular disease, when prevention programmes or tertiary prevention programmes should be carried out and paid as much as possible for a specific result, which should be indicated, so to speak, for reimbursement purposes. Here a few questions, a few comments were about the bands, and it was both that there are already these bands, and that they are not there, that there are nurses who are already working as part of the practice, or that they are not there. Ladies and gentlemen, staffing status or staffing potential in the system that we have right now looks like I put it in all these committee meetings. I'll do it again. In POZ, 33 thousand people work in Poland. doctors for the number of declared 34 million citizens of our country. There are 23 grand collecting declarations. Doctors, of which the pennies are indeed internists at the moment. That's about 11,000. Family doctors are over 10,000. And the pediatricians are 5,000. - $6,000. These are the people who collect declarations. And these people, and these declarations, this law does not touch, because these are acquired rights, which are preserved now and in 2024. On the other hand, this potential is so high that we do not agree very much with the comments on those who lose their right to conduct or collect declarations, and these rights lose in accordance with the 2007 Act. I do not know what was the intention of the Minister of Religion who introduced the statement that, within 10 years, doctors who work in primary health care should either obtain a specific title to such a practice, or start training in family medicine. That's what I'm going to say, a ten-year-old period. The intention was probably that due to the failure to implement the Basic Healthcare Act at the time, these regulations were introduced to improve the functioning of this basic care. The level of funding - many of you also referred to it - this is it. 13.5% at the moment. If the question concerns a guarantee, this rate does not change. There are no such intentions, nor are they reduced. There's no intention of reducing it. On the other hand, if we are to pay extra, I think we should rather refer to what this extra money should be paid for, because there were also various discussions at committee meetings. Some supported increased funding, but there were also quite clear voices that these doctors... And here, in your statements, this has also been in the context of pointing out that Minister Radziwiłł is the beneficiary here, because for his environment he is presenting a bill, which is also not true, because the law was prepared definitely earlier. I feel that, so to speak, responsible for this law completely and I am preparing it so that, above all, patients have a uniform system of primary care in every place of our country, not the situation that is at the moment, when there are at least two or three different systems in one city, when the level of POZ in Warsaw is definitely different e.g. from the level of POZ in Krakow, when teams work in one part of Poland, and in another part work individual, different, non-communicating entities. And that's kind of the purpose of this bill. And with regard to funding, I confirm that the elements of additional funding will allow you to pay for additional benefits of additional money. It's a place of residence. I mean, I didn't really understand these questions because we don't want to educate 30,000 right now. family doctors. I think it was a lapsus. Right now, like I said, we have 33,000. family doctors. This year, and I said that, in the autumn session, for the first time in the history of residency recruitment, in this new program, there were more willing than places. That doesn't mean that there aren't enough places missing, because there are plenty of untapped residences in other specialties that, if necessary, we'll respond. Because it happened for the first time, we weren't ready to do it overnight. And the fact that this happened, I think, was the result of the fact that we finally made it clear that we are working on the Basic Healthcare Act. We also did not work on this Basic Healthcare Act in some express mode, because the first acts were presented last year, also for various types of external consultations. The results of these consultations came in December. year and basically all the amendments, all the comments were analysed by May this year. In May, consultations were held several times with the various groups for which this law is based, and most of the comments of nurses, nurses of obstetric institutions, family doctors, internists and doctors associated in medical chambers and trade unions were taken into account. That is why this law is a kind of compromise which, I understand, many of you are not satisfied with, but it is a compromise which allows the introduction of this law not as an act which will simply be dead in a moment. About sensitive data, I think, I said. I hope that you will read these legal acts, so to speak. It's about sensitive data. About the consultation without watching... Mr Lubczyk. You often need a doctor to consult you... It's about the certainty of recognition. If such certainty is impossible within individual practice... And that's what differentiates family doctors. They're alone. There are no ward celebrations and discussions, specific patients, concrete solutions. It is often the individual work of this person and taking responsibility for the health of this patient. If it's possible to consult your own thoughts, even by phone... That's what this is about. It's not about the patient, as mentioned here, e.g. Neurologically, with the suspicion of stroke, he didn't see a neurologist, it's just that a family doctor or a POZ doctor should be sure that he's gonna direct him right to the right place. Such situations happen many times at the moment. We want to write it down so that it's possible to finance it, too, and it doesn't take place on a kind of friendly basis, as it's happening right now. Replacements during training. Doctors who are working right now have acquired rights. Therefore, the courses that are at the moment are quite simple to do, but they really need to go to some educational center. And that was the question about the Institute of Rural Medicine, what is the scope of its functioning. It is at this institute that we want to concentrate all those involved in family medicine who have something to say in Poland and in the world - because here we have many outstanding family doctors, professors of universities and cooperating in international groups - so that this is the place to show us how this family medicine should be built to become a speciality desirable by trainees and residents, but also to improve for example. research carried out for purposes and in the field of POZ, quality programmes, which would also have to be developed in such a formula that can be implemented by those doctors who work. I hope that the trainings that enter into this law as mandatory will be non-burdening training, especially as far as these small towns are concerned. And the fact that the Institute of Rural Medicine has so many years of experience shows that it conducted training and specializations in general medicine in the 1960s, 70s, 80s and 90s, when doctors from small towns went away for much longer training than what we would suggest at the moment. What's gonna happen in 2025? There will be so much that doctors who, from 2025 onwards, will want to collect declarations will have to have a specific specialization: family medicine or pediatrics until they are 18 years old. All those who at that time, on 31 December 2024, will have declarations, under this law, will not lose these powers, i.e. those doctors remain for the rest of their professional life. Of course, there is a course, training is planned, but, as I said, it is a course, not in spite of or incriminating, only one that will allow us to prepare the POS in a uniform manner across the country. I think that the seven-year period for completing such a course is sufficient to keep you calm, and all the more so not to cause anxiety among doctors, especially, God forbid, among patients. It's about the declaration. Declarations do not expire, declarations refer to the team. We want the team to work with one population, so that there are no situations like that. The nurse makes the balance sheets and the doctor who works with the other population doesn't have any information about the balance sheets. Because it's not the same list, the midwife is still visiting the women on the doctor's list, on the nurse's list, but it's as if none of these institutions are working. We want this population to be uniform. The methods of reaching an agreement between these members of the team are different, completely arbitrary, as you wish, especially in small towns, whether by agreement between them or on the basis of employment, e.g. Nurse, doctor, midwife, part-time or whatever. They don't lose labour law in POZ doctors who even lose now, because they just lose, i.e. they lose the right to accept declarations. That's what these discussions were all about. On the other hand, doctors who work with too much population, a population that includes people who are too sick, too demanding certain activities of executive medicine, will certainly eat up employed doctors working with a specific population. According to the same mechanism that we are talking about within the budget entrusted, a specialist doctor may also provide a service at a place of practice involving several, several patients from a selected group of the care population. It is also possible to do so by this law. I was talking about funding. The capital stake is not the only element. I was talking about public consultations and various positions. The scope of the study. I see that diagnostics are also a problem. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm a doctor too. I would not want to be put in a position where I would have to implement the budget for diagnostics. If a patient requires a specific examination, then I, as a doctor and most doctors in Poland, will allow this patient to be examined. We will allow as individual doctors or teams regardless of the director who finances, or often regardless of the contract in practice. This is a great concern for family doctors who are currently working, and that is why these tensions and annual negotiations or negotiations every six months, now even negotiations on the amount of the capital charge, are not just to increase their own income, but to be able to accomplish what the population needs. I understand these protests and comments. In order to meet them, we have prepared this law so that these additional financial benefits in accordance with the budget entrusted, the incentive allowance or the task budget will secure these benefits. On the other hand, as regards the determination of the percentage, the situation will be the same as at the moment when financing a service or a specific performance. Surely because it's money, such a witness will be made. A POZ - and so we want to create - is this level of general care, of a generalist nature, as defined, which concerns healthy patients and keeping patients healthy. If we direct the funding system in such a way that we pay for specific diagnostic, therapeutic, any other clinical benefits, we will produce these benefits under the POS, not necessarily for the benefit of the patient. It's also part of what the patient gets. It will gain the safety of quality service within POZ. There's been a statement here about piloting. The pilot also aroused emotions during our discussions. We have a pilot bill, which, I believe, is a kind of innovative law in the sense that it introduces the possibility of preparing a specific solution by the health minister, the NFZ, under certain conditions, and testing this solution within the selected population, the possibility of testing within the selected population both a financial and an organisational solution, a specific stimulant. That's what this bill is for, so we don't do it all over the country right away. According to this act will be piloted by the NFZ. Right now, there's an indication that it's gonna be okay. 45 POZ practices. For our part, on the part of the Ministry, we want a little bit more to make it bigger, while the NFZ will set this number in EU funds. It is difficult for me to say how much it will be for the voivodship, because entities, healthcare providers, who volunteered for the so-called. Preselection, it's about 700. They will simply have to meet additional criteria so that it is possible to evaluate this pilotage, carried out practically every month, and analyse the effects. So that's piloting, this bill doesn't apply directly to it, but the results of this piloting in the NFZ we want to use in designing the care we want to expand in the area of POZ in two years. A question has been asked about the amendments to the Lifetime Programme. So it's Art. Article 48a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) 1a and 1b of the Law of 27 August 2004 on the provision of public-funded health care in respect of the "Life' programme were introduced by the Law of 22 June 2017 amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of the "Life' programme, Dz. U. poz. This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 July 2017 and shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the During this time, a draft law on amending the Law on healthcare services financed by public funds and the Law on liability for violation of public finance discipline, so-called. a pilot law adopted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2017. This proposal amends Article. 48a and as a result of the overlap of the legislative work did not take into account the amendments introduced by the Law of 22 June 2017 amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of the "For Life' programme. In view of the failure of the pilot act to introduce an appropriate amendment at the seymical stage, it was appropriate for the Senate to adopt it without amendments in order to extend the pilot programmes as soon as possible, including the urgent entry into force of the law. as regards primary health care. It was decided that an appropriate change would be introduced in the draft law on basic health care in the Polish Parliament, which also includes amendments to the Law of 27 August 2004 on the provision of public-funded health care. This is because it is necessary to avoid a legal gap in eliminating changes in the health policy programme. The Ministry of Health is aware that a combination is necessary during the publication of the above-mentioned publication. set up, and undertake to take all available steps to enable the conflict-free entry into force of the rules. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that this is an opportunity, of course I have examples of such solutions as were introduced in the 2008 legislative package, in the June 2005 laws, when the acts were introduced in parallel and simply followed by similar provisions. At the moment, there is no danger, as far as I am concerned, that I would accept, although I would consider that there is no danger. With regard to Mrs Chmiel's speech, I can say that we do not close the geriatric branches, it is not a situation that we, in terms of any closure... These branches are now funded in competition mode and will certainly be financed in a way other than the branches from the network, some of the scopes of operations in the network are carried out in the internist branches. On the other hand, I absolutely cannot go on to the agenda over a statement concerning any closure. Nothing like that ever happened. Similarly, we do not have any dramatic reports about the lack of night and Christmas medical attention. The transfer of this to hospitals resulted in a change of location, but gave the opportunity to significantly reduce the amount of benefits in the SOR. This, of course, is a process. This isn't gonna happen once. When it comes to shortening queues, yes, the Basic Healthcare Act is the law that, together with the Hospital Network Act, will reduce queues. But this will not be on the principle of limiting accessibility, but on the principle of eliminating benefits provided only because they are paid, first and second, only because in certain specialties the system requires the performance of these benefits. I have talked extensively about these specialties during committee meetings, and I would not like to bring this up so as not to expose myself to conflicts with doctors who do hard work, with specialist doctors, but probably those of you who are in charge of health care know cases where overperformance of benefits is high. I already told you about the coordination and the specialist. The coordination of benefits at the level of the POZ is to be based on the planning of a specific diagnostic and therapeutic process for each individual patient on the list of subjects of the doctor concerned. This coordination is to ensure that the patient does not get lost in the system, as he has so far been lost when one specialist receives a referral to another and basically has to find himself a place where the witness is carried out. Referring to the fact that we are introducing this law to the recipients, we must say that it is not this law. The recipient is that statement, the term which refers to the method of public financing in certain eligible benefits. This is not a POZ law that introduces such a statement. I think I answered most of the questions. If one of them has failed to respond, we will send a written reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u385	Thank you, Minister. I would ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Tomasz Latos, to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u386	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At first, I wanted to thank you very much. too exhausting, exceptionally, I would say comprehensive and accurate answers to questions. I hope that this will also lower the temperature of the debate on this law, which was completely unnecessary. It seems to me that it is quite obvious and probably quite easy to explain and to acknowledge that the law cannot regulate many matters in detail. From this there are lower-ranking acts and there through appropriate regulations, all that probably rightly concerns us all, raises questions, will be included. It is about the issues that the Minister spoke so extensively and comprehensively about, including the financial issues that the Minister was asked about. It is not accepted that any other law regulates health expenses for which the payer, the National Health Fund, is responsible. You can't do that from here. there were these things to write down here. To be honest, it is only with the temperature of political debate that I can explain the questioning of such questions, the formulation of such doubts by, or what, experienced parliamentarians who have dealt with many medical laws. It seems to me, Minister, that we will probably come back to this issue on a number of occasions, because it will impose, for example, piloting issues. An assessment of the Health Committee will be needed - an assessment of how this piloting will be carried out, what lessons will be drawn from this. And I hope that we will be happy together then that we are tidying up this important area of health protection and that we will be able to continue the debate in a more peaceful atmosphere. Once again, I would like to thank all the speakers and the Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u387	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u388	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the Health Committee on the Government's draft Law on Basic Health Care. The proposed project aims to ensure high quality primary health care and to create the conditions for financial incentives for public-funded healthcare providers to raise the level, quality of the benefits provided and to define the role and place of primary health care in the health system and to improve its organisation and functioning. We should not forget the role of primary health care here. This is where the patient enters the whole healthcare system. Diagnosis and prevention are provided in POZ. It is here that a POZ doctor, after initial examinations, can adequately direct the patient to further levels of healthcare. Once again, I must express my approval for the bill submitted. It welcomes the fact that the current government has noted the need to rebuild the conditions of the current system relating to the role of POZ in the health system. The project is fully responsible for demographic change - an ageing population. The introduction of a coordinated model of care will put emphasis on preventive action, which will affect the higher level of health in the later years of our society. The proposed rules will help to improve the health of our country's society. I hope that patients will increase the level of satisfaction with healthcare provided and the level of safety of benefits provided. I believe that the regulations introduced will increase the level of coordination of healthcare and, in particular, contribute to improving the management of healthcare for the patient. At its meeting on 27 September this year, the Health Commission sent a draft submitted to the High Sejm for a permanent subcommittee on health and innovation organisations in medicine. Practically all the articles were adopted without longer discussion of their wording. As recommended by the Health Commission near Free and Solidarnia, as before, and now, will support the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u389	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 12. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft power market law (print No 1722). I ask the Minister of Energy, Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski, to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u390	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The draft power market law amends the current electricity market model. In short, this change involves transforming the single-good electricity market into a dual-good market. This means, in practice, that electricity generators, i.e. power plants and power plants, are now being remunerated for the electricity produced and sold, and that, once the power market has been put in place, the generators who enter into a power contract will receive a remuneration not only for the electricity produced and sold, but also for maintaining their generation fleet in full availability. Why is such a change needed? The analysis shows that after 2020 there may be serious generation shortages in Poland in the national electricity system - generation capacity, which is fully controlled and managed by transmission system operators - despite the fact that seven large power blocks are currently being built in the country: two blocks in Opole, one in Jaworzno, Kozienice, Turów, together with those already in Płock and Stalowa Wola, which will be able to cover around 20% peak power demand. What are the reasons why we expect generation shortages in the future? Well, we have a very advanced age of many blocks in our country. They were mainly built in the 1960s, 70s and 80s, especially the 200 MW blocks, which are the basis for production today and which in the country are more than 50. Another reason is the tightening standards for emissions of harmful substances into the environment. This year, specifically in August, the requirements for new best available techniques for electricity and heating were published (so-called. BAT conclusions) which force national manufacturers to adapt to them exhaust after-treatment installations in power plants and CHP plants. This means that significant investment is needed or that generation capacity is excluded which will not be met. new standards. The electricity market is currently very distorted. There are no signals on it to invest in new generation capacity or, for example, in modernization. The market distortion is due to the functioning of RES sources receiving very large subsidies. Working RES sources significantly reduce the working time of controllable sources, i.e. currently conventional sources, thereby aggravating the economic conditions of their operation, while making it necessary to keep these sources ready in the event of a lack of energy production from RES. Here, I would like to strongly defy the kind of suggestions that appear that the power market is in order to fight more strongly renewable energy sources. No, we do not want to combat renewable energy sources, because the agreements we have agreed with the European Commission are that we will implement the commitments imposed on Poland and the commitments made by Poland regarding the amount of renewable energy sources and the reduction of emissions associated with this. Therefore, the power market does not serve this purpose. The power market is designed to ensure that when renewable energy sources are not working, so when less renewable energy is supplied... Even this year, we registered a total of several dozen days when renewable energy sources, whose installed capacity is almost 6 GW, gave up to below 100 MW. Thus, with installed capacity of almost 6 000 renewable energy sources. MW was a few dozen days when the power supplied was less than 100 MW. In such a situation, conventional sources must be ready, they must wait for us to always have a constant supply of electricity. Due to the steady increase in the number of renewable energy sources, the number of hours of operation of conventional energy sources in the country is falling, therefore their economic conditions and the basis for building new energy sources... It is very important that there are worse economic bases for building new conventional energy sources. And it doesn't matter that conventional energy sources are carbon or gas sources. At present, all these conventional energy sources have no basis for pursuing commitments. If we exceed the expected by the European Commission for 2020 15% the share of renewable energy sources, in fact there will no longer be any economic basis for the construction of any conventional power plant. Therefore, in order to maintain the security of the Polish energy system a power market is necessary, it is necessary to conclude such contracts. One thing has nothing to do with the other if we look at whether it's a pro-renewable policy or not. I would also like to explain what has been happening so far. As for all such activities which were, they are treated from the outside as a form of attitude against renewable energy sources, they simply resulted from a completely different approach, connected with the fact that a very large number of Polish population for various reasons did not wish in their immediate vicinity windmill energy sources - and for health reasons, and for a number of other reasons connected precisely with the functioning of local communities. On the other hand, renewable energy sources will be built. The Renewable Energy Act clearly indicates this direction. Other formulas have been adopted for clusters or prosumers, as well as renewable energy for biogas plants. There will be auctions in this direction. So these renewable energy sources will be built - so that we can make this clear. As a government of Poland, we want to continue our work towards fulfilling our commitments with regard to the European Commission. If we look at the next risks, the CO2 emissions trading system is also a threat and the interventions planned in this market are to increase the prices of emission allowances, thereby increasing the cost of electricity generation and further aggravating the economic conditions of power plants and fossil fuel power plants. At the same time, we are in such a situation that in the country there is a growing demand for electricity. According to information in 2016, electricity consumption increased by 2.4% compared to 2015. First, after three quarters, the information indicates that this increase in the current year compared to 2016 will be similar. So it should be assumed that the increase in power demand can be approx. 2% per year. It is also a signal to us that new powers must be built and must be in this direction, so to speak, prepared and that this law is simply essential if we want to maintain the energy security of the country. Continuing in the current model of the electricity market, taking into account the challenges facing our manufacturing sector, would lead to a very serious increase in the problem of capacity adequacy in Poland. As a result, this could lead to irreversible negative consequences for the Polish economy and for the citizens. Such negative effects may be cyclically repeated periods with introduced power limitations, i.e. so-called. power levels. These restrictions have recently taken place in August 2015. In addition to the measurable losses caused by the lack of energy, this would also be a major image loss in Poland. In the event of a small temporary shortage of power in the national energy system, at least part of these shortages may be covered by energy imports from neighbouring electricity systems. However, we cannot allow national consumers to be dependent on permanent imports of electricity, which is not in the interests of our country in the longer term. What does that tell you? It is mainly due to the fact that there is no certainty about the availability of energy from abroad for Polish citizens during periods of danger. Each country in such a situation will first seek to ensure sufficient power for its own citizens. Therefore, the import of capacity should be considered as a complement rather than a basis for State security. For these reasons, it is necessary to rebuild the national manufacturing assets by modernising it and building completely new production blocks in place of decommissioning blocks. The main element of the proposed power market will be the two-stage capacity auctions organised by the transmission system operator. The first auction, called the main auction, will take place 5 years before the year of delivery. We assume that this first auction will take place in the second half of 2018. She's gonna be the main auction. At this auction, the majority of the capacity needed to cover the capacity demand in a given year will be purchased. Then a year before the year of delivery will be organized so-called. an additional auction that will allow for the purchase of any missing power volumes that were not foreseen four years earlier as needed. Power providers who win the auction will receive remuneration just for maintaining their readiness to supply power and for providing it during periods of danger. The risk periods will be announced by the transmission system operator at the time of the national power balance problem. In the event of failure to deliver power, the power supplier shall be liable for failure to comply with its power obligation. This will simply result from a contract with these power suppliers. Capacity providers in the power market will be power plants, heat plants, power stores, electricity consumers, i.e. those who will contractually stop energy collection at a given point in time, i.e. the so-called system. DSRs, and energy sources, RES, which will not use their dedicated support system. As of 2021, a new fee, known as the Capacity Charge, will be set out in the customer account of the existing charges. However, I would like to explain immediately that separating this charge from the current account will not result in an increase in the burden on the recipients. Today, by paying the electricity bill, we bear the cost of maintaining the generation capacity, but it is hidden in this account in the price of energy. This lack of transparency means that ultimately money does not go where it should be, i.e. investment and maintenance of power in energy, but disappears in the overall account of profits and losses of energy companies. We would like the resources collected from the power charge to be where they should be, namely modernisation and new investments. The monthly value of the capacity charge, which will enter into force in 2018 on the basis of the assumption that it will be implemented at the auction in 2021, will vary depending on how much the farms consume energy. So it should be assumed that 3 million of the poorest farms, i.e. using less than 500 kWh of energy per year, will pay 2 PLN per month, even less than 2 PLN per month, i.e. about 20 PLN per year, while in the case of about 1.5 million of these the richest electricity consumers who consume more than 2800 kWh of electricity per year, this monthly fee may amount to about PLN 9,9.5. Looking at the future of our electricity system, but also at the procedure for our relations with the European Commission, I would like to stress that we are at the negotiating stage of the power market and all these things have recently been agreed with the European Commission in connection with the translation of our law over time. As we know, there has been a delay in our work on this bill in the Seym about a month. It was about establishing certain detailed provisions relating to the power market, which will be brought into this law also in the form of amendments agreed with the European Commission to warn questions, because I met with such questions, why we were a little delayed with this process, extending it in time. We would like this bill, when it comes out of the Sejm and goes to the Senate, to be fully in line with the principles that have been developed - I might say so - with the European Commission. On the other hand, as this is all a bit of a package deal, negotiations are also ongoing in parallel with the notification of the second stage of State aid to hard coal mining. As we know, the state aid currently granted ends in 2018, which is less than a year and a half from the end of 2018. If we refer to this, we have this kind of situation that in 2018 there is an end to public aid for coal mining related to the withdrawal of units, i.e. coal mines... [[Lockdown.]] ...in turn, this does not mean that either the Company for the Restructuring of Mines and that these mining areas will not be reorganized. They should even be revitalized. And for this reason, as it will be after 2018, we are currently having very intense discussions on measures and what we want to achieve after 2018 in the mining areas. A special revitalization fund is also being discussed in the field of mining. So that even though the winter package is not fully accepted, in all this, if we are talking about the power market and about restructuring of coal mining, there are also some declarations expected from the Polish government, as these things will continue to look, so what are our expectations regarding the winter package, as we with our energy potential in all of this want to find ourselves. This is still an open discussion, but it is already taking place within the European Commission. We don't want to go out here with these things at the last minute. At the same time, as you know, there are also final discussions on the ETS, i.e. everything related to support, how much money for certificates of origin will be received by individual power plants or how much they will have to pay. We have here a large open package, which also depends on the future of our energy, and actually our economy. This is why we attach great importance to this in the Ministry of Energy and we also want to discuss it quite openly. Although I would like to stress that some of the elements relating to these direct intergovernmental negotiations within the European Commission are reserved information until they are fully resolved. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u391	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And I ask Mrs Ewa Malik to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u392	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the Government's draft power market law from print no. 1722. The aim of the regulation under consideration is to ensure a stable and continuous supply of electricity to households and industry. Businesses operating in our country should receive as much power from the electricity grid as they need at the moment and energy supply should be undisturbed and continuous. Unfortunately, we have already had some difficult experiences in Poland. This year Poland was hit by two natural disasters, which each time cut off hundreds of thousands of households from electricity. In the first half of August, nearly 400 thousand. recipients, and in October almost 1400 thousand. consumers have been deprived of access to electricity. In order for the Polish State to be able to fulfil its primary task of ensuring energy security, a stable electricity system is needed, consisting of both a properly developed network of connections, transmission and distribution lines as well as an adequate amount of generation capacity. The fundamental task of such a electricity system is to continuously balance the needs of all customers in the country with the production of electricity in power plants for a total of 365 days a year. As the Minister of Energy has recently mentioned in his speech, the current rules on the energy market must undergo a decisive adjustment. It cannot be that when the wind blows and the sun shines, production takes over RES sources, and in addition they receive subsidies for this production, thus pushing out conventional sources. On the other hand, when the wind stops blowing and the sun does not shine, the whole system saves conventional sources that had to stand by before, which resulted in high maintenance costs without any pay. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] The power market is about to provide an appropriate premium, in quotes a bonus, for remaining fully available and ready to produce at a time when RES sources are unable to produce energy. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the fact that the problem of balancing power in the national electricity system after 2020 was diagnosed by the government in good time and that today the Ministry of Energy came out ready to proceed with the draft law by the Sejm. According to the forecasts of the Polish Power Grids of May 2016 near 2020 there is a possibility of a shortage of capacity reserves within the framework of national generation resources. In such a situation, there may be repeated problems that occurred in August 2015 when the 20th level of power was announced in Poland, which means restrictions on the supply and collection of electricity for industrial customers. According to PSE, without the investment required, the shortfalls after 2020 will increase. In the coming years, Poland will be forced to exclude further developed and less efficient power plants also in connection with the European Union's climate policy: the ETS emissions trading system, the restrictive requirements for emission limit values - BAT conclusions, the Minister mentioned this too, and the risks arising from the winter package proposal. In order to recreate the capacity that will be lacking in the national electricity system, new power plants should be built to ensure the supply of energy, whose level of use is increasing with the economic and industrial development of Poland. The current shape of the energy market based on a single commodity market model does not provide sufficient investment resources and impulses in the manufacturing sector in Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Finally, I would like to say that, in the opinion of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, the draft power market law is filling the current electricity gap, which is a worse treatment of conventional power plants, namely those power plants which, in fact, provide us all with continuous stable access to electricity and without which the correct operation of the entire electricity system would be threatened. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the proposed draft law on the power market and is in favour of referring the bill to further work in committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u393	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Czerwiński, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u394	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! The importance of the problem is also demonstrated by the fact that we have two ministers here. We just had another deputy minister, and there should be some more ministers here, for example. Minister of Infrastructure, who is responsible for innovation, including energy, and several presidents, who also spend money from energy. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I will make a statement on the draft power market law. Dear Minister, I will not focus on details, because in general the power market operates in several countries in the world and this is a way of complementing the funding potential where it is lacking and what is difficult to finance. The Commission also makes it clear that this is applied when necessary, and it is the role of the requesting State to prove that this is necessary. And now we can ask the question: Are we in a situation where we have to reach for this argument? Dear Minister, If we were to compare you with the speeches made by the energy side in 1995 or around that time when the concept of blackout was created, when they claimed that without additional measures to burden the market, everything would fall apart in the system... After all, now we're using the same arguments, just living in a slightly different situation. Two years ago, we completed a phase in the construction of the energy market. It didn't just happen, because we worked together, we discussed for dozens of hours with energy consumers, with different associations, also with opposition, we worked on it. We've already solved long-term contracts because of you. The solution to these contracts cost many billion zlotys, but it gave a multi-billion-dollar benefit: it gained more than 20 billion because it focused on the solution. The price of energy - anyone who receives the bill can check it: over the last three years our governments have been decreasing the price of energy. This is the work of those years. We have stabilized the operator - a special law on URE, which guarantees that it is not the policy that controls prices. What do we have now, these two years? Additional costs to the bill: RES fee, transitional fee, slightly different, but also a substitute fee. These are the factors that have burdened every customer, every entity in the energy market. And that's a fact you don't argue with. What are we doing? Do we have an extra one now? This market that was so carefully built... You say you need to turn him into a two-man. And now the power market is an additional tax. If I'm going to say why we should take this off the table right now, I'm going to say why: because there are other ways to get to the market, to protect the consumer, to protect the recipient, not to act under the dictation of energy companies. I can understand that many billion zlotys, 2.5 billion zlotys, to mining, to the foundation, to the electromobility. These are specific numbers. And these companies are talking now: give me back, because I'm short on payouts, on certain things, etc. But we can say enough, it's not like that, because wait for it to be necessary. Why don't we work on energy efficiency? Why don't we work on the demand management? Why don't we work on a partnership cross-border exchange? Why can't we go back to the optimal non-burdening audiences? Why stealth talk about going back to nuclear power plants, smart grids, gas, etc.? I have calculated briefly here that very pessimisticly looking at these actions, we can save or cause the market to operate from about 14 to 16 GW of energy, power. It's a measurable thing that's calculated. If we could make this happen with the sources of funding... We can talk about the power market, because it is, it functions, for example. in the UK, only very few people know that there were two to three years earlier discussions on this subject, and then the conditions of the power market were negotiated for the next 1.5 years. To conclude my application for a photo of this, to reject it at first reading, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wanted to tell the Minister how much he respects you, you've lost your consumer, you've lost your recipient, you're under the influence of energy companies, and this has nothing to do with the energy market. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u395	Thank you, sir. I would like to speak on behalf of the Kukiz club15, please, Mr Sitarski. I don't see your MP. Therefore, Mrs Monica Rosa, on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u396	Mrs. Marshalkini! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! 26,9 net billion PLN - so much according to the impact assessment of this draft law will cost the power market only by 2027. How much will business customers pay, non-energy-intensive industries, how much will households pay, how many units of local government? And here I answer: PLN 15 billion, PLN 7 billion, PLN 920 million when it comes to JST. The question is, how much more of each of us's bills are gonna go up. The power market is to be part of the state's energy policy, only that the PiS does not have such an energy policy. Next, the question remains, what will the energy market in Poland look like after the introduction of the power market. Is this supposed to be a carbon-based market, a gas market, a nuclear market, or maybe a renewable market, even though there is a huge doubt here? To this day, we don't know what the energy mix is supposed to look like. And this is not about some distant future of 2030. We are talking here about 2020 and the following years. We can only conclude from the Minister's speeches and from the bill's proposal that we will have a wave of investment, but their aim will be to save coal energy. And rescue is here a word perfectly describing the situation in which we are in. The vision of blackout in Polish energy is no longer just a question of how and for how to produce, but whether we have how to produce. In this context, I understand the power market as the last resort to energy. This is such a forward run, but this is a forward run by a trashed car in which we install GPS and a tablet, change the gearbox, and we will pretend that this is a modern car, and we will stand in a race with the countries of the European Union, the countries of Europe, only that soon we won't even leave the garage, not to mention that we won't go a little further. Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister spoke about the fact that we pay to RES, but let us remind you that in 1990 and 2016 we paid PLN 230 billion to coal-based mining. So let's keep that in mind. This law imposes further charges. He only applies these charges to fill holes in available energy blocks. She won't talk about investments, renewable energy sources, she won't talk about innovation, she won't talk about energy efficiency, she'll talk about demand management. The power market in this law is a very short-sighted proposal, makes Poland dependent on imports of coal, which is already growing, and will not protect us from the shortage of demand, i.e. during the summer, when energy demand is rising and coal power plants often have a problem with cooling. Modern wants to talk about what goals are, not just what resources are. Because, yes, we all care about energy security, but based on modern energy, and energy based only on coal is not such a safe energy. Once it was possible to listen in the corridors of the Ministry of Energy with modern architecture, only that the power market requires a comprehensive approach that will take into account the shape of the energy market in the European Union, the issues of adopted BAT conclusions or even Brexit. Looking at the energy sector without a RES agreement on gas energy whether in electricity or in electromobility it's just cardboard, it's not architecture. I therefore request that this project be rejected at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u397	Thank you, Member. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak spoke on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u398	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! The topic we are discussing today is very important and important because of the development of our economy and the functioning of society, the functioning of every household. But what we're dealing with today is this sudden rescue -- threatened by blackout, we're doing everything we can to make sure that doesn't happen, so let's pump the money where we can, as far as we can, so that we don't run out of electricity for the next few years. However, there is no vision here that solves the problem for longer, because the coal issue will end at some time. Today we have problems with coal, many coals we bring from different countries, including Russia, and the question is born: What, in 20 years we will only bring back coal from Russia as we lack coal, and we will say that we have energy independence? Because we're going towards energy independence. So is this gonna be our energy source? That's the first question. Secondly, new technologies are growing faster today. If we invest human money - because citizens will pay - in old coal-based power plants of non-Polish origin, then this is nonsense. This really is nonsense. We just need to start with a vision of what we expect, a mix of energy, which we're going to generate electricity from in the future, and we're going to have a serious conversation about this with everyone. There is no such controversy: because RES is expensive, because RES is expensive, we only hear that RES is expensive. This is nonsense. Maybe the RES is cheap, because in the middle of summer, when the sun is the one that bothers us the most. And you have to cool all the objects, that's what the RES is the cheapest, because then it's the biggest radiation, you can 100% Use it and we already have a reserve. It's a simple solution. There may be some algorithm, some support here, so that those who install refrigeration equipment in their companies, in their plants, have preferences in using - because that's when it's rational use - of RES support. Today, if we compare, coal is more expensive. Let us not say that RES is more expensive and then we will think about introducing it if it is cheaper. We need to start with a vision, really, because time is running inexorably, while energy is not planning for a year, for two years. This is planning for decades, because we build a power plant for several years, and then we have to use it for several decades so that it turns to us and that the price for electricity is rational. On the other hand, we must also consider the consumer and the entrepreneur who will benefit from this energy, will it not be a homicide in the future, because if we come to withdraw from our expenditures, close down, but in 15 years we will come to the conclusion that there is no longer sense for a given energy block to be maintained, then the question is, What next? We will need to invest quickly in modernity, progress, the one that goes, the one that brings the world to us. Mr Czerwiński spoke about these reserves. First of all, it's about rational use of the energy we have. There are many possibilities - the creation of a whole system, daily tariffs, night tariffs. It's not the time right now, because we're running out of time to develop these topics, but the possibilities are huge. There are huge possibilities and reserves here. The point is to use the reserves we have. So you can't support a project that doesn't have a vision, because when it comes to energy, it's going to pass one government, it's going to pass the other, but the third government that's going to have huge problems, and then you're going to have to pay for that energy. And I don't think any of us would expect that. That's why you can't be so emotional around here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And we're gonna have a great project at last, and next year we're gonna run out of electricity because it's a short path. We're not gonna support a project like this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u399	Thank you very much. Mr Ireneusz Gaina, the Free and Solidarni Members' Circle. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u400	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft power market law. We are in favour of an evolutionary transformation of the Polish electricity system, which we believe should move towards a distributed system, i.e. a system that is environmentally friendly and ensures greater security of electricity supply. The Capacity Market Act may be an important instrument to strengthen the desired direction of change, but it must contain the necessary instruments that will allow the process of creating a decentralised system to be liberated. Therefore, in our view, it is necessary to introduce changes in the draft law which will prevent market concentration and monopolization. In order for the entry into force of the Capacity Market Act to result in the development of a distributed energy system, there should be a reduction of the upper power limit of the production units benefiting from support to a level, say, for example. 50 MW. This will enable the launch of a causal chain that will lead the Polish industry on the Internet of Things and towards efficient power systems managed by artificial intelligence. This will allow the Polish industry to gain a lasting competitive advantage and prevent the periphery of the Polish industrial area. This will be a real completion of the strategy for responsible development of the Deputy Prime Minister of Finance and Development of Mateusz Morawiecki, which aims to break the middle development trap and reindustrialise Polish industry. The adoption of such a direction as the main one in the Power Market Act will allow to launch a process of building a competitive cost-effective, safe for security of supply and green civic energy, where every entrepreneur and every prosumer will have an impact on optimization in terms of energy comfort of their environment of doing business, residence and work. In addition, in this case, independent investors in the energy and industrial sectors can be expected to be active, who will use their financial resources to strengthen the process of reindustrialisation of the country. The law should therefore be considerably simplified and should not contain far-reaching authorisations for implementing bodies because of the need to ensure the stability of the rules over a longer period of time, which is necessary for the formulation of investment incentives. Thus, the Constitution's provision of State security for citizens, including energy security, can be implemented through the formulation of a doctrine of energy security, which will be based on the protection of citizens from large monopolistic organisations. It is also important to bear in mind the EU proposals contained in the winter package, CO2 emissions regulations and BAT recommendations. Dear Minister, The decentralised and distributed generation power market supported by smart real-time markets is in the way of thinking and even ahead of the innovative thinking of Brussels bureaucrats. In addition, small and medium-sized cogeneration installations based on clean coal technologies cooperating with renewable energy sources within the framework of the so-called. hybrid power plants would allow to build modern local thermal energy and generation of electricity, which would also result in the elimination of smog in Poland. If Poles are to rebuild the country's energy potential at 30 GW by charging additional capacity to the power market, it will be a modern distributed energy that meets the requirements of the BAT Directives, including CO2 emission charges and the proposals of the winter package, rather than the one that consolidates inefficient monopolistic structures that hinder the implementation of the Responsible Development Strategy. The power market is today needed by the Polish economy, but it is already necessary to say loudly and decisively that it is only a stage, even a short stage in the pursuit of a modern energy system understood as a electricity market settled on real-time tariffs. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, I request that the bill be directed to further work in the Committee on Energy and the Treasury. I think that at this stage this project needs to be further refined, and in the Energy and Treasury Committee we will try to ensure that it is optimally shaped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u401	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, a non-associated Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u402	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! In August 2015, a memorable August, we faced an unprecedented situation in the Polish energy sector. Restrictions on the supply of electricity to industry have been introduced. This happened for the first time since Polish freedom and reminded us of the times of the Polish People's Republic, when the situation in which the 20th degree and even lower levels of power were announced was on the agenda. This cannot happen again. It shows the very poor condition of our manufacturing sector. Let me remind you that over 50% of our manufacturing capacity comes from the 1960s and 1970s. Last century. These are very old installations characterized by low efficiency and, which is worse in the current situation of the sector, low flexibility. They cannot be managed freely. How can we solve this problem? There are probably a few possibilities to meet these challenges to meet these challenges. One of these possibilities is the power market. As my previous speakers said, this system is used in several European countries. I merely remind you, Minister, that we are in a very similar situation several years ago, in a situation where the sector needs to be modernised for environmental reasons, they have introduced a system that also raised doubts about the system of long-term contracts. It took us a lot of time to get out of this system, cost us a dozen billion zlotys, and it didn't end well. Will that be the case with the power market system? He will, of course, charge, just as long-term contracts, like the exit from long-term contracts, final customers, all of us, the Polish industry. You can think about bearing these costs, but under two conditions, and I want to emphasize these conditions very much, I want to draw them out strongly. Firstly, this system must lead us to a profound modernisation, a transformation of the Polish energy sector towards a sector that will enable adoption, which will enable the adaptation of distributed energy sources. A lot of the previous speakers talked about it. This is absolutely necessary today. We have to bet on these distributed energy sources, they have to fill in our energy mix an essential part. I am thinking, above all, of photovoltaics and offshore wind farms - offshore farms, which have much greater stability. The second condition that I would impose on this system is the development of Polish industry. This system, if it is to cost us so much money, must be an impulse for the development of the Polish manufacturing industry. Already today, Polish companies produce photovoltaic sets. Many of them are very modern sets that are successfully sold in other European countries. So there's space here. As far as offshore wind farms are concerned, our companies aren't without a chance either. They don't produce 100% whole installations, but the number of these installations can be created in Poland. To sum up, if we decide to impose such a very serious burden on consumers, industry, households, we need to be of great benefit as a country, to succeed in the use of this system both for the development of energy, especially the distributed one, and for the development of the economy of the country as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u403	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Sitarski of the Kukiz club15 did not present himself to the end on behalf of the clubs, so we move on to the questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the list? I can't hear you, so I'm closing the list. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform Club begins. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u404	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister, is it not hypocritical by the Government of Law and Justice that the dust has not yet fallen after the billboard event related to the Polish National Foundation, in which only three Polish energy companies have paid the amount of PLN 42 million, and you are offering citizens an increase in electricity prices and pulling out the amount of PLN 27 billion out of their pockets, explaining this need to modernise Polish energy? I have the following questions: How much will household electricity bills increase after the entry into force of this law? What guarantee will you give the Minister and the Government of Law and Justice that instead of going to rebuild the production capacity of Polish power plants, this money will not serve to realise the party interests of Law and Justice? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u405	Thank you. Mr Jan Warzecha from the Law and Justice Club asked in writing and will therefore be handed over to the Minister. And now I will ask Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Platform Club, to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u406	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! The Power Market Act is supposed to be a tool for energy policy, and it should sound clearly from this stand, but if there is a tool and there is no policy, then I don't know why we are debating it today. Minister, first the tool, then the idea? I guess the other way around, first the idea, first the project, then the realization. There is no way to assess it, because there is nothing to refer to, no one knows what this realization will look like. Minister, I have this question: How will this mechanism affect the price for the consumer, and how will it affect the price for the entrepreneur, determining the competitiveness of the Polish industry? Because it's very important today, because we're all gonna pay that tax. How will the Minister refer to the opinion of the UOKiK, which, with regard to the draft law, says that this fee is of a nature [[♪ The bell ♪]] Pro-tax? What does the Minister say? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u407	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u408	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! In fact, on the example of ZE PAK. What's the power market for ZE PAK? First, to finance the renovation of the old 200 megawatt power blocks, second, to ensure the cost-effectiveness of the production of brown coal electricity by power plants. How will the Power Market Act meet these two needs? In the light of the government's approval of the 550 g/kWh CO2 emission index, will the power market be able to be used for ZE PAK? It is clear that it is not, even if the government obtains the European Commission's consent to the derogation of this indicator. And if you do not get, which is almost certain, if you see the ineffectiveness of the government in the European Union, then a 5-year or even 20-year derogation will not do anything to ZE PAK, because potential renovation investments last up to 3 years, which will cause them to be insolvent, and besides the lack of government decision on the new discovery specifically causes ZE PAK to lose fuel and the amount of time it takes to operate dramatically, thus even 20-year derogation [[♪ The bell ♪]] doesn't matter to a power plant without fuel. Minister, the question is: What the power market in the shape proposed by the government will give ZE PAK and whether it will save 7% The country's energy? Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u409	Thank you. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u410	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The cheapest way to reduce energy costs is to increase energy efficiency. So I have a question: Why doesn't the government go on this path, modernising energy, just giving in to energy companies that are most likely to dig into old positions and do not take up cost reduction challenges? Minister, why the draft law on the power market only introduces Comfort for energy companies and a state agency charging power charges and pushing the citizen, the final recipient to the background? And finally, after two years of your government, why do we still have no energy policy, or energy mix? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u411	Thank you very much. And Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u412	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As everyone knows, the European Commission leaves decisions on the energy market in the hands of individual countries. It interferes solely with the assessment of justified or unjustified State aid. There is no doubt, however, that the law under discussion today is public aid, but for us here in the Chamber, there is no doubt. Does the Polish government already negotiate or have information on the European Commission's opinion on the bill presented today? Does the government realise that the experience we have here, in similar cases, shows that the negotiation process so-called. notifications last at least 1.5 years, but in cases previously discussed and prepared? In other cases, this process may take years. Therefore, I have a question: Do you realize the government of Beata Szydło and your ministry? What do you say? However, do you plan to completely ignore the position of the European Commission? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u413	Thank you. Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform Club. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u414	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the campaign you said you would listen to Poles. As you have stopped listening to them, we will be reminding you of certain things that we hear from our constituents at many meetings. Ladies and gentlemen! You're actually introducing a new tax, which is a power charge. My constituents are specifically asking, first of all, why. That's what they know because there's no money in the budget. We were supposed to take care of the air, we were growing smog, antismog law as it wasn't, there isn't, and the state is still investing in old technologies instead of investing in RES, in order to improve the health of Poles instead of killing Poles. What some people laughed very much about when I spoke from this speaker, today we know that 50,000. Poles die only because of smog. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Instead of saving, instead of investing in renewable sources, we are introducing a new tax for Poles, contrary to the European Commission's position. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u415	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Matusiak, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u416	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is clear that this debate is of interest, because I have also seen shadow ministers here in addition to ministers. They have already come out of the shadows and will certainly benefit from this debate. But I have a question for Minister Tchórzewski: Did the Minister, by including the Ministry, have in his drawer a programme prepared by his predecessors, a strategy for energy, for energy? How much does renewable energy cost us, and how much does conventional energy cost us? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[You've been working all these years and you don't know?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u417	Thank you. And Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u418	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The purpose of the Capacity Market Act is to prevent capacity shortages, i.e. to remodel the regulatory environment of the electricity market in such a way as to create economic incentives to build, maintain, modernise generation units, and manage energy consumption and make demand more flexible for consumers. Minister! In the interest of the audience, I have a question: Who will watch over the amount of the power charge, so that it actually is low and is for the household a few zlotys per month? How would electricity prices evolve without the power market? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u419	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Malik, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u420	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! Many questions are raised in connection with the bill discussed here today, including: I would like to ask how the power market affects the competitiveness of the Polish energy-intensive industry, which is currently suffering, as we know, very high operating costs. An important question is also how this law will affect the development of RES. I think a lot of people would like to ask that. How are electricity systems balancing in other European countries today? Is the proposed regulation based on any experience from other countries in this matter? And one more question about this power charge. We'd like to know where that fee is going to go, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which will be submitted to the final recipients. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u421	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Kubiak, the Law and Justice Club, will ask another question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u422	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! There is no doubt that Polish energy needs new instruments. The power market is an instrument to guarantee the sustainability of deliveries to individual customers and entrepreneurs. That's what experts talk about, that's what the CEOs of the biggest companies talk about. The president of the Polish Energy Group Henryk Baranowski spoke about this at the last economic summit in Siedlce. The power market is expected to generate measures to modernise and build new production units. I would like to ask how the power market will affect the proverbial ordinary Kowalski, whether these costs will increase in his case, and if they increase, will it not be so that in the long term these charges will be lower, even if we bear lower costs [[♪ The bell ♪]] related to energy shortages or due to energy interruptions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u423	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, the Modern Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u424	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Ministry of Energy says that the draft power market law is intended to promote competition, but unfortunately it will not. This project will close the market because those entities that will win auctions for power contracts will have a privileged position on the market. Isn't the Ministry still afraid of reducing competition in the energy market in Poland and strengthening the position of energy companies? We would like to know a specific detailed plan in which capacities and when we will invest. The impact assessment states that the power market will cost PLN 26,9 billion net by 2027. Is this the full cost of this project? What's the gross cost? How much more will it take to keep power in the system? And the most important question: How much will the electricity go for the average Polish citizen? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u425	Thank you, sir. The next question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u426	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Prof. Jan Popczyk, an outstanding specialist in the field of electricity, wrote about the project: The Power Market Act is the most suicidal act in the sphere of the real economy after 1989. Billion-dollar investments for the full risk and cost of Poles and Poland, but without the risk for electricity, are utopia. Apart from Polish companies, only foreign suppliers who are willing to sell their already indeductible technologies to Poland will earn. Minister! Why does the government want to force Poles, small and medium-sized enterprises, local governments to continue to pay for the obsolete system instead of investing in solutions that will support the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises and the development of agricultural areas? Why does the government want to subsidise outdated coal energy rather than invest in smart supply and demand management and expand renewable energy sources and reduce energy consumption? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister! One more question. The UK introduced a power market. It was thought that it would stimulate new investments. This was not achieved, while the cost for the recipients was huge. Why should this act be different? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u427	Thank you. Mrs Monika Rosa, Modern Club. Here's another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u428	Mrs. Marshalkini! Gentlemen of Ministers! I imagined that, when you went to the elections, you had not only a briefcase full of laws, it was still a vision of how the Polish energy market should look, i.e. an energy strategy, an energy policy, any other word we would use, but for the past two years in committee, we cannot ask the question of what energy mix, what energy policy. I will therefore repeat this question over and over again, Minister. What energy policy? What energy mix? Why do we need tools if we don't know what our goal is? What do we have in the power market? One more question: Will the power market ensure security of energy supply during the summer period, when air conditioning consumes very much energy in buildings, in companies, in homes, while power plants have a problem with cooling? Wouldn't it be better to invest this huge amount of money in photovoltaics? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u429	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u430	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Today we are talking about the power market, and we are not really talking about the market or the power, because it is not about the market in this law. It's more of a consolidation of the monoculture of archaic solutions. And it is not about power, because it is rather an image of infirmity, and it is infirm after night, because in the day you did not have, as originally planned, courage to look Poles in the eyes. Because it's another racket for Poles, because only in this way, the racket taken from Poles, you want to heal this infirmity. You don't buy solutions like that. I wish you true power and true clarity in the proposed solution, because the truth is that you are offering a blind diagnostic tool, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Which you didn't do, and neither did the strategy that you're not proposing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u431	Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u432	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! At night with power, right? It's good, but we don't lack that power yet. I think that the debate we are having is not about what is going to happen this year, what is going to happen next year. This is a debate about the future of Poland, Polish energy. Not even what's gonna be 10 years from now, because we should be interested in what's gonna be 20, 30, 50 years from now, and that's the vision of energy. This discussion should be serious, you should see all the aspects that will happen. 2009 - the energy development programme was, but progress is so great, look that this needs to be modified. A new vision should be here right now. What happens if the winter package, 550 g/kWh, comes in and virtually no power plant of ours meets these conditions? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Question: "Will it turn out in 10 years that money has been thrown into the mud and someone will have to, I don't know what, make another innovation so that we don't run out of electricity?" That's what I'm proposing right now. Next question: At what stage is this prenotice, which you are already carrying out on the basis of these assumptions of the package? Are these real things to be accepted today? Are you even sure about this, because it would take a start, not to discuss whether the electricity will cost so much this year, and next year it will be more expensive or cheaper. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u433	Thank you. Mr Piotr Cieślinski, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u434	Dear Marshal! Minister! First of all, I would like to congratulate you on the inclusion of the power market law in the agenda. I hope that the PiS is able to make European Union amendments without more perturbation and that the bill will soon be passed. The last time was great chaos in Polish energy. I would like to ask: How are you going to convince entrepreneurs, investors that the Polish power market is worth their money, investments, and the macroeconomic conditions are stable? I am also forced to show your hypocrisy, my dear country, because according to expert calculations, the power market will not be cheap. How, then, will you explain to Poles, Minister, that a rich energy-intensive industry will pay PLN 2 billion for the creation of this market, while households will pay PLN 7 billion? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The power market is above all an opportunity for our coal power plants. After the introduction of the winter package, unfortunately, they will not be able to participate in it. How are you going to prevent this? Is the power market in its present form supposed to be a rescue for coal, or is it the first step to transform Poland into nuclear energy? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u435	Thank you. Mrs Teresa Glenc, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u436	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There is no doubt that the introduction of the Capacity Market Act will prevent capacity shortages and create economic incentives for energy entrepreneurs to build new power blocks and maintain and modernise existing power plants. This will also affect the rational use of energy by end-users. I have a question for the Minister. Since when will a new item called the power charge appear on the recipients' accounts? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u437	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, non-attached Member. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u438	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Although the Ministry has not presented a comprehensive document on the energy policy strategy, I understand that such analyses are being carried out in the Ministry. I would like to ask for such a rapid presentation of the results of these analyses in three areas, which I consider to be very forward-looking for our system. The first area is cogeneration. According to such very careful analyses in this area we can count on at least a few - it is said to be 8 and 9 - gigawatts of power, which we can generate very easily, after all we have one of the largest heating networks in Europe. The second area I want to ask you is offshore wind power. She could be our specialty, she could be our field where we can specialize. Here, too, we're talking about a few. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Power gigawatts. Finally, the third area is photovoltaics. Here Poles have a great tendency to invest. They need to be able to make such investments. Perhaps, Minister, there's not enough room for those projects you've been talking about in a lot of interviews lately. I'm thinking nuclear power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u439	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Biernat, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u440	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My first question: Is there a problem with the balance of power, with security of power in peak periods only in Poland or in other countries of the European Union, this problem also exists? Here, the Minister - my second question - has only signalled it, but isn't it that today consumers paying electricity bills, i.e. households, establishments, are already making hidden payments for the power of the power plant? If such charges are - this is my second question - what will happen when the power market law is introduced? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u441	Thank you. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u442	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Power Market Act is a very good law that will introduce regulations that are actually delayed in relation to other countries of the European Union. Here's a question for the Minister. Since when will it apply? Does it include energy cogeneration? From this point on, I would like to thank you on behalf of the innovative economy, Minister, for the legislation and legislation on the power market that is expected and needed, because this sector of the economy wants to develop. Ladies and gentlemen! May the power be with us, and the opposition, which is on the dark side of the power, wish us a transition to the bright one. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: To the green side of the power.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u443	Mr Andrzej Czerwiński, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u444	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask you a question and ask you to answer it in writing. It's not about us discussing things right now. You know exactly what I'm gonna ask, and you're probably gonna say it, but I wanted some of the Members asking to have written material. I want to ask you about energy policy because we all know that energy policy is in place. It has been for many, many years, specifically since 2002. The elements of energy policy are annexes. One of these annexes is the energy balance of the country which should be adopted and the next, a set of implementing acts is important. That's an element. There are two additional attachments. The question is simple. Does the government have a verified policy and does it have a set of existing laws [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are you ready for implementation? When will this energy balance be verified? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u445	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u446	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Ministry of Energy has been on a road that is dangerous to the national economy since the beginning. The point is that the leading electricity will be produced from coal. Minister, this is a very great danger. The dependence on coal, in particular external ones, will have a great impact on the national economy. Minister! I have a question. How much coal are we going to import, and what financial resources are we going to use to import coal? What countries will we import coal from - in particular Russia - in the years 2018 and 202025? Please answer in writing, Minister. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u447	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Zubowski, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u448	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I see here great concern from the parliamentary opposition, which is trying as best as possible to bring us closer to the problems of Polish energy. Minister, I wanted to ask you if our energy system wouldn't have been in better shape if our predecessors hadn't given up, for example. from the project to build a power plant in Ostrołęka, whether our energy system would not be in a better position if we had what was promised in 2009, it is about Mr Tusk, in 2018 or 2019 an operating nuclear power plant, or our energy system would not have been better if certain decisions, such as those concerning geothermals in Toruń, had not been made for political reasons, as Mr Piechociński said. [[Applause]] Minister, one more question, because I see here a great deal of concern for renewable energy sources. Please tell us clearly whether those who produce energy from renewable energy sources will be able to participate in auctions, will be able to start in this system and will be able to run like others, like those who produce energy from conventional sources, [[♪ The bell ♪]] provide this power as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u449	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz club15. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u450	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Minister a question. Is it true that the readiness of energy blocks, conventional energy also based on coal and the work of these energy blocks will stabilise unstable, weather dependent energy based on RES? I would also like to ask a second question about the energy security of the country in connection with the Power Market Act. We need to think about how long previous governments have been looking for a location for nuclear energy, which has not yet been clarified. On other issues: Why is the issue of coal raised so much when one of the scientific authorities stated that in 10 years time coal will run out in Poland? It's a psychic at all. [[It's already missing.]] But why there's a shortage of coal, who's stopped [[♪ The bell ♪]] Operational fronts and how long will these fronts have to be rebuilt so that we are sovereign and energy independent? Thank you very much. [[It takes ten years to wait, because it's gone...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u451	Thank you very much. Mr Wiesław Krajewski, a club called Law and Justice, put in writing a question that will be referred to the Minister. I ask you to answer the questions asked by Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski, Minister of Energy. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u452	There's a lot of questions. I'll at least try to answer some of them in part. If there's a shortage somewhere, please pay attention. This is where the team and I recorded it, but... So here's the thing: Mr... now I'm looking at it one by one, just one second... Now. [[He's supposed to answer, not tell who.]] Good. Every Member will find himself. Mr Gryglas. There must be a deep reorganisation to use renewable energy sources. As far as the power market is concerned, several times the question arises as to whether renewable energy sources can start, participate in the power market. The basic principle with regard to notification cases is that public aid cannot be granted twice. We say that the power market is not a form of state aid, the European Commission says it is, and therefore we must accept it. Since the power market is a form of public aid, if renewable energy sources in the auction or earlier, as regards certificates, receive public aid, they cannot benefit from state aid again. There was a question about photovoltaics. If the owner of photovoltaic panels, let's say, an entrepreneur who will already have photovoltaic fields, chooses not to run for auction under public aid, he may as much as possible take part in the power market. Public aid can only be granted once here. It's a general statement. The second point concerns the use of renewable energy sources in the power market. Here, when it comes to Mr Bańkowski, given the subject of today's meeting, I do not want to get involved in deeper political matters. What is hypocrisy and what is not is always our feeling. On the other hand, I would like to stress one thing about your question: power market charges cannot be used for any other purpose, but for the purposes of the power market, because they cannot constitute revenue for the state budget. This is clearly emphasized and clear. simply from the principles adopted in this law, and these principles are also the result of the European Commission's attention to these issues. Mr Gadowski - I agree that this law is also one of the tools of energy policy, by all means. This is the case, but this is how we can build a new energy policy to the end, because it is an energy policy by 2030, which was adopted in 2009, which is in full force, and it is not particularly clear that we are leaving this policy. However, in order to clarify it, a completely different form of arrangement with the European Commission is needed in relation to 2009. The European Commission's rules have changed in this area, so a new energy policy must indeed be adopted in this area. I would also like to stress that this fee is not a tax and, secondly, that it is a distinction and not a new levy, so let's see. I will refer to Mr Nowak, who spoke about the PAK, about the auctions. We are to determine what we accept in the bill, so the first auction will be in the second half of next year. These auctions will therefore have nothing to do with standard 550 because it will not enter into force by then. If someone in the power market exists on the basis of the old rules, then during the period during which the contract was signed, this will apply according to the previous rules. So when it comes to PAK, you have to keep an eye on the first auction and just hurry to get into it. [[I'm sure he'll lose, we all know that.]] [[Voice from the hall: For 5 years, he will be granted permission.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u453	Gentlemen, the time for discussion will be on the committee if the motion for rejection is lost and not now. Now let the minister answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u454	Of course, we will probably be discussing this in the subcommittee for a long time. As far as Mrs Nykiel is concerned, why the power market project creates comfort for companies and only a fee and cost for the recipient, it is a question of the type that the power market is actually targeted, created under the recipient, so that companies can build new power plants and that they can provide a reserve of power for renewable energy so that we can enter renewable energy. But in order to enter with renewable energy, we need to have a power market. So that, practically speaking, at this point it is about energy stability and security, so this is more for the recipient. In addition to the power market itself, we are also introducing new solutions required by the European Commission, i.e. the DSRs, which allow very large consumers to take money for not receiving electricity at any time. So that also creates a good chance and already shows a lot of interest today, because as part of the trial DSRs used by PSE, there are already several hundred megawatts entering this. This part will also be very important for the power market. If we are to say - there was a discussion from Mrs Kołodziej - whether it is public aid or not, I have already stated that there was a disagreement, but the Commission has made it clear that it is public aid, and we are simply adapting to it, which is why the process of prenotifying the power market has been underway for more than a year. At the beginning of the European Commission, we presented the assumptions to the power market only when the general assumptions were initially accepted, there was work on the law. The point was not to get ahead of it, so that the European Commission would keep up with what we are doing and what we are preparing to make it easier to get home from the end. Mrs Gądek said we were supposed to listen to Poles. We listen to them, yes, I want to make this clear. We listen to them and we just want to give them the opportunity for full economic development, we want to ensure that the demand for power is met, which - as we should estimate - will increase around 2%. per year. So all these things, which are extremely necessary from an economic point of view, need to be adopted from the power market. We will find it difficult to provide some electricity for businesses, for the functioning of households, for the stability of energy supply. So all that we do is also related to providing what is needed for Poles. And it is not - again I stress - a new tax, it is not the income of the State Treasury, but it is a specific special levy, which is distinguished from the previous ones. The power charge is not addressed to the budget, so the State has no possibility of using the funds for another purpose. We're talking about smog. The problem of smog is very serious, but from the point of view of reaction, let us remember that, apart from some places in the country, smog in cities has essentially its source in us, citizens, but when it's very cold, they use cars when it's very hot, too, to have a more comfortable life. Because of that, when there's a weaker wind... But it's more car smog than carbon, let's remember that. In some places, yes, but where it is, where everything works normally. Smog is very big in Warsaw. I will say that within a large radius of the center of Warsaw, the cultural palace, within a 3 km radius of the center there is not a single coal chimney, and there are only a few gas, and small ones. Smog exists. It's a very big smog. [[In Warsaw, it's an exception, Minister.]] Please? [[It's an exception.]] That confirms a rule. That's just the way it is. We have a problem that is already decreasing in many localities, because poorer citizens who in previous years have smoked garbage, rags brought from the West, poured oil, etc., old shoes, because they couldn't afford it if they had gas furnaces to pay the gas bill, today they start heating up the gas. It's clear now. So state aid, even in the formula of our family support program 500+, has consequences for poorer families who have pathological individuals, etc., who do not work for their families. It also shifts to emissions, as you can see, very clearly. Because if people cannot afford anything, neither with sanctions nor with penalties imposed by the European Union will we do nothing. If each of us looks around, looks around the neighborhoods in his constituency, he'll see where they smoke the most out of the chimneys, and so I'll tell you where the worst waste is burned. Where people are poorest. Where people find it the hardest. In the European Union's 2016 statistics it is clear that in Poland the sphere of poverty - actually poverty no longer exists - has decreased from almost 30% to 10%. So you can clearly see what this involves. So that these are some things that we just sometimes don't notice, and you have to notice them. Mr Truskalski... [[Strawberry.]] Please? [[Strawberry.]] Strawberry. I'm really sorry. I took a quick note. PLN 26,9 billion by 2029 That's respect. Auctions will show how much it costs. But I would also like to add, since it was mentioned here at some moments about the cost of introducing the power market, that research has shown - it is also in our estimated costs as a result of regulation - that by 2035, the sum of positive effects from the power market could amount to more than PLN 50 billion. This is also the other side of ensuring the transition from one-track to two-track. This is a lower investment risk. The introduction of the market will reduce the cost of raising capital for investments which are currently treated as very high risk investments. So there's a number of different things, and there's positive things that come out of it. Mr Suchoń asked if we were investing in an outdated carbon system and renewable energy sources. That is why this public aid has been applied continuously since the beginning to renewable energy sources, which costs a great deal for this market to develop, as it is throughout the European Union. And here there is no question that we should go away from renewable energy sources, because we simply cannot leave them because of our agreements with the European Commission. We are in the European Union. If we are talking about the UK, I would like to stress that our drafting team has examined very carefully everything that has been going on in countries that have already put in place a power market, like the UK, and have certainly been drawn from this. Now maybe there are other questions. Mrs Malik here asked how the power market will affect the competitiveness of the Polish industry... [[Energy-intensive.]] ...Polish energy-intensive industry? This is an opportunity for the energy-intensive industry. Firstly, energy-intensive consumers, instead of having problems due to electricity interruptions - these interruptions occur due to the way they receive electricity, it is very expensive for them - they will be able to start in power auctions and thus fully act as an active customer. And here on their side you can see a great interest in DSRs. The question then was whether the power market would affect the development of renewable energy sources. In fact, we will be able to look calmly at the development of renewable energy sources, because it will be possible to develop these renewable energy sources safely without the negative impact of these sources on the continuity of supply to the final consumer. So in this respect, we can say that from the point of view of threats, the weather conditions will be less affected for us. Mrs Kozanecka asked how electricity prices would evolve without the power market. In order to assess the impact of the regulation, some analyses have been carried out, which indicated that in the absence of a power market, energy costs for the Polish economy will be higher, and more importantly, there will be cyclical interruptions in supply. So the power market will provide stable supplies, but the point is that it is a problem of this type, or even without the power market we are able to do in the coming years... The closest from an energy point of view, because these investments are investments that will be sustainable. The time to build a 500-megawatt plant is 4 years, and the 1000-megawatt power plant - even more than 5 years, so these are long-term capital intensive investments, which is why we need to get out of this earlier. If we contract in 2018, the first fees will appear somewhere in 2021, which is to say that the first functions of the power market will be the first entrepreneurs to secure the power market. So here we are dealing with long-term processes and this is planned for a long-term future. Unfortunately, it's in energy that you have to look to the future, very forward. Mr Biernat asked if there was any hidden payment in today's energy bills for the power plant's available capacity? In Poland, there are already some substitutes for such a power market. The intervention cold reserve and the operational power reserve are in place at the moment. Maybe I can say right now that these are fuses used by Polish Power Grids. Such solutions were introduced several years ago to improve energy security in the functioning of the national energy system. In fact, the programme for active customers, i.e. DSR, is already in place. At present, the total cost of already paid capacity market mechanisms is between 700 and 800 million a year. Mr Kubiak asked what would give the market power to our average citizen. In fact, it gives the citizen the same thing as it gives the entrepreneur. Today, however, energy consumers in households are provided with great comfort, which they are not even aware of. This comfort is that we can turn on the TV, washing machine, refrigerator, laptop, light, etc. in our homes at the same time, etc. and we do not wonder whether the right wind is blowing, whether the sun is shining and whether renewable energy sources produce enough energy for our needs. Clearly, there are indications that there is, however, a problem with the current system. This problem is due to the fact that this energy may begin to run out. For this comfort of functioning and the entrepreneur and the citizen to be able to be preserved, it is precisely the power market that will provide us with the right amount of power that is appropriate to our needs. If we consider... Previously, I talked about power, but there is a concrete calculation of the amount of energy in 2016 compared to 2015. There has been an increase of 2.4% in the amount of energy that is received by citizens and by entrepreneurs. This shows that there is a dynamic development of the country. Previously, at the beginning of 2016, in our initial programme, we increased the forecast from 1% to 1.5%. energy growth per year. Meanwhile, these 2 years, i.e. the years 2016 and 2017, indicate that... From 2015 to 2016 and 2017 and taking into account the results of the third quarter, we can have an increase in electricity consumption close to 5%. If we consider that 5% this is 1/20 of our energy balance, we can realise that just the entire power plant in Poland is facing a huge civilization challenge, because our electricity consumers, also our home, started to benefit more from this energy. This is also the source that gives us the opportunity to invest in the future when it comes to building new energy blocks, entering the power market and ensuring this stability. Such economic symptoms, which are, give the possibility to obtain much cheaper credits in terms of building the entire manufacturing system in Poland... Even looking at the power market, also considering that money from the power market won't secure the construction costs of all power plants... After all, we are supposed to secure the current costs of their operation. Securing the current costs of their operation and repayment of the loan - that's what the power market is for, while investments will have to be financed by current funds. Only external financing, if there is a power market and there is a guarantee to pay for the period of non-resourced electricity, because at the moment there is no such guarantee, it ensures security, much safer lending. And so the money that energy will use to create a power market in the next 20 years, because that's how it's gonna be calculated, is gonna be much cheaper. In the end, it will be much cheaper for citizens than if we were trying to deal with how some suggestions were made, without the power market. If we take a serious look at the country's development, we will take a serious look at our future if we want Poland to grow dynamically, then we have to say that it is real until 2030 - if only we had a level of about. 3%, 2.5-3% GDP growth accepted, and the current years point to more - there will be more than 20% increase in energy consumption. Some signals indicate that he can be up to 25% compared to 2015. And now if we want Poland to develop this way, we need to look to the future responsibly. We can't say we're gonna take our chances, say yes: maybe our energy will do just fine, maybe. After all, it is then known that properly incurred costs will generate much higher electricity prices. The Energy Regulatory Office shall take into account everything, from the point of view of the European Union and its rules, and generally applicable economic regulations. From this point of view, looking responsible for the future, so that we all as citizens of Poland become richer - in my case it is already looking at the younger generation, but I have them in my family - we have to look at the fact that we want our successors to have better living conditions. So from this point of view, the power market is indispensable, this power market must be if we want to look so seriously into the future. I'm looking at the next questions. Energy policy - that's what I've been talking about. We can modify energy policy - the one that exists - or we can create a new policy based on it. If we have the opportunity to make a full notification with the European Commission about how coal works in our energy industry and a certain acceptance of its existence over a number of years, if we get this kind of thing, we get the power market's approval, then we know what pillars we can base our energy policy on, how to look at the future. We can also say that the future is being analyzed at the moment. I am seriously talking to the European Commission about the future. This future is important because the European Commission expects us to define ourselves as Poland, how much coal in energy in the future... It is understood in the European Commission that this coal in our energy industry will still exist, because we just found this Poland. We found it in 1989 with almost a 100 percent share of coal in energy and we can't change it with a snap of fingers. On the other hand, we need to know that in this area, in terms of emission reductions, Poland is in the top three countries of the European Union, in terms of emissions reductions for this year, which we as Poland can regard as a reference point, i.e. 1990 - in terms of emission reductions, even percentage reductions in emissions. But if we're negotiating, we're really looking at it, too, forward. On the one hand, I provide miners, and so conversations with them look at the moment that we will no longer reduce coal consumption in the coming years. Because we have not limited it so far, energy has so far functioned entirely - to the extent it operates - on coal and has coal as a primary source of power, although there are many power plants in Poland, especially power plants, whose power supply is based on coal. But as we look at the future, we set ourselves the goal, which we are initially showing to the European Commission, that what we are looking at with regard to electricity is coming, and we are already looking at 2030, is 23.25% I'm sure it's over 20%. So what we're saying is that we're not going to be reducing the level of energy from coal anymore, we're going to be at the level it's at, but we're going to use other energy sources for what's going to grow. And here's a wide platform. This will give us the opportunity to get in 2050, so to speak, 50/50. Coal energy and 50% It's a different energy. If we're in this situation today, that's 84%. electricity is made of coal, so if we can go down to 50% by 2050, it will be a powerful economic effort. If we want to get, say, a level of 2050 550 in energy in the range of 45 to 50, then by 2050 we need to build at least three large blocks in the range of 4 to 4.5 GW in nuclear power to achieve a reduction in average emissions. The point is that we can show in the European Union that we are looking at the expectations of the European Commission in real terms and forwards. These are decisions of this type: if so, the European Commission therefore asks when the construction of power plants, which will have coal as a source of energy, will be completed in Poland. Since when do you declare? [[Since when?]] That's exactly what we're trying to do. That's exactly what we're looking at. Probably, on the one hand, from the point of view of safeguarding the functioning of mining and economic security of Silesia, on the other hand, looking at the amount of energy that will come into consumption, it can be said that after 2025 we will no longer take any initiatives related to the construction of power plants that would have coal as a primary source. On the other hand, we will build Europe's first coal-gased power plant. In the case of Bogdanka, technical, economic assumptions are already being developed regarding the power plant, which will be gas-powered, but gas will come from coal gasification. This will be regarded as piloting, so it will not yet be based on economic effects. There's one power plant that's got gas-fired coal in Japan, and it's 200 megawatt, so it can't... In this area, we want to be a certain leader in modernity. As it turns out, it's hard to say. But still conventional power plants... If the energy efficiency is increased from 32/33 per cent to 46 per cent, and in some cases it will be close to 49%, this is also a huge reduction in emissions. So we get a huge reduction in emissions due to energy efficiency and the use of modern systems. Everywhere we enter into compliance with BAT requirements. So we're going to get a huge reduction in emissions here too. That's how I look at the questions... The additional question by Mr Gryglas was about cogeneration. At the moment, the cogeneration area due to the adoption of this direction, which I have said, is very open because the cogeneration area gives us the opportunity to use twice, which is a significant increase in energy efficiency. Here, we within cogeneration can easily obtain even within 440 grams per cubic hour, as far as this ratio of 550 is concerned, actually treated as a doctrine. So in this area, cogeneration is our big chance, and we're looking at it with very much hope. I also wanted to address this, because I think that was in Mr Gryglas' question. Some things are getting a little... And the recurring question is whether photovoltaics can and so on. This is clear - the European Commission is of the opinion that two types of state aid cannot be used because it already completely disrupts the market. I still had something here somewhere. Mrs Glenc's question has yet been asked, since a new item called the power charge appears on the recipients' accounts. Speaking of other dates here, I have already said that we assume that the Power Market Act can enter into force from the beginning of 2018. Thus, for the first time, the capacity charge will appear on the recipients' accounts in 2021. There's gonna be time to auction, contract the right... So 2018 will be the time to auction and contract power for 2021. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u455	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u456	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The draft law aims to implement the power market on which the goods will be available, which manufacturers can offer, with remuneration for their willingness to deliver during periods of tight capacity balance, i.e. where there is a risk of meeting the peak power demand of consumers. This is undoubtedly an innovative solution in our legal system. This raises many doubts and questions, especially for consumers and electricity consumers, as to whether electricity charges will increase and if. Are such legal solutions in other European countries?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u457	High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! Minister! On 6 July 2017, a government draft power market law, seymous printing no. 1722 entered the Polish Parliament. The declared purpose of the power market law - according to the statements of the authors - is stable and secure energy supplies, which are to start in force from January 2018. On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I present my position on this project. The document is extensive. The new regulations will determine and set up the organisation of the electricity market and the provision of services in readiness to supply and supply electricity to the electricity system during periods of increased demand for electricity. According to data from the Central Statistical Office, almost 25% of the total expenditure with average monthly expenditure on one person in the household in 2016 constituted housing fees, including use and equipment, energy carriers. The electricity consumption per inhabitant of the city and village in households as at 31 December 2016 is more than 700 GWh. In the final energy consumption structure by energy carrier, based on the 2015 figure, the electricity from the grid represents 17.7% all available sources - from year to year this share is increasing. What do consumers today pay attention to when choosing an energy seller? For the reliability and stability of supplies, the clarity of the contract and the manner in which it is implemented, the price per product and delivery/service. The European Union places a great deal of emphasis on building regional energy markets in Europe. The introduction of the winter package is a challenge that involves changing the economic model to a low-carbon one, with very high demands and commitments to energy. The resolution of the Sejm and the Senate at the beginning of this year on the draft regulation presented by the European Commission and the Council of the European Union on the internal electricity market needs to be recalled. Kukiz'15 opposes attempts to exclude coal power plants from the market. The European Union's competences in the field of climate and European policy are complementary and partner towards our country, not prescriptive and subjective. Kukiz'15 opposes the implementation of the winter package by force. The requirement of the CO2 emission criterion - not more than 550 kg per MWh - as a condition for the share of installations produced in the power market excludes coal energy from the Polish energy mix. Basic question: Where to get funds for multimillion-dollar investments in generation and distribution energy? According to all analyses, there is a need to increase generation capacity and expand networks. In the new energy regulations, considerable emphasis is placed on the principles of tariff contracting. All countries are to increase energy efficiency, the market is to be integrated to ensure security of energy supply. All activities are to be carried out on infrastructure investments, research, development, expenditure on factory staff. The records of the winter package in a privileged place put prosumers of energy consuming, producing, producing energy. This model, let's say, quasi-decentralized based on distributed generation, is to be managed by regional operational centres. Such a formula of distributed responsibility is the cost and risk of losing control of the whole operation. Is the electricity system at this stage of development adapted to the concept of cooperation with micro-installations? Microgeneration includes small water, wind, photovoltaics, solar collectors, biogas plants, biomass energy production, etc. To achieve the objectives of the national action plan, support must be given to Polish energy producers, operators, transmission networks and distributors. Polish Energy Networks critically refer to the regulations of the creation of regional operational centres. Only thoughtful and optimal decisions on the national transmission system provide security, among others. the size of the power reserves, etc. should be the responsibility of the internal operator and the energy regulator. What is the power market? It's a financial support system for power generation. Installations and generation capacity, reserves are intended to ensure availability to demand. The shape of the conditions that we have now is centralist, managed by the state. In view of the transition to electromobility, it is important that the role of the transmission and distribution sector extend beyond the connection and provision of standard services. These companies need to adjust to the market. Technical and economic conditionality taken into account when agreeing on the power market are: possessing the resources of a certain energy medium, developing the capacity to produce energy, ensuring continuous generation of energy, ensuring safety for people, protecting the environment and air cleanness, optimising and economic justification for the solutions used in the construction of an energy source, using technologies that give reasonable investment and exploitation costs that are not harmful to the climate and the consumer. If we put in place a transparent regulatory framework, this will free up the process of implementing innovative technologies, it will determine the development of smart grids. The power market will maintain the trend of competition of the main capital groups in the electricity input. The way of profitability, efficiency and future of conventional energy are investments, cooperation between the mining industry and energy. Strong support for energy will facilitate discussions and involvement in the financing of forward-looking projects. At the moment, the issue of secondary market maintenance appears to be at issue. We propose a simpler and harmonised transaction system. Art. 61 mentions the remuneration for the performance of the capacity obligation for the new and modernised generation market unit, which is reduced by the amount of public aid of an investment nature intended for the construction or modernisation of that unit. Will the remuneration for the performance of the duty be subject to tax on goods and services and income tax? As a result of the adoption of this law, the costs of electricity supply are expected to be reduced as a result of the introduction of the power market. Is it true that the cost of implementing this law will be the most felt by the budgets of households and local government units? After reading chapter 1 of the Act, it is difficult to see which entities will count in energy supply and electricity trading. We would like to know to what extent the actual threat is real, that Poland will swipe the doors of foreign power producers into our domestic market. Can the prosumer market benefit from the introduction of the power market in Poland? New technological solutions need to be modelled and technical solutions put in place for electricity production. New, certain regulations should depend primarily on energy consumers. The new law will introduce major obligations for energy suppliers by imposing new obligations on them and requiring them to cover their needs. Will the new regulations improve the transmission network? What will be the role - with new solutions - of prosumer in the system? How will the new system benefit the energy producer for its own use? The development of traditional energy will continue to be linked to industrial demand, increasing demand for energy, major legal and environmental constraints. Despite many doubts, we are in favour of continuing to proceed with this bill in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u458	The contested law introduces the so-called law in a comprehensive and appropriate manner. the power market, as well as implementing provisions to prevent electricity shortages, which will directly translate into ensuring that citizens have adequate energy security over a longer period of time. Please answer a few questions: 1. Will the executive authority or its representatives have any impact on the development of prices on the energy market and on the power market, vulgo, on the basis of the provisions of the project under discussion, if they consider it necessary, be able to react to drastic price developments in both markets? 2. Has the European Commission given a positive opinion on the draft, i.e. Has the European Commission been notified of the draft power market law? If not, at what stage are negotiations with the Commission on this matter? 3. Has the increase in the share of renewable energy installations in the electricity system as a whole aggravated the problem of ensuring medium-term and long-term security of electricity supply to final customers? If so, has the project developed a system-based solution covering RES issues in this context? 4. Can the implementation of the provisions of the contested law contribute to the increase in the prices of goods and services produced by small and medium-sized enterprises and large non-industrial entrepreneurs, which, according to the impact assessment of the project regulation, will be most heavily charged with the costs of establishing and operating the power market? 5. Do the provisions of this law have to translate into an increase in prices for electricity for consumers, or is it just a possibility that can only arise as a result of auctions that would win higher offers than currently assumed?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u459	A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 25 October this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? I do not see, therefore I close the list of Members who have been made to make statements. I ask Mr Antoni Duda, the Law and Justice Club, to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u460	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! October 16th this year At the age of 80, Dr. Ryszard Kowalczyk, a man of solidarity, a physicist, a great didactician, retired employee of the Institute of Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry at the University of Opole. In 1972 he was sentenced to 25 years in prison, along with his brother Jerzy, who was sentenced to the death penalty, later converted into life imprisonment, in a case which in the annals of history is known as the case of the Kowalskis. On the subject of the event and the process, many articles, studies and several books were created, and I refer to them interested. I'm just gonna say a few words about this. The Academy of Pedagogical Education in Opole was blown up on the night from 5 to 6 October 1971, on the eve of the prepared Academy on the occasion of the 27th anniversary of the Uprising of the Civic Militia and the security authorities of the People's Poland. The authorities there wanted to mark officials pacifying strikes on the Coast in December 1970, and the ceremony itself was supposed to sanction the crime committed, when to peacefully protesting workers, among others. In Gdansk, Elbląg or Szczecin, militiamen shot, as well as troops, killing dozens of them, while many were badly wounded. In one of his interviews, Ryszard Kowalczyk explained the reasons why the brothers decided to blow up the auditorium. The brothers were more concerned with scaring the communist dignitaries and embarrassing them. An explosion that occurred at hours. 0.40, was caused by the detonation of the TNT by electric wires. No one was injured because Jerzy Kowalczyk - contrary to the subsequent accusations of the Polish People's Republic's Prosecutors - carefully checked whether there were any people in the auditorium at the time of the detonation and near it. We gladly and hopefully accepted the next efforts of the independence community to launch the cassation procedure against Richard Kowalczyk, including the initiative of the Minister of Justice Lech Kaczyński, prepared at the request of, among others. The Polish National Remembrance Association and People Repressed in the Polish People's Republic, which took place in 2001 In 2003, the NZS National Commission, together with a group of young councillors from Opole, took the initiative to give Jerzy and Ryszard Kowalczyk honorary citizenship to the city of Opole. In October 2006 in the newly dedicated.Connector of the Opole University of Technology at ul. The Santa Claus exhibition was opened. The Opole road to independence prepared on the 35th anniversary of the actions of the Kowalczyk brothers, that is, blowing up the auditorium of the then Higher Pedagogical School. The second opportunity to prepare the exhibition was 25 years since the announcement of the martial law in Poland. The selection of the material was made by the members of the University of Opole Technical University, and the approval of the authorities allowed the exhibition to be displayed in such a beautiful place. The opening of the exhibition was also an opportunity to meet representatives of the former opposition, and among them there was no shortage of our hero - Mr.Ryszard. On the other hand, at the initiative of Anna Valentynowicz and Andrzej Stara in 2010. Ryszard and Jerzy Kowalczy were honored with a plaque on the Wall of Remembrance at the Monument of the Fallen Shipyards in Gdansk. In September 2016, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) Patrick Jak, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, proposed to the Opolskie voivode to honor the heroic actions of the Kowalczyk brothers. Adrian Czubak, Opole Voivode, approved the idea of Minister Patryk Jakiego to change the name of one of the halls and since 5 October last year the former Golden Hall in the Opole Provincial Office bears the name of the brothers Jerzy and Ryszard Kowalczyk. Yesterday's Holy Mass. in the old chapel at the cemetery in Opole-Półwsi began the funeral of the sleep. Richard Kowalczyk. The funeral ceremony was state-style and the body was asleep. Richard Kowalczyk was placed in the alley of the well-deserved Opole cemetery. An honorary military aide provided 10. The Opole Logistics Brigade. The event was attended by representatives of the highest state and local authorities. On behalf of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda, the Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Dera, spoke. On behalf of the Minister of National Defence, Antoni Macierewicz read the commemorative letter to the Undersecretary of State in MON Mr Wojciech Fałkowski. On behalf of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, Mariusz Błaszczak read the commemorative letter from the Chief of Police in Opole insp. Jarosław Kaleta. On behalf of the Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons of Jan Kasprzyk, Mr Piotr Kolanowski from the Department of Celebration of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons spoke. The ceremony was attended by many residents of Opole and the region, friends and acquaintances of the hero. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u461	Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, the Law and Justice Club, will make another statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u462	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The history of the world knows examples of duels whose memory in the consciousness of people lasts for a long time, even thousands of years, to mention, for example, the mythological duel of Hector and Achilles in ancient Troy or medieval, already real, our Czarny Zawisza from Garbow with John of Aragon. In the world of literature, Alexander Pushkin fought with Georges d'Anthès. For the contemporary, and many of us are fans of sport, for a long time will be remembered, for example, the match of Muhammad Ali with George Foreman in the heart of the Zair jungle, hailed as the rumble in the jungle. For other fans, such a memorable duel is the one who fought the chess players. Vitali Karpov and Garri Kasparov, playing for the world championship. Giant clashes are often called duels for the president of the greatest power in the world - the United States of America, like the last one between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump. However, all these skirmishes will probably be overshadowed by the one before us, and already today referred to as titan clashes, with the participation of political aliens and moon visionaries. These will be star wars on Polish soil. On the one hand, the one who replaced the chariot with Rubikonia, with an extraordinary geographical knowledge expressing the fame of all countries in the world, or one hundred and thirty pairs, and who is aware that, without a doubt, the north, the south, the east and the west are not where we all think they are. It is also a theologian who probably knows not only three names, but even six kings. He is an outstanding historian who is certainly not afraid to go against the current and tells us to locate the bombing of May in 1935, and to call the sejm deaf. The gynecological and obstetrical knowledge should also be added. As a supporter of abortion, he would like to do so between 20 and 30 months, see practical aspects of limiting the possibility of pregnancy, and send boys to a gynecologist. Question: "Women's costume or no women's costume?" Finally, he also clearly has a knack for biotechnologies and genetics, because he can make one out of two ministers. Others have failed to grow a superhuman, so maybe he can make it. And who's the other Titan? A rising star. Inconspicuous, but playful, against Donald Trump braver than the North Korean Kim, and he wouldn't be afraid to hit his opponents with a stick in the head. In the history field, which equals the work to the predecessor and reaches undiscovered sources. He was the first to reveal that the Constitution of May 3 was established in 1971. And he suggests that Jan III Sobieski was already a member of the PiS, because how to justify the statement that desecration of the monument will serve Vienna on a hill Kahlenberg was anti-writing? He's also an expert in foreign policy. There are many experts here, and many of them know very well that these worst foreign ministers are of course from the PiS, and only he knows that the better ones were already in the Polish People's Republic. And Colonel Kuklinski was one of them. And it's modern, too. Without a tablet, he can't live. He's probably even diving with him in the pool. And although maybe all this work doesn't match the former's acquis, it has a powerful asset in its hand. He's a guy on the one hand, but at the same time a lady - party vice-president. Although with moustache, it's been known for a long time: nobody is perfect. The duel is going to be very interesting. It's time to set the sensors to space. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u463	Mrs Anna Cicholska, the Law and Justice Club... Excuse me, Mr Simon Giżyński, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u464	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On the motives of Konstanty Ildefons Gałczyński: A song about three cups. Three dubious beauties, fighting for the people, etc., on a wider wave of water, dreaming their dreams: - Gentlemen, we must fight PiS./ President of PiS - for an encore!/ The fate of the country will be played by us./ We Poland as the power we love./ We will not give it to anyone, the PiS is a nightmare and a hump. And according to the three bellies, the swords will not lay down in their vaginas, that there will be enough flint and humps to make the masses explode like powder-- three little funny people, so famous, so boring... ooh! But life, as the poet says, is a ploy and a wave: when the silver was guided by the planet, three bubs took something away. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u465	Mrs Anna Cicholska, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u466	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Cardinal. Aleksander Kakowski is the great son of the land of Przasny, who signed up on the pages of history and had a real influence on the formation of statehood of independent Poland. As part of the national celebrations of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, this figure should also be commemorated, especially since it has been often overlooked in the national forum for many years. The memory of the card. Kakowski and his actions survived and is nurtured in his home parts - the land of Przasny. This is due to the involvement of the parish priests of the Holy Place where Alexander Kakowski was born, priests Jan Pakieła and Marek Makowski, and the commune's wójt Przasnysz Mrs. Grażyna Wróblewska, who inspires and includes patronage of various projects aimed at perpetuating the knowledge of the Cardinal. On 28 September 2006, on the initiative of your uncle, a card statue was unveiled in the Holy Site. Alexander Kakowski. The Bishop of Płock Stanisław Wielgus made the sacrifice, and the openings were made by the Uncle Grażyna Wróblewska and the parish priest of the Holy Place Fr. Jan Packel. This celebration was an opportunity to gather many representatives of the cardinal's family. The preservation of knowledge is served by published publications, which were passionate Fr. Mark Makowski. He was their main inspiration and performer. The most important of them are: Cardinal Alexander Kakowski Archbishop of Warsaw Metropolitan, Pastoral Letters and Cardinal Alexander Kakowski's messages, History of the Parish in the Holy Place. In September 2013, a square was created in the area near the rectory of the Holy Place. Alexander Kakowski. The commemorative plaque was funded by the municipality of Przasnysz. Their races have already become a tradition. Aleksandra Kakowski, who are part of the family festival organized by the parish of the Holy Place and the commune of Przasnysz, as well as numerous competitions and educational projects. On 21 October 2017, the epitaph was unveiled in honor of cardinals. Kakowski in the parish church in Przasnysz, where the cardinal was baptized. The plaque was unveiled and consecrated by the bishop of Piotr Libera. The ceremony was attended by parliamentarians, representatives of the President of the Republic of Poland, local authorities of the commune, city and district of Przasny and numerous residents and families. Here I would like to thank Mayor Waldemar Trochimiuk, Mr Krzysztof Bienkowski, President of the Social Committee of the celebrations of the 100th anniversary of independence in Przasnysz, and the director of the Historical Museum in Przasnysz and Fr. Dean Andrzej Maciejewski for organizing these celebrations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u467	Thank you, Member. Now Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u468	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today is two years since the Poles chose a good change. There are many areas in the economy, in social policy, where the success of Poles and the government is noticeable. I would like to draw attention to the 500+ family programme. This is undoubtedly the great success of the current government on behalf of Law and Justice. This is a real change in the state's approach to Polish families. It turns out that 60% funds from this programme go to families who raise children in the countryside. It follows that from PLN 25 billion provided for in the budget for the 500+ programme in 2018 about PLN 15 billion will go to families from the countryside. In 2016, 3.8 million children benefited from the programme, which improved the material situation of families. This is evident in the statistics of institutions related to social assistance - this programme has resulted in a decrease in the number of families covered by this assistance. After almost 2 years of operation, the 500+ family has a positive impact on the number of births in our country. According to data from the Central Statistical Office in the first half of 2017 about 200,000 were born in Poland for the first time in many years. children. It is likely that about 400 thousand will be born in Poland by the end of 2017. children. It can be carefully predicted that the implementation of the 500+ family programme will increase the number of new births by 20,000, much more than the CSO predicted in 2016. These data are highly optimistic, but problems still persist on a daily basis. They are most often related to local government, which does not fully keep statutory deadlines for processing applications. There is therefore no payment of benefits on which children and families lose their lives. Sometimes the rigid approach to problems and the lack of empathy of officials, as if deliberately dissuading the patentors to claim the right to 500+, force me to constantly intervene in these matters. Officials hope that the government will be held accountable for their tardiness and ignorance. I suppose it's a deliberate act. And where is family and family help in all this? This must be strongly opposed and defended by young Poles, who are often unjustly prevented from taking advantage of the programme. High Izbo! A good change is the future of Poland and Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u469	Thank you. Katarzyna Czochara, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u470	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you that on 23 October this year. Holy Mass. In the old chapel at the cemetery in Opole we said goodbye to sleep. Richard Kowalczyk, an oppositionist who, together with his brother Jerzy, blew up in 1971 in protest against the communist power of the Academy of Pedagogics in Opole. The funeral ceremony was of a national nature. The body's asleep. Richard Kowalczyk was buried in the alley of the well-deserved Opole cemetery. The funeral took place with the participation of an honorary assistant, a military orchestra and postcards. Richard Kowalczyk was awarded a gold medal posthumously for his service to the defense of the country. At the funeral was the brother of the deceased Jerzy Kowalczyk, who, speaking of blowing up the auditorium, in a conversation with the reporter of Radio Opole said: It was the rebellious spirit of the nation that appeared in us. This system of persecution of the population is responsible for this, so it should not be so surprising that there have been riots in our society. That's how it always ends. This is always how a revolution is created, resistance, if society is persecuted by the ruling elite. Just on 6 October 1971, a few hours later, they were to be rewarded and awarded to the communist regime officers MO and SB, those who had participated in the working massacre on the coast a few months earlier in December 1970. At the KW PZPR execution meeting in 1970 in Gdańsk, Zenon Kliszko and Stanisław Kociołek stated: We are dealing with counter-revolution, and counter-revolution must be fought by force. If 300 workers die, the mutiny will be crushed. On the basis of this decision, Army General Wojciech Jaruzelski ordered the shooting of defenseless workers. Militia and the military have used heavy ammunition. They're dead. 5,000 were thrown into the fight against demonstrators. Militia and 27,000. soldiers. 550 tanks and 700 armored transporters were also used. A year later, some of them were about to be decorated in Opole. This is how the Kowalczyks wanted to protest against the reward of murderers. On August 28, 1972, the trial of both brothers began in the Opole Voivodeship Court. The prosecutors demanded the death penalty for both brothers. On September 8, 1972, the Provincial Court in Opole found the Kowalczyk responsible for the explosion in the auditorium. George was sentenced to death, and Richard was sentenced to 25 years in prison. After the protests, the punishment was alleviated for both brothers. Present at the funeral of Sławomir Cenckiewicz, director of the Central Military Archive, emphasized that the people's power did everything to distort the meaning of this act. Of course, he was publicized by communist propaganda, but in such a hybrid way - said Cenckiewicz. Only this terrorist plot was exposed. On the other hand, as for this topic, why did they do it, how it had to do with the December massacre in 1970 and directly with the Tricity, no one was supposed to find out unless he listened to Radio Free Europe. Andrzej Stara, on the other hand, mentioned this event: The reaction was immediate. People on the street, in the tram, congratulated themselves at work that, however, there was someone in the country who defended the honor not only of Gdansk and Gdynia, but of the entire Polish nation. The funeral was attended by representatives of the highest state and local authorities, the Secretary of State in the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda, Mr Andrzej Dera. On behalf of the Minister for National Defence, Antoni Macierewicz [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr Wojciech Fałkowski read the commemorative letter from the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence. On behalf of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, Mariusz Błaszczak read the commemorative letter from the Chief of Police in Opole insp. Jarosław Kaleta. On behalf of the Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons of Jan Kasprzyk, Mr Piotr Kolanowski from the Department of Celebration of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons spoke. On behalf of President Opole, Vice President Opole Marcin Rol spoke. The funeral ceremony was also attended by an MP at the Sejm of Antoni Duda. This ceremony was important for many of us, also for the President of Law and Justice Jarosław Kaczyński, on behalf of whom I submitted a commemorative bundle. Ladies and gentlemen! I had the privilege of personally meeting Mr Richard Kowalczyk and his brother Jerzy. I've also met their great...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u471	Member, we are going to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u472	...heroic attitude. Today, from this place, I want to thank them, to honor and honor both the late Richard Kowalczyk and the living Jerzy, the steadfast heroes who in critical moments...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u473	Member, please proceed to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u474	...the Polish people sparked the will to fight for their rights, for their homeland, for their faith and for God. You're here and you'll be in our memory. Hello and praise the heroes! Thank you so much and I'm so sorry. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-25-sejm-50-1.u475	That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 26 October 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 22 min 26]]
