ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u1	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Administration and Home Affairs - 15 minutes after the end of the votes, - Public Finance 15 minutes after the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u2	Thank you very much. High Seym! The committee responsible has submitted a report on the Commission's draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2018 with the Year of Zbigniew Herbert. This is print number 1937. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. It's a 1961 print. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. The committee responsible submitted a report on the Commission's draft resolution on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in January-June 2017 (the presidency of Malta in the Council of the European Union). This is printing number 1804-A. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with a point including consideration of this resolution. I would like to inform you that the planned item 33rd of the agenda: The report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and some other laws will not be considered at the current meeting of the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 34 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Commission's draft resolution on the establishment of 2018 in the Year of Zbigniew Herbert (prints 1893 and 1937). I would like to ask the rapporteur of the committee to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u3	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I submit a report to the Committee on Culture and Media on the Commission's draft resolution on the establishment of 2018 in the Year of Zbigniew Herbert. I present the text of the resolution. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] On 28 July 2018, it will be 20 years since Zbigniew Herbert's death - one of the most outstanding Polish and European poets of the 20th century. On this occasion the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, in recognition of the great merits of the Artist, decides to pay tribute to Him. In the crisis of values and deep doubt, Zbigniew Herbert has always stood on the side of principles: in art - a canon of beauty, hierarchy and crafts, in life - codes of ethics, clearly distinguishing the concepts of right and wrong. He was the personification of allegiance - himself and the word. In his poetry he expressed the love of freedom, faith in the dignity of the individual and its moral strength. Patriotism understood as a raw love, requiring solidarity with the humiliated and patient work on restoring the concepts of their real meanings. He observed: 'A nation that loses its memory loses its conscience'. Therefore, 'It is necessary [...] to do everything to rebuild imponderabilia and authority. For their absence is a mortal threat to the fate of the nation." He introduced many sentences into Polish to build our identity and imagination, the most important of which is: 'Be faithful Go'. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland, deeply convinced of the unique importance of His works, establishes the year 2018 as Zbigniew Herbert's Year. [[Applause]] I wanted to apply for a draft resolution by acclamation, but as I understand it, the High House has warned my motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u4	Thank you very much. I understand that applause proves that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the establishment of the year 2018 by the acclamation of Zbigniew Herbert. I would like to inform you that Members have submitted formal proposals. I will now ask Members to present them. Member of Sławomir Neumann, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u5	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a formal request to change the way in which the proceedings are conducted today and in the future. [[Yeah, after the election.]] I mean what happened at the last meeting, the reactions of you and the Vice-Marshals of Law and Justice who punished two Members: Mr Nitras and Mr Petru... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...for trying to speak in a debate or to make a formal motion in the Polish Parliament. [[Yes, in the debate...]] If you think you're gonna drown out the opposition, that you're gonna scare us and we're not gonna want to tell the truth about you from this speaker, then you're wrong. [[Applause]] Remember that the introduction of such Belarusian standards, three times punishing a Member by taking half his salary, a Member who works in committees and in the Sejm, for wanting to file a formal application... Mr. Marshal, this is unworthy of you. I do not know if this is the result of any of your complexes or of Marshal Brudziński's on behalf of Mr Nitras, but it is unworthy of treating Members. [[Applause]] Be aware of that. This is an outrageous behavior and introduction of Belarusian standards to the Polish parliament. I appeal to the Marshal and to the Vice-Marshals of Law and Justice, because it is you who imposed these penalties that, when you dismiss one and the other Member, you will withdraw from this, because it is indeed the height of hypocrisy that punish Members for wanting to file a formal application, and for defending Members of Law and Justice who insult Poles - insult Poles, insult Members of the opposition - and there is no response, and in some cases even defend their immunities, so that they do not answer to a civil court. That's your morality. That's your ethics. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, may I? It's against the law.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u6	Thank you. I listened very carefully to Mr... Ladies and gentlemen, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] especially Members on the left side of the room, to calm the emotions. I would like to inform you that Mr Nitras' speeches cannot be included in the formal proposals because there is no such point. [[Voice from the room: He hasn't performed yet.]] [[They're obsessed.]] [[Voice from the room: But it was not Nitras who performed.]] There it is, ladies and gentlemen, in the article. Paragraph 184. Point 8 of the proposal for a formal change in the way the discussion is conducted, not the conduct of the deliberations. [[What punishment did Kaczynski receive?]] Mr Bożena Kamińska, Club Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u7	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 I request a recess and I ask you very much to explain by Prime Minister Beata Szydło the lack of a strong reaction in the form of resignation of the head of the SKW of Mr Piotr Bączek because of the disclosure of the SKW's lie about a close associate of Minister Antoni Macierewicz, Mr Jack Kotas, also known as the Russian liaison...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u8	Madam, your proposal does not concern the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u9	...who's been granted permission and made available state secrets.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u10	I'm very sorry, ma'am, but I can't count your speech as a formal motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u11	Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to remind you that formal proposals can only concern matters, and I quote: they are on the agenda. So I ask you to follow the rules of procedure, because otherwise I will understand that this is an attempt to use this speech for discussion or to emphasize other information, but I will treat it as an attempt to make it at least difficult to conduct discussions. [[Voice from the Chamber: Financial penalty.]] Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u13	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 I ask the marshal to announce a break before item 27 so that Minister Rafalska and Prime Minister Morawiecki can agree on some things. Namely, we will be voting on budgetary laws for 2018. From the information we receive, it appears that this budget is wonderful, the tax gap has been eliminated in general, Poland is a country of honey and milk flowing. Therefore, the question, if one could ask for an answer, is why a law is being prepared, which in 2018 wants to draw more than PLN 5 billion from the taxpayer's pocket, and the upper limit on the payment of contributions, which is currently set at 30 times. These revenue to the budget is almost PLN 5.5 billion, which will be drawn out of the taxpayer's pocket. There's no way that since it's so good, you're downloading more money. That's what I'm asking for, Mr. Marshal. [[There's no consent.]] Besides, Mr. Marshal, I have a favor to ask. Yesterday, at a meeting with the marshal, the committee president found out that you were planning to change the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. I think it's in the article. 184 should be added another point that Members may speak in no way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Just like in this case.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u14	Theoretically, you can imagine that no mode is also mode... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Mode for the president.]] [[Accepted by the marshal.]] ...but, ladies and gentlemen, certainly in matters of resolutions, including amendments to the Rules of Procedure, will be decided by the Sejm. On the other hand, we will return to the formal proposal of the Member before this point, as you put it. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u15	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, According to Art. 184 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I request a recess to give Mr. Marshal time to explain to the Seniors' Convention, as it is that the laws which are in the government on Tuesday have their first reading in the Sejm and today we will vote on them for the first time, and the laws brought by the opposition are still blocked, even though in principle the debate is also taking place on them. I'm referring, Mr. Marshal, to the club's bill. Modern more than a week ago, almost two weeks ago, about restricting work in commercial facilities. As you know, there is a big discussion about changing the lives of Polish traders, and after this discussion the examination of this bill will not make any sense. This law is intended to guarantee two free Sundays for trade workers, whether or not commercial establishments will operate. We don't think it's necessary in this case to pour out a baby with a bath. And Mr Marshal is unduly blocking the introduction of this law to committee work, where there is a big discussion on this subject. It cannot be so, Mr. Marshal, that government laws are being thrown into a session of the Sejm not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because they were not even reported on Tuesday before hours. 21 We did not have their prints, and the opposition laws wait weeks, even months in the waiting room of Mon. Legislature Bureau or BAS. Mr. Marshal! I'm looking forward to it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] equal treatment of government law and justice projects and opposition projects. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u16	Thank you, Member. I am merely reminding you, Madam President, that only a few points in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm refer to a three-day, seven-day time limit, at noon. On the 21st day preceding the session of the Sejm, but there is always a saying: unless the Sejm decides otherwise. At the beginning of this sitting, the Sejm decided on such a agenda. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: It would be good for the Sejm to decide.]] So that I draw your attention: please read the Rules of Procedure carefully. Mrs Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u17	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to Art. Paragraph 184. Section 3 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm requests a recess. Of course, I will talk about the agenda. We process several health laws, including the Basic Healthcare Act and the Budget Act. Although there is no Prime Minister to whom I would like to appeal and for whom this break would be necessary, there is, after all, the most important decision-making person, President Kaczyński, so I think he will listen to this and forward what I am about to say to the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the budget bill that we are going to process, on Wednesday at the meeting of the Committee on Health, we were informed that the budget for health care for the next year was reduced by PLN 114 million, Bagatela. If you're dealing with protesters, you're drafting a bill to increase health funding, how does that apply to what we read in the draft budget? Ladies and gentlemen! The 26th day is protested by Polish health workers, not only by young residents, but generally all the environments have joined the protest. Is it because they don't smoke tires on the streets and threaten anybody to destroy property, that the government just leaves them to themselves? Don't you know that these are representatives of 38 million Poles, who everyone, including everyone in this room, will one day be a patient? Who's gonna take care of us? Mr. President! I ask that you, just as you have a good heart for animals, at least some, have it for Polish patients as well. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u18	Thank you. Mr Rafał Grupiński, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u19	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask your comments for a moment. I ask the marshal to ask you, Prime Minister Beata Szydło, to explain why one of the Members of this House, the Minister of Justice - Attorney General Mr Zbigniew Ziobro, tolerates or inspires the anti-Semitic behaviour under his office in the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] The National Attorney's Office is asking for the withdrawal of the charges against former priest Miedlar. The National Attorney's Office needs experts...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u20	Mr President, it is just that this is not a formal proposal. [[Censor's in this room.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u21	...Mr. Marshal, to explain the anti-Semitic films he recorded in the courtyard of the Wroclaw synagogue Mr. Miedlar and Mr. Rybak...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u22	Mr President, I am very sorry, but you do not speak in the form of a formal proposal. [[Don't close our mouths.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u23	And either Minister Ziobro is a man who doesn't know what's going on, or he's getting close to...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u24	Mr President, I would like to point out to you that this is not a formal proposal. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u25	Mr. Marshal! This is a serious matter, this is a matter of anti-Semitism among Members. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u26	Okay, but there are other forms and there are other modes...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u27	Don't interrupt me. I've got 40 seconds left.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u28	...to intervene in such matters. I would ask you to speak to me in writing. [[And in a month, you'll answer.]] [[Voice from the room: in six months.]] I'll intervene, but don't abuse the rules of the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u29	Mr. Marshal, in the Republic of Poland, in our lands, the Germans murdered 3 million Jews.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u30	Mr... [[Don't interrupt.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u31	Please don't interrupt me. I'm bringing up anti-Semitism. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u32	It's just that you're acting irregularly right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u33	Because if the prosecution tolerates anti-Semitism in Poland, then Poland really will lose its soul...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u34	Mr President, I draw your attention. Please come to me in regular mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u35	...tolerant, multinational country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u36	Please come to me in regular mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u37	Mr. Marshal! I'm surprised to see you, and I'm very sorry for your loss. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to give you a comparison that if the road is a one-way street, then driving against the current is prohibited. Then whoever drives against the current receives punishment. [[Applause]] [[Simple. Bravo!]] And here, obviously, the rules are being violated and, as I understand them, consciously. If it continues this way, then, ladies and gentlemen, I will have to consider that such speeches are a form of obstruction of the work of the Sejm. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the hall: How embarrassing are you?]] [[Yes, sir. Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen, one of the requests made by Mrs Gądek, I consider it a formal request - a request for interruption - and I will put this proposal to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 163 Members voted against - 265, 3 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. I remind you that there are other modes. There are also forms of meetings of the Convention and the Bureau, where all such matters as those previously presented by Mr Grupinski can be discussed. I am also trying to intervene with the President of the Council of Ministers, if this case concerns the Government. We are returning to the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the governmental draft law on the financing of educational tasks. The additional committee report is in print 1897-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Kazimierz Moskal to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u39	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the joint committees, I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law on the financing of educational tasks, print No. 1837. On 25 October, the Sejm re-directed the draft law to the joint committees to examine the proposal and the 42 amendments tabled at second reading. The amendments concerned, among others, grants from the budget of local government units, educational grants and promotion-related matters, evaluation of teachers' work and remuneration of teachers. The Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, after considering the proposal and amendments at its meeting on 26 October, ask the High Sejm to accept 24 amendments, reject 18 amendments and reject the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u40	Thank you. At the same time, of course, the committees are asking for the adoption of the draft Print Act No. 1897 with possible amendments, which I will put to the vote first... First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The adoption of this proposal will render the remaining proposals futile. In this regard, the question is asked by Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! Minister! We are dealing with a project that is called a project about funding educational tasks, but in fact it is a project in which, yes, some financial issues are being settled, but above all, major changes are made to the Teacher's Charter. First of all, the principles related to the teacher's promotion are introduced, and the rules related to the teacher's evaluation are introduced. Changes are being made that have not been properly consulted with the teachers' community, which is why we are opposed as Modern. We would like to ask, and that is why I ask the Minister why the Ministry lacked the courage to make such changes with an open ceiling. Why did it lack the courage to carry out changes to the Teacher's Charter in consultation with teachers? Why are you kidding teachers by pretending you're talking about funding education when you're really talking about profound changes in the Teacher's Charter? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u42	Thank you very much. Minister Anna Zalewska is asking for the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u43	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will try to limit the comments and answers, respecting your time, so that the bill can be transposed efficiently, but in strategic moments when the words are false, I will recite. Ladies and gentlemen, the Education Finance Act is a long-awaited law, very well adopted by local governments - there is a positive opinion of local governments - and long-awaited also by teachers. As far as consultations are concerned, 50 pages of the annex to the Act are the result of these consultations and comments, it is the adoption of these consultations. At the same time, I would like to remind you that since November ub. At the Ministry of Education, there is a team consisting of local government officials, trade unionists and experts from the Ministry of Education. We have completed the first stage we could agree to, and this is the result of consultation, courage and talks with local government and teachers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u44	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. There were 163 votes against and 271 abstentions. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the first amendment to Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 20 applicants propose to amend their appointments. Amendments 3, 6, 9 and 32 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. The question is asked by Mr Kinga Gajewska, the Civic Platform Club. The time for questioning is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u45	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We are talking about funding education under this law, and local governments are responsible for education. They receive money in the form of grants for educational tasks, and this money is only sufficient for half of the expenses. The Civic Platform has prepared a program for local elections. All PIT and CIT will stay in local governments. [[That's not a subsidy.]] The municipality itself will decide how much it wants to spend on education. First of all, local governments, municipalities... [[Voice from the room: Get to the point.]] [[This is the Sejm, not some bullshit.]] ...they'll finally have something to pay for. This will improve the quality of education, as well as protect children from the indoctrination and lies that you fund. [[Applause]] We'll put the schools in the best hands: we'll give them back. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We'll give them to the local authorities and give them to their parents. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u46	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 1, 3, 6, 9 and 32 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The vote was 297 against - 3 and 137 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the second amendment, the applicants propose that the words "educational materials' or "training materials' replace the words "educational materials' and "training materials'. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Kinga Gajewska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u47	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This is not our amendment, this is Kukiz's amendment15. This is a very good amendment, because it talks about increasing funds, increasing subsidies for home schooling from 0 to 25% of subsidies. In order to have home schooling in preschool education, the principal's approval is essential. Such a child, however, goes to certain classes, may go to kindergarten. Such a child may also be evaluated by the Director. Home schooling is decided by courageous parents, parents who have decided to devote their lives to the goal of education, so we are in favour of increasing it to 25%. Kukiz, on the other hand... Oh, maybe I'll mention that next amendment, Mr. Kukiz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u48	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The vote was 183, against 226, with 26 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 23. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 5. The question is asked by Krystyna Szumilas, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister, how is it: Is a kindergartener, a six-year-old, who goes to a zero-year-old, a student or not? Because once you say you're a student, and once you say you're not. You're removing from the education system law the possibility of passing on an education grant to a six-year-old in home schooling. This is 414 kindergarteners in Poland. You don't want to help your parents, help local governments prepare this six-year-old for school education. When are you telling the truth? When a six-year-old is needed for ideological speeches, or when you want to save money on the state budget for the education of six-year-olds? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u50	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 206 voted against - 235, 1 member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the article. 23. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Questions are asked by Members. Member of King Gajewska, Civic Platform Club. [[Voice from the hall: This speech has already been made.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u51	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, we are all equal to the law - a quote from Minister Jaki. I am very pleased that you have started to be a little embarrassed about these programming bases. I understand it's a shame you don't want to reveal the names of the people who created them. [[What does that have to do with the amendment?]] These secret experts most likely selected according to the ideological key of the Ministry of National Education paid 825 thousand. zł. [[Not much.]] But you're welcome to execute the court order. The Minister says that in fear of a lynch, the Ministry of National Education does not want to show who created new guidelines for Polish schools. I'm not surprised, because I remember lynching when one of your experts convinced the public, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's because...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u52	Thank you, ma'am.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u53	...condoms can get brain cancer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u54	Thank you, Member. Mr Bartosz Józwiak, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor. I remind you, it's about making a new sound of the art. 23.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u55	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! At first, I wanted to say that the Minister, speaking of supporting domestic education, is missing the truth. Why? Showing. First, the possibility of implementing the Polish programme base for children of Poles living abroad was eliminated. That's one thing. [[Applause]] Secondly, the subsidy for children learning from home to 0.6 per person has been reduced. The third thing that is happening now, and this amendment we would like to put an end to - in general, the possibility of financing schooling or pre-school education is excluded, even though the Minister has previously agreed and with the way in which the sums are charged for domestic education and their amount. Do you really, ladies and gentlemen, mind this domestic education? Why? Because he's slipping away from the system? Those kids sneaking out of control? Please accept this amendment. This is really an amendment that goes against people, giving them the opportunity to continue to function in their home education. Unless you want to kill her once and for all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u56	Please. Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u57	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question that continues what Mr Józwiak just said. How in the Minister's office is such a dislike for conservative, traditional families, [[Applause]] which their children do not send to school as part of their home education, which unfortunately creates a variety of educational risks all the time, but want to raise their children with their own sumpt? And they pay for it, they pay taxes to the state, and they have the right to expect that this country will help them to educate their children at home, which they do well because these children have better results than the average in public schools. So I ask myself, why this dislike of the supposedly right-wing government, supposedly the right-wing minister of education for home education, for conservative, traditional families. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u58	Thank you. Minister Anna Zalewska is asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The words coming from this speaker are false words. Let us sort out what has already been written in the Law of Education. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Domestic education is the right of parents to carry out school duties in the territory of the Republic of Poland. Education law has strengthened this domestic education, among others. allowing you to rent equipment, rent textbooks, contact and education your parents. Let us remind you that the parent does not receive any money, but receives a school to which the child is assigned so that he can take the exams after completing each class so that he can return to the system at any time. There is no country in the world to carry out a school obligation in a double system around the world. We support, ladies and gentlemen, all Polish families, Poles around the world through schools that are at consulates, by providing textbooks that are addressed to students of these schools. We support all Polish organizations and associations, and we also have online education, at a distance, which is served by the Centre for the Development of Polish Education abroad. Therefore, we support domestic education, we support parents. But let us not tell citizens that the privilege of using additional classes for a child who learns at home during the week can be realized from London in Rzeszów. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u60	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 202 voted against - 230 and 4 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. In paragraph 31, the first paragraph is replaced by the following: 1 The applicants propose to add a new wording to the calculation. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club. [[Be careful, or you'll be punished.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u61	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask you one thing, because this amendment imposes new obligations on the counties, and the counties ask one thing: Who are the professionals and what were they thinking that 13-year-olds in the 7th grade of primary school would have more teaching hours a week than 15-year-olds in the 2nd grade of junior high school? Parents ask, people who supervise education, ask, people to whom you take competence in supervising this education, ask what is the meaning, what is logic, what these 13-year-old children deserved to be given such programs, exactly the number of hours we had when we were studying in the Polish People's Republic, because that's exactly what it is. There are more hours and items are introduced exactly like in the PRL. These are questions, Minister, parents. And I would be very obliged if you would take these questions very, very seriously and if we could get an answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u62	Please. [[So, the truth is, if you don't straighten it out.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is adopting the 7th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. There were 262 votes against and 176 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. 35 in the paragraph. 1 applicants propose to add a new wording to the text of point 1. a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 169 voted against - 268, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the article. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose to amend their appointments. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. The vote was 306 against - 9, with 127 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. 47 applicants propose that the words 'altitude fixing and transfer' be replaced by 'altitude fixing or transfer'. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 434, no one voted against, three Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. 52 applicants propose to add paragraph. 15 on the fee for the use of pre-school education in public institutions. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. The question is asked by Katarzyna Lubnauer, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! Minister! One of the most important elements of equalising opportunities is early education, also pre-school education. That is why it is so important that as many children as possible are included in pre-school education from the earliest possible age. At a time when it was decided that the school's obligation should include seven-year-olds rather than six-year-olds, it was decided that for six-year-olds who would have preschool preschool education in the form of a nursery, local authorities would receive a grant for them. However, this grant is much lower than what local authorities would receive, it is about funding, for a primary school student. Therefore, it is important that at least partially local authorities receive more resources to ensure good preschool education for children who are in kindergartens, because we need to increase the level of pre-schooling among children from 3 to 5 years of age as much as possible. I consider it a mistake at all, which was in that education reform, that five-year-olds are not required [[♪ The bell ♪]] preschool education. Why didn't you decide to increase pre-school expenditure to a greater extent? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u64	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. The vote was 297 against - 3 and 141 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 13th amendment to the article. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 applicants propose to increase the annual amount of grants for each pupil in the preschool institution to 1800 PLN. Amendments 33 and 34 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. Questions are asked by Members. Mr Katarzyna Lubnauer, Modern Club. [[I'm sorry. Thank you. I'm resigning now.]] Please, Mr Krystyna Shumilas, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u65	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! By withdrawing from the drop in school age, you tricked local governments into PLN 1 billion. If the six-year-old was in school, local governments would receive PLN 2.5 billion for this, today they receive only PLN 1.4 billion. When you withdrew from the school age reduction, you cut the pre-school grant by more than PLN 300 million. We therefore propose to return to the 2013 pre-school grant and increase the grant for one pre-schooler. This will really improve the financial situation of local governments and the situation of children in kindergartens. This will allow a six - year - old in kindergarten to study. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And in the reconstruction of the government, I propose that the Ministry of Education be renamed the Ministry of Truth of Orwell. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u66	Thank you, Member. Mr Lech Szbek, the Law and Justice Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Is it true that in 2014, despite the significant increase in the number of pupils as a result of the decrease in the age of school obligation, the subsidy was lower than in the previous year, i.e. 2013. And is it true that in the 2016 budget, despite a significant reduction in the number of pupils as a result of the increase in the age of school obligation, the subsidy not only decreased, but even increased, providing the local authorities with funding to a six-year-old not of PLN 1800, not of PLN 1300 - how much did the Platform plan - but of PLN 4600? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u68	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 13, 33 and 34 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 174 voted against - 266, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 14th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 76. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will make the amendments 15 to 22, 24th, 25th, 35th, 39th and 42nd unobtrusive. The envoy asks questions... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: I don't want any more.]] ...Miss... [[What's up, what's the problem?]] ...Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u69	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In mode, without mode, in an unreasonable way, as the Office of Sejm Analysis claims, you want to change the Teacher's Card. You do this without a complete consultation with the trade unions, contrary to what Minister Zalewska says. Yesterday, the trade unionists were very clear about this during the meeting of the Education Committee. Well, you've consulted the project, but you've skipped the element. You are doing this in an arbitrary manner, without discussion, without reflection, without accepting any amendments from the opposition. So I'd like to ask you if it's true that you've been propagandizing success, and really there's a giant hole in the budget, and you're looking for savings in the pockets of our teachers. Isn't it true that teachers aren't the best qualified group and you shouldn't be doing this? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u70	The question is asked by Katarzyna Lubnauer, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I will use the opinion of BAS, because in fact the whole article. 76, which should be deleted - I would like to know why you introduced it - is about changing the Teacher's Charter. What does BAS say? It is not justified to make a fundamental amendment of the Teacher's Charter Act in connection with the Law on the financing of educational tasks in the field not relating to the subject matter of the proposed Act. The revision of the Teacher Card should be made separately. But you can find a reason why this is a financial project and why these changes in the Teacher Charter relate to a project related to the financing of educational tasks. It is estimated that the savings resulting from the extension of the career promotion path with excess will cover the planned expenditure related to allowances for outstanding work. What is it, ladies and gentlemen? According to BAS, the whole 500+ project for teachers is to be financed from the fact that they will earn less as a result of the longer promotion path. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u72	Thank you. The Minister of Education, Ms Anna Zalewska, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, the BAS conclusion is exactly the opposite, i.e. that the law qualifies to be subject to further procedure. Secondly, she said that some elements of the BAS opinion were debatable. Thirdly, it is difficult to say that these provisions agreed with trade unions do not involve financing. Tell that to the educators, psychologists, who will be working for 35 hours until the bill is passed, and at the moment, after the vote, up to 22 hours. Third, a little surprise. The card is discussed by those who raised the question of the liquidation of the card. Let us recall the election campaign and Richard Petru, who said in Świdnica that the Teacher's Charter should not be... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Change.]] ...and my predecessor's statement in one of the media who said that if they win the election, they'll close the card. We're behind the card. We're upgrading the card. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u74	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 171 Members voted against - 265, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 15th amendment to the article. 76 applicants propose to delete point 3. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is raised by Urszula Augustyn, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u75	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Minister! This is an amendment that says that you make regular, every three years, teacher evaluation. I wanted to ask you if the teachers haven't been judged so far. But of course, teachers are constantly under assessment, grades from students, parents, their superiors, directors, leading bodies. Only that the state has figured out that now this assessment will be special, because the state will particularly appreciate the ethical and moral attitude of the teacher. So far she has also been evaluated, but the Minister has decided to give here a special tool to the curators of education, who will judge whether the teacher's attitude is moral or not moral. If the Minister thinks it's not segregation or politicising the profession of teacher, then I'm very surprised, because now it's the probation officer who's going to tell the teacher what to do, [[♪ The bell ♪]] How to live, where and when to walk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u76	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u77	And that's just unacceptable. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u78	Mr Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! Minister! Indeed, modern is in favour of a fundamental change of the Teacher's Charter. We've been talking about this all along. We believe that the Teacher's Charter is an archaic project and that this needs to be changed. I have repeatedly pointed out to the Minister that this is the case on our program, please read it. What else is changing with an open head and telling the teachers directly, what awaits them, that you extend your teacher's promotion periods, that you want to save money for the prizes you think you give, and what else it is to put it quietly. On the other hand, the second point is that a regulation is an annex to this law. In the regulation, you are quite clear about the criteria for assessing the teacher. These criteria include: an assessment of morality and ethics. Ladies and gentlemen, isn't this a tool to limit the activity of teachers? Does this mean that the teacher will soon have to have the parish priest's opinion in order to get a distinctive grade that will enable him to be promoted more quickly or to receive an award? In this way, the state restricts ideologically [[♪ The bell ♪]] the performance of teachers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u80	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 171 Members voted against - 259, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 16th amendment to the article. 76 applicants propose a new wording of point 21. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 17. The question is asked by Krystyna Szumilas, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u81	You are introducing an allowance for outstanding work for qualified teachers only in 2022. We propose that this allowance for outstanding work should be from 1 September 2018 for teachers of all grades of professional promotion. What is the difference between a teacher appointed with a distinctive grade and a diplomat? The money is because the state in OSR reported that thanks to the extension of your career promotion term you will finance the supplement for your outstanding job and you will have another 200 million PLN. You want to get this 200 million zloty out of the teachers' pockets, and we propose that you give this 200 million zloty to the teachers, if you insist on this form, in the form of an outstanding job. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u82	Thank you. Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u83	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The regulation that introduces morality into the teacher assessment criterion is a very good solution if we take Iran or Afghanistan as a reference point. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister, the Prime Minister and Mr Kaczyński, who, in our legal solution as regards education, will be the Ayatollah who will judge the morality of teachers, whether they are moral or not. [[Sit down!]] Wouldn't it be Tadeusz Rydzyk, or would it be President Kaczyński? Who's gonna be the ayatollah who's gonna judge morality? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u84	I remind you, however, that the questions should be addressed either to the rapporteur or to the representative of the government. [[The Minister's office.]] In this case, the Minister wants to answer? There you go. Minister of Education Anna Zalewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u85	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I understand that the total opposition wants to liquidate the Posel Ethics Commission, because we talk about ethics everywhere: journalism, medical ethics and teacher ethics. [[Applause]] First of all, ladies and gentlemen, this is a draft regulation. Secondly, I encourage the total opposition to work on the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u86	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 201 voted against 235, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 17th amendment to the article. 76 applicants propose to add point 21a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is raised by Urszula Augustyn, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! By voting on the previous amendment, you showed how true your promises were that you would raise teachers' salaries. We have suggested that you raise them from 2018 onwards, but you voted for them. So we're going to make another amendment, and we're going to suggest that since you don't want all teachers at the various degrees of promotion to give the promised 16%. Then give at different degrees different amounts. For the contract teacher - 10% increase, for the appointed - 13 percent increase, for the certified - 16 percent increase. Now we're going to see how attached you are to the idea that you're going to give these raises. Because it's not only that you want to sort them out and tell them that the good guy gets the bad guy doesn't get the bad guy, but right now you're showing that they won't get it at all, because 2023 is very far away, out of your reach. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u88	Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I need to ask you another question, because I don't think the former Minister understood correctly. I asked about morality, not ethics, and I understand that you are accusing a total opposition of wanting to liquidate the ethics committee. I also understand that the total authority will want to make a moral committee in the Sejm, which will assess whether the Member concerned is in line with the morality established by the total authority or not. I ask again: Who will judge whether a given teacher is moral according to the interpretation of the government or not? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u90	The question asked by the Member is not about Amendment 17. In addition, ethics is a science of morality. [[Applause]] [[No.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 204 voted against 237, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 18th amendment to the article. 76 applicants propose to delete point 22. Amendments 24, 25, 35, 39 and 42. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. Their adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 36. The question is raised by Krystyna Szumilas, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Pressure makes sense. It is good that you have withdrawn from such a transition, paying teachers at the beginning of the month and moving it towards the end of the month, without financial compensation. Very good of you to listen to our voices. It is a pity, however, that you did not use the time of financial prosperity that Prime Minister Morawiecki is talking about, and you did not make this shift, giving the teachers financial compensation. Then the self-governments, and the credit card mistake, and the teachers would be happy, and the state would do a good thing. We will vote in favour of this amendment because it is our amendment, but it is a pity that you will throw away our amendment on increasing the salaries of teachers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and shift painlessly the salary at the beginning of the month at the end of the month. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u92	Thank you very much. Thank you, Commissioner, for this comment, because it was not a question. Mr Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! Minister! But let me remind you, maybe the minister didn't realize that the draft regulation had been prepared by total power, not total opposition, and that the state included morality, not us. Of course, we should continue to work on this regulation, but unfortunately it is the Minister's regulation, so we have no influence on it, but you. On the other hand, as regards the deletion of the article. 22, this is a typical example of something that should be done, but it was done wrong, it was simply misorganized. Indeed, it is necessary to change the way teachers are paid so that they do not have to pay in advance, only from below, because this needs to be sorted out. It just had to be spread out for two years, you had to give the teachers compensation, you had to deal with the trade unions, and you had to do it in the world. In this form it was unacceptable, which is why I am glad that it has been lifted. I wanted to ask, are you going to do this in a decent way? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u94	Madam President, we are all working with the intention of decent effects and ways, and I think that is what the Constitution and the Law obliges us to do. [[Really?]] Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Mr Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment is an example of the fact that, contrary to what the total opposition is saying, we listen to the voice of the citizens. [[Voice in the O.R.: Doctors.]] This is an amendment that stems from the voices of the teaching community, which clearly said that this point needs to be considered, that it can be returned to in the future. Contrary to what you are saying, this law provides for clear increases for teachers, because it is clear to write up increases - 5% every year for the next three years - it is a clear signal to teachers... [[2023]] [[Voice from the room: This is not in the bill.]] ...that their work is appreciated. Entries referring to additional motivational elements, such as 500+, are also a clear increase in teachers' earnings. [[When?]] Clearly, then, the law appreciates this profession and allows teachers to earn a decent wage - to those teachers who do their work particularly well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u96	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 18th, 24th, 25th, 35th, 39th and 42nd, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Parliament adopted the amendments unanimously. In the 19th amendment to the article. 76 point 23 of the applicant proposes to delete point (a). c. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of Amendment 20. The question is asked by Elżbieta Gapinska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is a free man who cannot plead guilty," said Fr. Tischner. I dedicate these words to the Prime Minister and to Minister Zalewska. I suggest you withdraw from those misrepresentations that you proposed in the bill... [[Voice from the room: Question.]] ...withdraw from changes to the Teacher's Charter, which you have not consulted with anyone. I also suggest that you have more confidence in the directors, because the directors know perfectly well when they can have oversized hours, which is precisely in this record, and they certainly do not take the penny away from teachers, because they know very well that teachers have a small penny, and some are not full at all. Thanks to your excellent deformity of education, 9 million teachers will lose their jobs. So I'm asking you to trust me more and please listen... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Jesus, no.]] [[The voice from the hall: Jesus! Jesus!]] ...listen... [[♪ The bell ♪]] 9,000. Listen to the teachers... [[1 billion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u98	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u99	And I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u100	Thank you, Member. But I would ask you to ask questions. If we're talking about principals and vice principals here, is that... and so on. Mr Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! Minister! Yes, indeed, the project provides for allowances for outstanding work for qualified teachers or any increase. Only that the BAS opinion makes it clear: all these increases, all these allowances are to be at the expense of teachers, at the expense of their earnings resulting from the fact that there will be a longer period of traineeship preceding the next stages of professional promotion, that the rules for giving leave for medical treatment have changed. I only expect one thing from you: that you will honestly tell the teachers, which results in increases, that you will first take them away, to give them later. And this is the reality described by this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u102	Let me remind you that we're talking about deleting lithium. c in Article 2 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013; 76, paragraph 23. It's about directors and vice principals. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Mr Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, you have to correct it. There are no 9 million teachers in Poland unless all parents are considered teachers. [[Applause]] Then you could probably talk about that number. In Poland there are about 500 and 600 thousand. teachers. On the other hand, this amendment clearly states: in specific situations and in the case of certain directors who do not take into account the interests of teachers and use their leadership position to increase their earnings. The bill just makes it impossible. In the next point, in the next provision of the Act, we are also talking about some possibilities when the authority leading in special situations can allow the Director to be oversized hours. Your attention and your amendment are unnecessary in this case. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u104	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 19th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 179 votes against - 257, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 20th amendment to the article. 76 points 23 and 39 propose to add a new text to the text. c and b. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Kinga Gajewska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u105	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! If the Ministry can change the Teacher Card Financing Act, then I can talk about the basics of the program. [[This has nothing to do with the amendment.]] [[Anna Karenina was the first.]] Dear Members, Can students like this school? According to Minister Zalewska, can the 3-year program be pushed in 2 years? Ladies and gentlemen, seventh graders are currently overloaded. At school, they spend as much time as an adult on the board. Plus, there's homework and extracurricular activities. The Ombudsman recently publishes letters of concerned parents. We, all Members, too, receive such letters. In one of them, the mother writes: In fact, many adults cannot imagine working for 12 hours, and a 12-year-old child is forced to do so. That yearbook that's now in seventh grade, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a yearbook... [[He's 14 in seventh grade.]] ...most affected by reforms.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u106	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u107	And these programs need to be changed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u108	I'm just pointing out that this is the time Asking questions, ladies and gentlemen. Questions, please. [[You're gonna stop because it's unbearable.]] Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer. [[Game in the O.R.]] And don't yell at each other because it just doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! Minister! I wanted to commend your ministry this time and thank you, because this change that was made by the ministry, you can say, was at my request. Indeed, it allows small schools to function better because it allows the principal to take hours when there is no teacher, for example. items with individual hours. I just wanted to ask you one simple thing: can't you do this more often? Can we not also listen to the opposition when we offer good solutions, as in the case of trade on Sunday? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u110	Then we shall proceed to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 20th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The vote was 432, against - 6, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 21st amendment to the article. 76, point 23, applicants propose to add a new wording to point (a) of the first subparagraph. e. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Kinga Gajewska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u111	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The whole reform of education is based on sentiment, and based on sentiments is based on selective memory. And for all those who claim that when they were in the eighth or seventh grade of primary school, there was even more lessons than today, I have here prepared a regulation of the Minister of National Education of 1992. In Class VII, ladies and gentlemen, in the 1990s were 23 hours a week plus 3 hours optional. However, what is the schedule of classes in Class VII in 2017? Ladies and gentlemen, this is the lesson plan. [[Voice from the room: You can't see.]] It's 38 hours plus religion and possibly career counseling. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Because we're growing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u112	But, of course, I understand you were talking about juvenile correction facilities and shelters. [[Joy in the Chamber]] because the amendment concerns this. But I would ask you to ask the right questions. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 21st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The vote was 297 against - 31, with 110 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 22nd amendment to the article. 76 applicants propose to delete point 29. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Kinga Gajewska, the Civic Platform Club. [[Voices from the hall: Oh, dear!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u113	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I know that you are not interested in education, which is why you are buzzing, but I would like to present to you a letter to the Association Parents against education reform, with an attached photo sent by parents from Junior High School no.123 in Warsaw. Currently, it is a primary school with two junior yearbooks. Of course, learning takes place in shift mode, until late afternoon hours, additional classes last up to 21.10 and lessons are held in all possible rooms. I've prepared a photo for you. For those who do not see - Mr President, you can start watching Internet transmission - this is a picture where you can see a separate end of the corridor, where young people learn, among other things. physics. That's what it looks like, down the hall. And this is the reality of your reform. [[Then let the principal fire you.]] [[And the government? Let the government fire the director.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u114	Once again, I would like to draw your attention, as we speak, in the rule of law, to ask questions. It is, of course, about deleting the article. 60 and Article 60 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 Minister Anna Zalewska wanted to comment on what Mrs Zalewska said. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, once again there are statements, interpretations, not questions about specific amendments. That's another lie, so I'm gonna have to put it down. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, after your governments, we have a shameful problem with two changes, especially in large cities, especially in Warsaw, where the buildings of individual schools were distributed as part of reprivatization. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] We must face this challenge, ladies and gentlemen. Two shifts in a gradual way must disappear from Polish schools, especially in large cities. [[On three shifts, they learn.]] I have a request to Members from Warsaw and the surrounding area to call on Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz to give up dozens of buildings for primary and secondary schools next year, because such schools are needed. [[Applause]] At the same time, it is not true, ladies and gentlemen - this is the result of reading one newspaper, in addition only titles, and not the whole development - that something is happening when it comes to excess of responsibilities, excess of lessons. [[Stop lying.]] Here Members confuse the basics of the curriculum with the timetables of the lesson, and that is the basic difference. That's the question, first of all, of the organization. As far as Class VII is concerned, one extra hour has appeared, and if there is such a rich offer of extracurricular activities somewhere, there is nothing but to enjoy and congratulate such a school. But I would ask that parents, ladies and gentlemen, ask their parole officers to properly organize the work of their children. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u116	Thank you, Minister. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 22nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 164 voted against - 272, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 23rd amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 77. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u117	Thank you, Marshal. Indeed, we are asking that this article be deleted. We care very much about one thing, and we would like the marshal to allow it, and the Minister - finally answered. We're really not asking for the impossible. There's a serious debate... [[Voice from the Chamber: The debate was.]] ...and we want an answer to why 13-year-old kids have 40 hours of lessons a week. [[That's not true.]] [[That's not true.]] Don't tell me that's not true, because I'll give you the names of the schools. 40 hours a week not because of eight years, just because you've increased the number of hours. And here's the thing. Mr. Marshal! I know that you're in charge of the rules, and I'm grateful for that, and we're all grateful. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u118	Mr President, you are not talking about the subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u119	That question can't stay unanswered because it's crazy. This concerns Polish children and their outraged parents. Have courage, ma'am. You go out and answer that question, and you don't say such things. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u120	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the amendment concerns the deletion of the article. 77, which is: a person employed as a school curator or vice-curator has certain powers, etc. [[Regulation of 1983]] Excuse me, sir, there are no children here. [[Not smart enough yet, a nightmare.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 23rd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 167 voted against - 262, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 26th amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 86 (4) of point 4. b. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Anna Białkowska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u121	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this article, you want to eliminate the position of assistant teacher. Let me remind you that the teacher's assistant is the second teacher of children to assist the teacher. Its employment is only possible if certain conditions are met. Let me just remind you that it is the local authorities that provide funding for these positions. Let the local authorities decide whether they will employ teachers' assistants. Besides, it is a good way to introduce a new teacher to work or to stop those who have been fired as a result of the reform of the Minister, at this point in time we would like to say: Minister Liquidator. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u122	Madam, I cannot classify your speech as a question. I'd ask you to pay attention to that. [[Mr. Marshal, don't comment.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 26th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 198, against 236, and no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 27th amendment to Article. 86 applicants propose to add a new wording to point 12. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u123	You want to change the rule that allows, and rightly so, the principal to fire or delete an artistic school student. Mr. Marshal, we've been asking about these 40 hours. It's not like there's nothing in this bill about it. We've asked that before, Mr. Marshal. The Minister did not answer that question. In fact, I come out provoked by the words of your marshal. Mr. Marshal! Don't let your spirits down. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr. Marshal was kind enough to say there's nothing here about children. Mr. Marshal, this is our primary... Mr. Marshal! I can't talk if you're not listening. [[Joy in the Chamber]] That's our basic charge. Mr. Marshal is absolutely right... [[Fame, you can't be listened to.]] ...there's nothing about children. There's nothing in this bill about kids, there's nothing for kids. Mr. Brudziński, don't laugh. Don't laugh because there's no reason. [[Talk to Kinga.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u124	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u125	40 hours of classes for children in schools. Thirteen-year-olds have more lessons than 15-year-olds. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u126	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u127	Nothing about children, Mr. Chairman, nothing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u128	Thank you, sir. This amendment concerns children, artistic school pupils. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 27th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The vote was 435 against - 3 nobody abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 28th amendment to the article. 91 applicants propose the existing content to be marked as paragraph. 1 and add paragraph. 2. Amendment 41 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 28th and 41st, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. The vote was 439 against - 1, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 29th amendment to the article. 95 applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 1. Amendments 31 and 40 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 29, 31 and 40 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 30th amendment to the article. 96 applicants propose to amend their appointments. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 30th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The vote was 424 against - 12, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendment 36. It's pointless. In the 37th amendment to the article. 134 applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 1 and 3 and delete point 2 of paragraph 2. 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Elżbieta Gapinska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You took the teachers' allowances out of the Teacher's Card. You show a lack of trust in the school heads, the school heads. You want to judge the morals of teachers, and your school curators don't invite the opposition to the National Education Day celebrations. You divide Members into better and worse sort and you want to share teachers as well. Then at least give gratification to teachers since 2018, not as you propose in the bill. I ask that very much on behalf of those teachers who really don't make much money. Minister, open your pocket, because if Minister Morawiecki says you have so much money in the budget, I don't think that small amount will be a problem for you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u130	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 37th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The vote was 198 against 238 and no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 38th amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the Article. 144. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Krystyna Szumilas, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister why he doesn't agree to the extension of his work to the assistants. You threw out your assistant teacher's position on this bill. You're condemning another group of teachers to unemployment, you're throwing them out on the street, but that's not enough, because the assistant teacher works with the youngest kids in school, with classes I, where parents can decide to send a six-year-old to school. You're taking away these little kids from the assistant teacher's help. You deprive the teacher of the tutor I, II and III of the assistant teacher's help. Extend this deadline by 2030 so that this issue of six-year-olds at school [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the assistant's teacher's help was extended, and the teachers didn't hit the pavement. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u132	Thank you, Member, thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 38th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 200 votes against - 239, 1 member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before voting on the whole question is asked by Joanna Schmidt, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Modern Club will vote against this bill. Some of the provisions on funding have indeed come with our support, unfortunately we will not support the whole law. Changes to the Teacher's Charter are tricked. You're saying that changes should be made boldly. We encourage you to be brave. Finally, it is time, after 30 years, for more than 30 years of functioning of the Teacher Charter to start a serious debate in this Sejm about changes to the Teacher Charter for the benefit of pupils, parents, teachers, directors, local governments. See what happens to Polish education. Talk to the parents who send their children to private schools. What's their motivation? Increasingly better teachers flee to private institutions because they have no motivation, because we cannot introduce tools that motivate them to work properly in public entities. I would very much like to encourage a fair debate about the Teacher's Charter at the Modern Club. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In such a debate, you will have your support. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u134	Thank you. Mr Urszula Augustyn, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u135	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! As far as I know, the Minister is a polonist. But when you go out and answer some of our questions, you abuse the words "not true." You straighten up and express your own truth. I'm very curious to see if she'll believe 9,000 of this truth. teachers made redundant, [[Applause]] 100,000. teachers who don't work full-time because they don't have hours. Will you believe the people who have kids in school and these kids are learning double shifts? If you don't think it's there, look at Krakow - there are children studying on Saturday. On Saturday, physical education classes are organized because there was no time. [[Then why eliminate schools?]] Minister, you say, today you also said that this is a long-awaited change. I can already imagine how much teachers expect this assessment, which you will now hold for them. An assessment of their morality. I'm sure it's as real as there's no layoffs in education. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The best way to grow up is by example. Already today I feel sorry for those children who follow the example of the Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u136	Thank you, Member. The Minister of Education, Ms Anna Zalewska, asks for the floor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! To the surprise of the total opposition, I'll start by thanking you... [[Ha, ha, ha.]] ...for good, intensive, very consistent work at a good pace, as you should work on all changes. I take every word you say as a good coin because it's worth being together at a good school, with a good teacher, for the sake of the child. And now as a summary of some references. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, and I am very happy to say this, we have the first information from the educational information system: 11,5 thousands. additional jobs. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Where are they?]] [[Voice from the room: Lying.]] [[Then why did you fire people?]] These are, ladies and gentlemen, hard data, every director and every local government must enter this data into the educational information system, because on this basis money is paid. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, the wording was here, among others. concerning assistants. We're not throwing anybody out. There aren't many of them because this experiment just didn't work. They were people to pretend that they were taking care of children in the common room in the first place within free hours. [[A voice from the room: No!]] [[Not in the lounge.]] At the moment, ladies and gentlemen, there are professionals working in the lounge, and assistants have the time and opportunity to become full-fledged teachers employed under the salary. [[These are teachers working in classes I-III.]] At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, it is in this Teacher's Charter that we finally call our teacher a supporting teacher and we say that he has 20 hours of salary to actually lead inclusive education, which is the 21st century. There were wordings here, and it was said that not every teacher would receive a raise. Ladies and gentlemen, since April 2018, and this is additional money for educational grants, each teacher will receive a raise... [[3%, not 5.]] ...and every teacher, on every level of promotion, has the right to receive an allowance for a distinctive job. [[There isn't.]] Professional promotion can always be reduced to 9 years, ladies and gentlemen. This is an offer for the best... [[But you're prolonging it.]] ...for those of the best who will work for a better quality education of our children. Ladies and gentlemen, the wording of the non-support of local governments fell. Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time, local governments are taken so seriously. Let me remind you: 1.5 billion PLN per six-year-old in kindergarten. The Civic Platform and the PSL never thought about it. [[Lie! What are you talking about?]] [[You're lying.]] [[The six-year-old grant was at school.]] Instead of PLN 1300 for a six-year-old in kindergarten - 4300. PLN 418 for the valorization of the teacher's salary. I remind you, the last raises were in 2012... [[But it's 44%.]] ...and the Civic Platform and the PSL have requested that the local authorities find them in this subsidy they have already received. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, almost PLN 1 billion directly for additional jobs resulting from the reform. The budget reserve 0,4 for the financing of all that results from the transformations. Every government that asked for this received more than 80%. There were also statements to which I would refer concerning the secret names of experts. But it doesn't matter, ladies and gentlemen, on the website. And don't even try to argue with me... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] ...with an amount of 800,000, which was given to dozens of people, because your change in the basis of the program cost almost PLN 1 billion. [[That's not true.]] At the same time there were emotional speeches about the fact that children are overworked, that this is the result of the transformation. That is not true, or it is against the law. [[Minister, not true, bravo.]] I remind you: the framework plan is clearly 32 to 34 hours in class VIII... [[But 37...]] ...then you should ask the director why he's breaking the law. VII and VIII. [[Voice from the room: There is no VIII.]] This is, ladies and gentlemen, more than 32...34.. That's not gonna happen. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, thank you again. Let us also try in the case of the budget together with the governing coalition to support the funding of raises for teachers. Thank you so much for your work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u138	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1897, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. The vote was 274 against - 161, 7 Members abstained. The Sejm passed a law on the financing of educational tasks. We return to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies and the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law on the National Education Network. We proceed to the third reading. The committee's report is in print No 1899-A. I ask Mrs Iwona Michalek to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u139	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to present the report of the joint committees: the Committee on Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies and the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law on the National Education Network. I say: with real pleasure, because it is a project perfectly prepared by the team of Minister Marek Zagórski, accepted by all the Members of the Joint Committee unanimously. I would like to ask you to adopt this much-needed law, which will equalise the educational opportunities of children in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u140	Thank you, Member. I remind you, it's 1899. In the additional report, the committees also present amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. 11 applicants propose that the operator of the National Education Network may also bear expenditure in order to carry out the tasks referred to in Article. 6. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 426 against - 1 with 3. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 13 applicants propose that the OSE operator submit an application for a targeted grant by 31 December 2017. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 426 voted in favour, no one voted against, 4 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 3rd amendment to Chapter 4 the applicants propose an editorial amendment. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 427 voted in favour, no one voted against, three Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 19 applicants shall propose that Article. 13 entered into force on the date of publication of the bill. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The vote was 428 against - 1 with 4 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1899, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 430, no one voted against, two Members abstained. The Sejm passed a law on the National Education Network. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government bill amending the Tax Order Act. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Law No 1901. The question is asked by Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! With the proverbial Pole stupid before harm and after injury you are actually trying to do the norm. The proposals for changes to the Tax Order contain a provision which unfortunately allows to obtain information about the counterparty only after issuing an invoice or signing a contract, instead of allowing such information, of course with the agreement of the taxpayer, before concluding a contract and issuing an invoice. It's really completely incomprehensible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u142	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The fight against tax fraud, above all VAT, is at the moment a matter of our state's right. I even believe that part of our modern patriotism is that we should win this war. She is not easy and requires sacrifices, but in this change that we are now making, it is the cost that is not to be borne by those who gain in this war. If the Treasury is gaining, then why are these certificates we are talking about... In the case of some entrepreneurs, and small entrepreneurs, sometimes they have e.g. $1,000. counterparties. Unfortunately, a fee has been introduced, i.e. in order to check its counterparties, this trader must pay 17 thousand. zł. I don't think that's a good idea. We thought, unfortunately, that each of the entrepreneurs in some sense bears the risk through contacts with people who are not honest, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And we have to agree with that these days, but we should not charge them with specific costs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u144	Thank you. In this case, the Deputy Minister of Finance Wiesław Janczyk wishes to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In our view, Mr President, there is no need to check all of your counterparties, because entrepreneurs, business partners, creating a customer base, have many reliable customers in this database, so this conversion factor that you have applied here, as regards the costs of checking for all business partners, is highly unauthorised. However, to answer the first question, Mr Cichoń, I would like to inform you that it is possible to check the counterparty before entering into the transaction after obtaining his consent. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u146	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1901 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 438 voted against - 1st Member abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Tax Order Act. We are returning to the review of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the excise duty law and the Act on the organisation of certain agricultural markets. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1926. The questions are raised by Mr Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u147	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Why does the government take Members and their voters seriously without answering questions during the second reading? I guess the questions were very inconvenient, which is why I'm going to ask simpler today. What tax damage was suffered by the state budget due to the failure to approve Kukiz15 for 20 months from print No 303, which in its solutions is identical to the current government project for intermediary tobacco operators? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[But it wasn't PiS-owski.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u148	Minister Janczyk. The case is well known, isn't it? All the time? Yeah, maybe. However, you will take the floor. Deputy Minister of Finance Wiesław Janczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, we are consistently introducing solutions aimed at eliminating, limiting the gray zone in the tobacco market. We want the tradition of tobacco cultivation, which in Poland is developed and many years... Poland is one of the largest European producers alongside Spain, Italy and Greece. These solutions, which we have already put in place, have produced really good results. This is a matter of limiting the gray area from 18 to 14%. the market, which in the legal sphere is estimated at about PLN 27 billion and concerns the production of around 12 thousand. agricultural holdings on an area of approximately 1 ha, i.e. 12 thousand. ha. Ladies and gentlemen, these projects were not the same, but the truth is that we need time to consult with the environment, with the producer groups, each solution so that these solutions are introduced with the acceptance of the stakeholders and to be responsible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u150	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1926, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The vote was 391 against - 15, 32 Members abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the excise tax law and the law on the organisation of certain agricultural markets. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government bill amending the Act on Local Taxes and Charges. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1925. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1925 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 424 voted against - 13, 1 member abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on local taxes and charges. We return to the review of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals. We proceed to the third reading. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1943-A. I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! At yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Public Finances, the amendments tabled at the second reading of this draft law were considered. 15 amendments were tabled. Amendments 2, 10 and 11 were positive and the other amendments were rejected. On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I recommend that this draft Print Act No 1878 be adopted together with the amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u152	Good. We will vote first on the amendments that the Member has spoken about and presented to the committee. In the 4th amendment to the article. 1 amendment of the 17th Law amending the applicants propose that the tax reduction amount should be fixed at PLN 5481 18 gr. Amendments 1, 6, 8 and 9 relate to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission, I remind you, requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 5. The question is asked by Paweł Grabowski, a Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u153	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question. Why are you misleading Poles by saying that you increase the tax-free amount to 8 thousand? Evil? After all, this increase applies only to those who earn about 700 PLN per month or less, while if someone is already so rich that he earns 1100 PLN or more, he has a tax-free amount at a level that has not changed for many years, or 3091 PLN. It is a pretense, misleading Poles. Some even believed that they had such a tax-free amount. To all those who believe that the PiS increases their tax-free amount, I recommend looking at my PIT. Then, as you will see, you will find that no tax-free amount has been increased. For this reason, Kukiz (15 against the entire Sejm Society here, the entire High House consistently calls for an increase of the tax-free amount to the amount of 30,000. zł, i.e. the amount that everyone here, the Members of the House, has. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u154	Thank you. Then we shall proceed to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 1, 4, 6, 8 and 9, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The vote was 176 against - 234, 23 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. 1 amendment of paragraph 7. and applicants propose, among other things, that tax-free benefits be specified received by pensioners up to EUR 3 000. PLN in the tax year. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The vote was 428 against - 6, 3 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 1 amendment 8. lit. d and e applicants propose that the cost of obtaining income, inter alia. the use of copyright by authors was 50% regardless of the amount of revenue. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project envisages an increase in the annual limit of application of 50% This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives set out in Article 21 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No This limit is to be increased to PLN 85 528. Why do designers refuse to give up the limit at all? This is justified in substance, because such an argument has even been put forward in the project, and in view of the excellent, as we hear, the budgetary situation is also justified on the fiscal side. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u156	Please. With regard to this bill, the government represents Deputy Minister of Finance Paweł Gruza. If the Minister would like to answer the question of the Member, go ahead. Is Minister Gruza here, or isn't he? [[There isn't. He's ashamed.]] [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] [[Voice from the room: They don't know what to say.]] [[Voice from the hall: If you don't know what to say, tell the truth.]] Don't yell.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u157	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It seems that in this financial situation in which we are in this twice increased relief is a very generous gesture of the fiscal towards the creators. I think it's enough at this stage. We will monitor the impact and implementation of this additional privilege. We are, of course, open in future financial years for further modifications. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u158	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 194 voted against - 230 and 3 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 1 amendment 17. The applicants propose that the tax reduction amount should be fixed at PLN 1440. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u159	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Free amount of 8,000. Zloty was a flagship proposal in your election campaign. The president talked about it, and he also spoke to the PiS during his campaign. It's been two years, and in fact, outside of a little trick, you've done nothing about it, and the moment we remind you of it, you pretend it's just raining. He reminded you of Kukiz.15 even today, it reminded you of Modern, and so do we. Every time we hear it's just raining. Two years it rains and it rains. I therefore have a question about who is responsible for such radical climate change in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u160	When it comes to climate as such, it is not a question about climate. [[The joy, the excitement in the room.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Something like that.]] Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u161	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! Is it true that the explanatory memorandum to the project indicates that finally the promise of Prime Minister Beata Szydło from the exposé to increase the amount free for all taxpayers to 8 000 is being fulfilled. Evil? Reading this justification, I believed it, but later, reading the provisions of the Act, I said that unfortunately the Minister did not prepare the rules in accordance with the intention of the Prime Minister. Hence the Modern Amendment, which corrects this obvious mistake and makes us finally justified and compatible with each other. I hope that the Members and Members of the Law and Justice will not vote against the amendment that the Prime Minister has introduced and promised. I don't think you're voting against your own Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u162	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 198 voted against - 229, 3 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 1 applicants propose to delete the 20th amendment introducing income tax on property revenue of a building whose initial value exceeds PLN 10 million. Amendment 14 is related to this amendment, on which we will vote together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, You're introducing a new tax through the back door because you're actually taxing shops and shopping malls, large-area shops. I ignore that the design, location of the best professionals in Poland is astonished by the fact that it is an unconstitutional solution because it violates the constitutional principles of equality - art. 32 - and the universality of taxation - Article. 84. Therefore, I ask you whether you are aware that this is a tax that is entirely transferable and that this tax will pay Polish families in fact, will pay more for already expensive butter today, more for expensive bread, more for vegetables, meat and all other articles. Why do you give this to Polish families, Polish families? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Households? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u164	Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u165	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! If it's so good, why is it so bad? You are introducing a new tax, a property tax, so that we are faced with double taxation - once property tax is levied by local government units, and now you want to collect tax from the same object. What's the stakes? 50% profit. You have set up a rate that will result in this type of taxation. In addition, this tax violates many principles - universality, equal taxation. I will not agree here with my previous speaker that consumers will pay. No, no one's gonna pay that tax. All you have to do is go to the administrative court. No administrative court will support such tax decisions [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a psychic tax. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u166	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 7 and 14 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 203 voted against - 230, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 10th amendment to the article. 2 applicants propose to make a new wording to amend the 6th and paragraph. And in shift 22. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Its adoption will result in the unsubstantiatedness of Amendment 13. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Please. I don't know what's going on, sir, but please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u167	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! It's nice, I'm not saying it's not. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Minister, the deletion of point 4e in amendment 22 will increase the prices of all agricultural services provided by legal entities to hundreds of thousands of agricultural holdings in Poland, as this tax will be included in the costs of this service. Minister, you want to tell me - I am saying this to the Undersecretary of the State of Mr Paul Gruza - that, due to two, three entities, maybe 10 entities who are brazenly cheating, from 900 entities, the decision to end this development relief is appropriate. Minister - I am speaking to Mr Paul Gruza - I have convinced you twice and I have given you a chance to explain yourself, I am giving you a third time now. [[Joy in the Chamber]] If you don't accept that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And he's not gonna change his position, so I'm gonna put you on the list...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u168	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u169	...Eagles... [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] ...the ministers I have in my resources. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u170	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u171	And farmers, I'm quite serious...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u172	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u173	...I don't know if the ministers are gonna beat up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u174	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u175	Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u176	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. [[Voice from the Chamber: Vote, vote.]] Who's against it? [[Vote or we'll lose.]] [[The Minister should answer.]] [[It's true.]] Who's holding back? Thank you, sir. 430 Members voted. 284 votes against - 143, 3 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. [[Voice from the room: Bis!]] [[Voice from the room: More, more!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] The Minister didn't want to speak. [[Voice from the room: Eagle Platform.]] [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] In the 11th amendment to the article. 2 changes 13 and 19. applicants propose that certain provisions apply to deductions made by taxable persons applying International Accounting Standards. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. There were 395 votes against, 29 votes against, and no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. 2 amendment 16. The applicants propose that a financial undertaking within the meaning of the Act should only be a cooperative credit and savings bank. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u177	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! You weren't generous enough to submit this project so that the National Money would enjoy the privilege of tax relief. So what happened that you are introducing, as usual, a relief for the National Bank - for this mismanagement, for having to contribute to the failing Polish government of PLN 5 billion? Why was such an amendment for the National Money made for mismanagement, contrary to your project? For the SKOKs, for the banks - we understand and we are in favour. But the country for the National Cashier, from which money was especially drawn, gives you additional relief. It is not our agreement to give money to the SKOKs with the generous hand of television. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u178	Thank you, Member. You? No. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 204 voted against - 233 Members, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. The 13th amendment is without object. In the 15th amendment to the article. 3 Amendment 3. The applicants propose to leave the existing provisions providing that rental revenues are taxed on a flat-rate basis on revenues recorded at 8,5%. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! This is another example of PiS' greed and greed, because it's another tax raise, contrary to your declarations, that you won't. You raise tax in the sensitive sphere, because you raise tax mainly when it comes to apartments that are rented to young Polish families, young people who will pay more for these apartments after this change. The rent prices will increase, and maybe the gray area will increase. The safety of this lease will be affected, prices will rise, young Polish families will suffer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u180	Thank you. Mr Mierosław Pampuch, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u181	Mr. Marshal, Mirosław. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! During the previous PiS governments in 2005 and 2007, this party promised 3 million apartments. We know how many of these apartments were built. It's a null. Now the apartment+ program is being introduced, only who has seen the apartment+ program. Given the words of the classics, not so much of this program is poop stones as the sand poop, because the president threw a little bit of sand with a shovel, so much we see from the program Living+. Instead, you're trying to tax a higher rate, 12.5%. ,just investing in new apartments. This is actually a specific concept of pro-investment activity, [[♪ The bell ♪]] not only that entrepreneurs will not invest, but now you also do not allow ordinary people to put their savings in the apartment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u182	Thank you, sir. I didn't hear any questions. Mr. Member, Mr. President... [[Joy in the Chamber]] The Minister wanted to speak. Deputy Minister of Finance Paweł Gruza. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u183	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is not a new tax. This is sealing and eliminating abuse. I would like to remind you that the housing allowance and the preferential rate of taxation served an occasional hire rather than a rental that is already becoming such a classic business activity. We've accepted a limit of 100,000. zł as a border between this occasional rental and a certain professional rental activity. This professional activity of renting apartments will be taxed slightly higher tax. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u184	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 207 votes against - 232, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In a minority application, applicants propose to add an article. 6a. The question is raised by Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u185	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, do you know how important the stability of the law is to society? Do you know how important the principle of Roman law is to prevent the law from working backwards? I feel like the tax system, the tax law doesn't apply. It is this amendment that aims to ensure that the law does not work backwards. Well, if a businessman has incurred the cost, invested his money in the idea that he will be able to deduct or absorb the cost for the next few years, deduct it from the tax, then after he has made his investment, you will take away that opportunity. We just want entrepreneurs to feel a little more stable in this country. Like you, Minister, you want to convince any investor to invest at least a zloty in Poland if this investor has no guarantee [[♪ The bell ♪]] that after a year, after two years, no additional taxes will be imposed on him, acting backwards? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u186	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting a minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The vote was 201 against - 228, with 4 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Before voting on the whole draft law, the Members of the European Parliament shall submit their questions. Mr Janusz Cichoń, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Prime Minister, When will the greed and greed of the PiS end? You reach deeper and deeper into the pockets of Polish families. It is not enough for you to keep VAT up to 23%, because in fact an effective tax rate is higher. You will not be satisfied with bank tax and higher maintenance costs of bank accounts. You don't need a higher OC. You are introducing new fees in energy, water, garbage, and now you are taxing shops when you seal the tax system and implement the European directive. In fact, you are raising the prices of most articles that buy Polish families. You raise rent prices, you also raise rent prices in agriculture. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Once again, I repeat the question: When will this greed and greed end? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u188	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u189	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! We very often hear that we are dealing with tax sealing and, of course, with greater tax revenues. But it is not surprising, since over the last two years the government has increased the rate of VAT from 22% to 23%, introduced trade tax, banking tax, also introduced increases in water, electricity, gas prices. It's all a burden on an average Pole. These laws instead of the promised CIT reduction for small and medium-sized enterprises up to 15% you introduce additional taxes: commercial property tax, finally rental tax and additional tax for individual farmers, which will significantly reduce the profitability of farming. I have the following question. Tell me when [[♪ The bell ♪]] You will tell the Poles the truth. [[Applause]] [[Never.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u190	Thank you. Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u191	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said at the Economic Convention of Law and Justice that all promises had been fulfilled without raising taxes. This lie is repeated to this day by many politicians of Law and Justice. I have a question for you: When will you stand in front of the mirror, look at yourselves and confess before you, but above all to the citizens, that yes, you raise taxes? Even this bill is one big lie. You say that this law reduces taxation. Yes, you did half of the Kukiz15's demand for relief for the creators, while on the occasion of this relief you introduced a number of new taxes and increased a number of current taxes. Just look at the last paragraph of the justification for the project, [[♪ The bell ♪]] in which it is written, what is the budgetary importance of this project. How can a project to increase revenue to the state budget by PLN 1 billion be called a tax reduction?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u192	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u193	Admit it, it's a tax raise. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u194	Mr Soboń, Club of Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have dealt with fairly open, we have to say, as this House defends foreign trade galleries. So I inform you: the time when large, large foreign shopping malls did not pay income taxes in Poland, just today ends. [[Applause]] Creative accounting ends, i.e. reducing the operating result with other costs. It ends with a simple money-taking process, e.g. for consulting services abroad, so as not to pay taxes. [[Tell me about the skoks.]] Minister, I have a question for you: Is this bill a step towards making Polish taxpayers of income tax not only small and medium-sized enterprises but also large foreign corporations? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[How's it going with those skoks?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u196	Thank you. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Paweł Gruza, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u197	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Over the last two terms, VAT revenues have decreased by 1/3 despite maintaining the same nominal corporate income tax rate of 19%. [[Krystyna, don't eat.]] This means that during the last two terms in the CIT Act itself and interpretations there are many gaps that we are fixing today. We're not raising taxes, we're fixing the gaps we've been working for the last eight years in this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u198	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1943, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 240 votes against - 189, 10 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 1895. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1895, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm unanimously passed a law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws. We return to the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the Government bill amending the Act on Civil Records. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1902. The question was raised by Jerzy Meysztowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u199	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This Modern Law, of course, will support it, because we think it is reasonable. However, I have a question for the Minister: At what stage are preparations for the introduction of the possibility of electronic check-in and check-out? This is one of the amenities that this bill introduces. The question is: How much will it cost, and at what stage are the preparations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u200	Thank you. Mr Bartosz Józwiak, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u201	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This law ultimately restores the reporting obligation in Poland with all consequences if this obligation is not fulfilled. So, in fact, ideally and conceptually, we go back to the 1960s when this evil compulsion was invented for the citizens of Poland. In fact, it does not really matter whether you are introducing facilitations, some electronic facilities or simplifications in the performance of this obligation. You restore the reporting obligation to Poles, and we cannot accept it, because we have always stood on the side of facilitation for people, on the side of the elimination of coercion, bureaucracy and freedom. We will not give ourselves and Polish citizens will not be locked in the golden cage you are giving us. We want the right to freedom, we want the right to defend and the tools to defend it. Is it really difficult to stand, ladies and gentlemen, on the citizens' side instead of on the side of a bureaucratic apparatus? Is that so hard? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u202	Mr Robert Winnicki, Member of the non-member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u203	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question arises, where is the point here and where is the logic in this restoration of the reporting obligation, including punishment for the lack of it, in a situation where there is an increasing mobility of the population, including within the country, especially within the country. People move, people change their place of residence, especially young people. This causes unnecessary obstacles, does not make anything easier, for statistical purposes probably even obscures, and does not give any picture. This is also inconsistent with what was done. I know it wasn't you, but it was in previous years, in previous terms, e.g. disappears from the identity card address of residence, check-in. It's just an anachronism inconsistent, illogical and unnecessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u204	Thank you. These questions will be addressed by the Deputy Minister of Administration Jarosław Zieliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It is not true that this bill restores reporting obligations. The reporting obligation exists, and the Civic Platform has been working towards this since 2008 and has written it down in the bill to abolish it, but has itself postponed the date of entry into force of the Act and the moment when the obligation will cease to exist. We observed many times that the abolition of the reporting obligation would introduce chaos in the Polish state in many areas, but the Platform and PSL did not listen to it, they continued in this direction. Now we finally make it clear that there will be no abolition of the reporting obligation, it will be maintained. Of course, we are introducing amenities, above all, that we will be able to report and check out on the Internet, so this is a very large simplification, facilitation. On the other hand, we never agreed that the obligation would disappear. We do not want the chaos in the electoral field, we do not want the chaos in the field of education, social assistance, tax and tax settlements, in many other areas of public life. We weren't going to chaoticize you. We were never going to chaoticize you. We weren't going to chaoticize you. The Civic Platform and PSL have tried to do this, but now, interestingly, it is an announcement that both POs and PSLs will vote in favour of this law, i.e. so that the reporting obligation does not disappear. So you've been lying to Poles about your aspirations all this time since 2008... [[Don't lie to me. Stop lying.]] ...that you want to lift the reporting obligation. You were never prepared for this, and now, fortunately, finally... [[Voice from the room: Stop lying.]] Don't yell. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] ...you admit we're right, but 10 years too late, 9 o'clock, but we still are. We'll vote it out. [[Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u206	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1902, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 349 votes against - 41 and 39 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Civil Records Act. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the government draft law amending the Law on the Protection of Mental Health and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1921. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety in print no. 1921, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 412 against - 5, 15 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on the Protection of Mental Health and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Health Committee on the Government's draft law on basic health care. We proceed to the third reading. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1940-A. I ask Mr Tomasz Latos to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u207	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Health, I have the honour to present an additional report on the government draft law on basic health care, print No 1940-A. At second reading, a proposal was made to reject the draft law and one amendment. The Commission recommends rejecting the proposal to reject the draft law and recommends rejecting the amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u208	Thank you. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. As we have heard, the committee requests that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. The question is raised by Jerzy Kozłowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u209	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister of Health. In this draft law in art. 10 you are talking about a declaration in which you will choose a doctor. In the mouth. The 3rd article states that such a patient is to have an e-mail address. We all know that in Poland very many people, especially older ones, do not have such an email address. There isn't. I think there's also a lot of people who don't have a phone, and there's also a requirement in one of the points. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister of Health: Will such persons who do not have their e-mail address be able to report to the doctor of the POZ? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[That's the kind of person that's gonna die.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u210	Please. Mr Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u211	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At the first reading of this bill, all the governing and opposition clubs expressed great joy and willingness to process the modern law on basic health care. Unfortunately, it turned out that the state had been preparing the project for 18 months, consulting it with all medical environments, and then, at the end of the vote, none of those environments that co-created the bill, you did not take into account. The proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety is not a political proposal prepared by one group, but a proposal that we have submitted at the request of representatives of the medical professions working in primary health care and at the request of a huge number of patients who have filled us with information, mainly in the form of e-mail, on the fact that the law in this form [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's unacceptable. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u212	Thank you. I didn't actually hear the question here. Mr Kozłowski asked a question. Would Minister Zbigniew the King like to answer? Please. Mr Konstanty Radziwiłł, Minister of Health. There you go. [[You have to go to the resident doctors.]] Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for the opportunity to answer this question and, by the way, Mrs Gądek's attention. Short question and short answer: The e-mail address in the declaration is optional and therefore there is no problem for people who do not have this address. There's no problem here. As regards Mrs Gądek's general attention, I would like to say that the Basic Healthcare Act is indeed, as you rightly pointed out, a law which has been consulted with all the environments for a very long time, not only medical environments but also patient environments, and it seems to be its very great advantage and power. It is a difficult act, a groundbreaking act, in the Polish healthcare system, an act of the party implementing an element of the Law and Justice programme. It can therefore not be surprising to anyone that basic health care will finally have a separate legal act at the level of the law. At the same time, it is consulted in depth with very many environments and, thanks to this, we can say that we are aiming to make maximum number of environments support the implementation of this law. When it comes to implementation, it is also out of caution, because it is a systemic change, we will implement it on a pilot basis. This is also, you might say, the first solution of this kind. We do not want to cause disturbances throughout the whole system if they threaten us, and that is why in the first period it will be implemented by those who wish to participate in this piloting. We have no doubt about the quality of the proposed solutions, but surely such a formula will result in even greater support for the whole environment involved. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is extremely important that it will soon come into force to complement the first stage of the reforms of the health system, which is a network of hospitals, which, I can say today, is working really well. [[Jesus.]] On the other side of primary healthcare we will have a situation that will complement and support the patient above all. Because the point is to look at the health care system from the perspective of a patient who is lost in the system today and who needs the support of the coordinator not only at the level of primary health care, which will be primarily the family doctor, but also the whole team that will work with him, even if the patient needs specialist care, hospital care. [[Where's the money?]] This coordination is in a complicated system today... [[You don't believe what you're saying.]] ...health services and in very advanced medicine extremely needed. I very much urge you to support this bill, which will be groundbreaking... [[The truth has to be told, not the witchcraft.]] ...in terms of strengthening the situation of the patient in the health care system. [[Why are they protesting?]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u214	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the draft law contained in the 1940 print, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 203 votes against - 236. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the only amendment to the article. 6 applicants shall propose in paragraph. 1 add point 5 and add the new wording of paragraph. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mrs Alice Chybick, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u215	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This amendment removes, actually restores, because the bill removes internists from POZ in 2025. Why are you doing this? The situation is even worse, because at the moment, according to the provisions of the Act, as of 1 January 2018, he will lose more than 1,000 jobs. family doctors, which means leaving 2 million Poles unattended who do not know that they will. Minister, please respond. We've got a generation gap. There's not enough family doctors. What you are proposing will put health care after 2025, because you are not, we are not able to educate family doctors enough [[♪ The bell ♪]] quantities up to 2025 [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u216	Thank you. The Minister will respond. Minister Konstanty Radziwiłł answers the question of Mrs Radziwił.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u217	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! None of the doctors will lose their jobs, it's just an incorrect reading of the bill. Doctors who are currently working will retain their ability to operate in basic healthcare as they have so far. As far as the perspective is concerned, we would really like only family doctors and children's pediatricians to be part of primary healthcare. This can be said to be in accordance with the opinion of the World Health Organisation, how basic health care should function. By the way, we're ultimately short on internists, too. This is one of the deficit specialties that are mostly lacking in hospitals, and it does not seem that ultimately - I stress: in the end, because we are talking about 2025 - it made sense to deepen these deficiencies even further. I firmly believe that such a solution, which, on the one hand, guarantees all those who are already working in the POZ, the possibility of continuing their work and, on the other hand, relying on these two specialties in the future, is a modern solution, the best one, especially for patients. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u218	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 197, against - 236, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. With regard to the entire draft law, the question is asked by Jerzy Kozłowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u219	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question just from the perspective of this lost patient, as the Minister said. We know how few doctors are in the Polish health system, even fewer nurses, long queues, no diagnostics, there is no possibility of getting a doctor's first contact because there is no separate budget for this, there is no prevention. In this bill I did not see any record that would solve any of these problems. From this bill there will be no doctors, no nurses, there is still no separate budget for diagnostics, nothing about prevention. POZs are in the composition they are in, there are no physiotherapists in these POZs, there are no psychologists. What's the change for me? Therefore, I have a question from the perspective of the patient: please answer, Minister, from my perspective, to all Poles and Poles, what tangible benefits they will bring. [[♪ The bell ♪]] patients with this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u220	Thank you. Mr Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club, will also speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u221	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! If it is as wonderful as you said, why are thousands of young people and now older health workers protesting all over Poland? It's not just a hunger protest, it's marches of support for protesters, it's more and more patients joining the protest. I have such a question, since you have prepared such an excellent bill, we also asked about it in committees, we asked in a special team: Where do we write this wish concert, which is where in the act is the provision which speaks about financing in individual years of the basic health care activities? You write that by 2025 you want to allocate 20% budget of the National Health Fund and in return to reach 80% health benefits. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I agree with that. Write it down in the bill...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u222	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u223	... We will all vote in favour. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u224	Thank you, Member. The Minister wants to answer that question. Minister of Health Konstanty Radziwiłł.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u225	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! To answer Mr Kozłowski's question, I would like to point out that he probably did not fully read the bill, and perhaps he did not notice that, as far as diagnosis is concerned, we are providing for the budget entrusted, and therefore taking the amount of capital funding for diagnosis out of the rate of... [[It's not a diagnostic. It's a specialist.]] ...which should fundamentally change the situation that is being criticised today. As regards other professionals, as well as other parts of the health system, it must be said that this law imposes a whole range of obligations, a whole list of cooperation obligations, cooperation on both sides: it imposes obligations on the primary health care doctor, who will be the coordinator, but also on other participants in the health system, including certain organisations, institutions, e.g. administration, which has some responsibilities in this area, cooperation obligations. What's the patient gonna get out of all this? Maybe not even a patient, just every citizen, because I note that in primary health care we are often dealing with a ward, not a patient, with people who are not sick or who have not been diagnosed with diseases. Coordination and comprehensiveness - these are the two words that are the key to these changes that we are making. As for Mrs Gądek's comments... [[Question.]] ...I wanted to point out that the lack of family doctors, the unwillingness of doctors to employ in primary health care, the eternal struggles in primary health care, as well as periodically closed offices, especially on January 1st, as we all remember, were the characteristics of previous governments of the Civic Platform and PSL. [[Applause]] [[And which side were you on then?]] [[The previous minister spoke to them.]] We want to change this, not only by drafting a law, by preparing it also in cooperation with those concerned, but above all by introducing a whole range of financial solutions, because that is also what you asked, which is that it will not be, as before, a naked capital charge... [[Three days were closed, not...]] ...not encouraging work, not stimulating activity, only this will be a capital charge strengthened by a fund or a task-based remuneration, especially in terms of prevention and health promotion, as well as supplemented by results-based corrections, which is an absolute novel in the Polish healthcare system, and will, firstly, respond to the patient's needs and, secondly, encourage the real activity of both the doctor and other members of the primary healthcare team. I'm asking you to support the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u226	Thank you. [[Formal conclusion.]] We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. [[But a formal conclusion, Mr. Marshal.]] [[But, Marshal...]] [[From Mrs. Gądek's platform, she's already spoken.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in the 1940 print version, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 229, against - 198, with two abstentions. The Sejm passed the Basic Healthcare Act. We are returning to the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Commission's draft law amending the law on local government. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are requesting the adoption of the project from print no. 1886. The question is asked by Mr Jacek Protas, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The necessity of such an amendment to the Municipal Government Act is directly due to the unprecedented forceful expansion of the borders of the city of Opola, with the trampling of the will of the inhabitants, of course to the detriment of the communes of Łodziń Wielki. Prime Minister! I have two questions. Firstly, has the government taken action to prepare such legal solutions, as expected by local authorities, so that such practices do not take place in the future? Secondly, I ask whether, in accordance with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, you have started, and if not, then when you start, actions to establish the municipality of Grabówka [[♪ The bell ♪]] in Podlaskie Voivodship. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u228	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft print law 1886 in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 428, 1 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Municipal Government Act. We are returning to the review of item 16 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government bill amending the Law on the System of Military Courts. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1942. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The draft law is intended to align the Law on the regime of military courts with the recently amended Law on the regime of universal courts. The area of military courts is another area of justice that you destroy by your destructive force. On the other hand, I wanted to ask about the second element of this law, about the jury. This draft law drastically reduces the requirements for jurors in military courts. To become this jury today, you have to have a good reputation. This may be decided by the court in disciplinary proceedings. Then you can't be that jury. This law makes those who are considered to be, and not punished, to be those who violate these conditions, able to serve as a juror. Minister Macierewicz! Tell me, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Who are you going to sit in these courts as jurors?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u230	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u231	The jury should be like Caesar's wife...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u232	Mr Boris Budka, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u233	...and you want to put people of questionable reputation there. [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u234	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u235	This law cannot be supported. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u236	Mr Boris Budka has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u237	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The bill is part of the justice system, part of the system that you have been systematically ruining since the first day of this bad change. But on the occasion that there is a Minister of Justice in the Chamber, I would ask and appeal for the Prime Minister to oblige the Minister to explain and refer to the appalling information that has been heard by the Polish public. Is it true that you are beginning in Polish courts to implement this principle, which you have sought, that is, party courts? Is it true that you want to reward the state for the loyalty of the parties by standing in courts? Warsaw, Suwałki, these are the places where you carry out your obsessive ideology, that the courts must be in your hands, not independent. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u238	Mr President, you have left with a question from the fact that I am going to say things. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1942, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. The vote was 381 against - 37, 5 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on the system of military courts. We return to the consideration of item 17 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the legal environment of innovative activities. The discussion requested that the bill be submitted to the Commission for Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies, the Commission for Education, Science and Youth and the Commission for Public Finance. The proposal adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm is to refer the draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for Deregulation. I will put to the vote the proposal given by the Sejm Bureau. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm referred the draft law to the three committees mentioned above for consideration. The question is asked by Mr Paweł Pudłowski, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u239	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I ask you why, in the case of a small innovation law, because that is what we called this law earlier, the law that was addressed to the education committee, the finance committee and the digitalization committee that I led... Everything was fine, and now you're sending this bill to the Extraordinary Committee on Deregulation. Why? Why cut it short? As I recall, in the case of a small law on innovation, the amendments tabled at our committee were very pleasing to you. They liked it so much that you didn't accept them as ours, but they came back reported by you slightly changed. So that I think it's worth sending a project to these three committees that are keenly interested in how business could work with education. Perhaps you could avoid the mistakes that occurred at the first event, however, when tax offices unfortunately did not accept R&D investment expenditure. So that I ask you to consider, however, that you refer the project to the three committees that you have just mentioned. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u240	Thank you very much. We don't have to answer, or the Sejm will decide. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of sending the draft law in print No. 1934 to the Extraordinary Committee on Deregulation will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 386, against - 42, with three abstentions. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We would like to return to the discussion of item 19 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the celebration of the 95th anniversary of the Association of Poles in Germany. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1908. High Seym! I kindly inform you that in addition to the gathered and listening journalists we also host a delegation of the Polish Union in Germany with Vice-President Anna Wawrzyszko at the gallery. Welcome. [[Applause]] At the moment, I ask the rapporteur to read the text of the resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u241	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a resolution on the celebration of the 95th anniversary of the Polish Union in Germany. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The association of Poles in Germany, the oldest Polish organization bringing together our compatriots living in the Federal Republic of Germany, celebrated the 95th anniversary of its uprising in August this year. Since its founding in 1922, the Polish Union in Germany has been protecting the interests of the Polish national minority and the Polish cultural and historical heritage located within the German borders. He actively engaged in political, educational and economic life, becoming a bridge between the two nations. After 10 years of its existence, the Union accepted as its sign Rodo - a symbol of communication between Poles and the nation, representing the white contour of the Vistula with the marked Krakow on the red background. The '30s. The 20th century is a period of increasing German repression against Poles living in the country, in which the Union's activists stood their defenses. It is also a time when five truths of the Pole adopted during the First Congress of Poles in Germany in March 1938 were accepted as the basis for the ideal activity of the Union. It's worth remembering today. They are as follows: 1. We're Poles. 2. The faith of our Fathers is the faith of our children. 3. A Pole is a brother to a Pole. 4. Every day, the National Pole serves. 5. Poland Our Mother - we must not speak ill of Mother. The start of World War II by Germany has dramatically interrupted the Union's activities. He was delegated, and his estate was confiscated. Some of the activists were shot and more than a thousand were imprisoned in German concentration camps. We will never forget members of the Union who at that time could sacrifice everything they had the most valuable, even life, for the Polish cause. After the war, the Union continued its Polish activities in difficult circumstances, without the support of the authorities of the Polish People's Republic. Today, at a time when Poland and Germany connect friendly neighbourhoods, the Union's actions aim to provide the Poles with help from the German federal and local authorities adequate to support the German minority in Poland. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland supports these actions, as well as supports the long-standing request to restore the status of a national minority to Poles in the Federal Republic of Germany which was unlawfully removed in 1940. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland, wishing to celebrate the 95th anniversary of the founding of the Polish Union in Germany, expresses respect for all its activists who contributed to the preservation of Polishness. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u242	I understand that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the celebration of the 95th anniversary of the founding of the Polish Union in Germany. If I don't hear an objection, that's the decision we're gonna make. I can't hear you objecting. Thank you. We return to the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report of the Commission for Administration and Home Affairs and the Commission for Communication with Poles abroad on the draft law amending the Act on Repatriation and the Act on Foreigners. The additional committee report is in print 1959-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Małgorzata Wypych to present an additional report to the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u243	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report of the Communication Commission with Poles abroad and the Committee on Administration and Internal Affairs on the Parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the act on repatriation and the act on foreigners. At its 50th meeting, held on 26 October 2017, the Sejm, in accordance with Article 5 of the Rules of Procedure, shall be held at its 50th meeting. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, re-directed the draft law contained in print No. 1959 to the Commission for Communication with Poles Abroad and the Commission for Administration and Home Affairs in order to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. Two amendments were tabled. The first amendment concerns transitional provisions related to the rules on the issue of the Polish Charter and is adaptable, the second amends, extends the period of vacathio legis. The latter amendment is an amendment tabled by opposition parties. The Commission, after considering the above amendments on 26 October, shall request their adoption and adoption of the attached draft together with the amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u244	Thank you, Member. The amendments mentioned will be voted first. In the 1st amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 5a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. The vote was 417, 1 Member abstained, no one voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 8 applicants propose that the law enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u245	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to thank the Marshal, because it seems to me that your opinion is that we should apply some rules of legislation, so that the vacathio legis would be 14 days, because in the project submitted, the vacathio legis was 48 hours. I therefore wanted to thank the PiS club for changing its mind and voting in favour of this amendment. My question is, was it a one-time act of common sense... [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Is there a constant trend? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u246	This question is very difficult, Mr President. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 431, 1 against, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 1959, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm unanimously passed a law on the amendment of the Act on repatriation, the Act on the Polish Charter and the Act on Foreigners. We return to the examination of item 21 of the Foreign Affairs Committee's report on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe on the status of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe in the Republic of Poland, signed in Warsaw on 28 June 2017. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1872. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1872, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 429, against - 1, no one abstained. The Sejm passed the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe on the status of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe in the Republic of Poland, signed in Warsaw on 28 June 2017. We refer to point 22 of the agenda: the report by the Commission for European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Governmental Draft Law on the ratification of the Political Dialogue and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Cuba, of the other part, drawn up in Brussels on 12 December 2016. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1866. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft print law 1866 as a whole will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm unanimously adopted the Law on the ratification of the Political Dialogue and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Cuba, of the other part, drawn up in Brussels on 12 December 2016. And that's it, right? [[Yes. Well, thank you.]] Excuse me, this is just the first briefcase. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We are returning to the examination of item 23 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Infrastructure, the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the Act on collective supply of water and the collective discharge of waste water and certain other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1960-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to present an additional report to the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present an additional report by the Joint Committee on Infrastructure, the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the Act on collective supply of water and the collective discharge of waste water and certain other laws. During the second reading, amendments to this project were tabled. The joint committees held an additional meeting yesterday and gave an opinion on the amendments tabled. Firstly, the committees recommend that the High House reject the proposals for rejection of the draft in print 1960, and reject amendments 1, 2, 3 and 4, with amendment 2 being obsolete. The committees also recommend that amendments 5 and 14 be adopted. - Similarly, the adoption of Amendment 14 will render amendment 13 irrelevant. - reject amendments 6, 7 and 8, adopt amendments 9 and 10 and reject amendments 11 and 12. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u248	Thank you. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. Let me remind you that the committees are requesting that this request be rejected. Now there are questions. Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club, asks a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u249	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are filing a motion to reject this bill because it cannot be corrected and it is generally wrong. This is a law that applies to all Poles and Poles, but there is not enough attention and patience to listen to these Poles. In this act, as in the lens, all features of the PiS state and the legislation of the PiS state are concentrated. We do not listen to Poles because we simply do not let them speak. There is no consultation with the social side or with the members of the committees. This is legislation based on fraud and a lie, as we have heard on the social side on many occasions in the committee. We don't really know what project we were discussing, whether it was a government project or a minister of the environment or a minister of infrastructure. That's not what the justification was about. And another immanent feature of all your ideas - total incompetence. You can't even make tools for yourselves. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to exercise its voluntaristic power. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u250	Thank you, Member. I would ask you to respect each other and the country, the Republic of Poland. [[Exactly. That's how it always is.]] There is no such thing as the State of PiS, the State of PO or any other country, is the Republic of Poland, one country, [[Applause]] we're representatives of. And I ask the Member and other Members to respect Poland with respect for the High House. [[Tell that to the president. That's a question for the president.]] Here you go, Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u251	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The scandalous process of proceding this law both at the government stage and in the Sejm is a sufficient reason to reject this law. But yesterday, during the discussion, Minister Gajda drew attention to very important issues. Namely, he made it very clear that the radical rise in water and sewage prices from the government is the result of the full depreciation not only from water and sewers, but also mainly from the reconstructed, built roads, which had to be built simply because they were destroyed. It's true. However, he did not say that the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction was guilty of this case. Minister Smolinski on 11 August Ub. he signed a regulation which forces water supply companies to make 100% charge the sewerage at full costs. The minister must be called off, not blamed on self-government. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The regulation needs to be amended, not amended. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u252	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. 187 voted against 225, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Minority proposal and amendments 1 to 9 were tabled in Article. 1 draft law containing amendments to the Act on collective supply of water and collective discharge of waste water. In the minority proposal to Article. The applicant proposes to delete paragraph 19 of the Act. 1 and 2. Its adoption will result in the unsubstantiatedness of Amendment 1. The question is asked by Mr Józef Lassota, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u253	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! That minority motion... Indeed, it is proposed to delete two paragraphs which say that the draft rules for water supply and waste water discharge are to be assessed by the regulator, i.e. the management board of water management. Of course, the entire bill shows that the PiS state is going to centralize, centralize and actually disenfranchise local governments. I would like to ask: What is the other twisted translation of this record, which says that this draft regulation is supposed to be an opinion... After all, in local governments, due to so many years of functioning of the local government, there are specialists, professionals, while they will do so, opinions of amateurs, i.e. people who are unprepared, institutions that do not have staff for it. I'd like an explanation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How does the government explain this? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u254	Thank you. The Member also uses inappropriate vocabulary in the Sejm of the Republic. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting a minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 194 voted against - 224 and 2 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the first amendment to Article. 19 The applicant's laws propose to delete paragraph 1. 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Marek Owa, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u255	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Municipal Government Act requires municipalities to supply water and waste water collection. Of course, one element is the preparation of regulations. You write in this law that the new regulator will issue an opinion in the form of a provision. It is well known that the power offender, as Minister Gajda admitted, is zero. The authority responsible for adopting the rules of procedure in the form of a resolution of the municipal council may take this into account but does not have to. Therefore, there is absolutely no justification for this paragraph. 2 remained, because if the opinion is sent, if there are well-founded arguments in it, then each council of the municipality will take such a note into account. On the other hand, this provision, as I said, about zero force, except that it is an additional administrative requirement, will not change anything here. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u256	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. Three Members abstained from voting 196 against - 228. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The applicant's laws propose that a water and sewage undertaking should set a tariff for up to 3 years. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unsubstantiatedness of Amendment 3. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 159 voted against - 229, 35 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The applicant's laws propose that a water and sewage undertaking should set a tariff for a period of 2 years. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 194 voted against - 232, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th Amendment to the Article added in the Act. 24c applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of amendments 5 and 14. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 197, against - 231, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th Amendment to the Article added in the Act. 24c paragraph. Point 1 of the proposal proposes an editorial amendment. Amendment 14 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. Their adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 13. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 5 and 14 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 261 voted against - 169, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 6th Amendment to the Article added in the Act. The applicant shall propose to delete paragraph 24c. 4, 5 and 7. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unsubstantiatedness of Amendment 7. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 193 against - 233, with two abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th Amendment to the Article added in the Act. 24c applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 4. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 195, against 236, and no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th Amendment to the Article added in the Act. 24c paragraph. 6 applicants shall propose that this provision be applied to the decisions referred to in paragraph. Two and three. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 200, against 230, and no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. 29 The applicant's laws propose to delete paragraph 29. 11. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 273 votes against 161 and no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the article. 5 of the draft law propose to add points 3 and 4. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 240 voted against - 193, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. 6 the draft law of the applicant proposes that the existing provisions be applied to cases initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of this law. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 162 voted against - 268. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. 9 draft law applicants propose that the tariffs in force on the date of entry into force of the law should remain in force. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 166 against 266. The Sejm rejected the amendment. The 13th amendment is without object. Before the vote on the whole, there are questions. Mr Gabriel Lenartowicz, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u257	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law in the version now adopted can be summarised briefly. Not long ago, the High Sejm adopted a law dramatically increasing the fees for water. Dramatic. At the same time, the Prime Minister stated that water prices would not increase. And how to get out of this contradiction when it's the price of water Whereas the establishment of these charges does not affect, only the most common self-government water supply companies decide? So you had to figure out on your knees how you could control these companies so that you could at the same time take the racket... [[It's not the state. It's the local government.]] ...and the local authorities paid the price, while defying them from power over it. I wonder why you're doing this. But I think that maybe PiS was worried once about how Poles were enchanted with the prospect of warm water in the tap, and now these taps want to be under control, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's just that she's very incompetent. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u258	Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u259	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law was very badly processed: during the inter-ministerial arrangements there were very many comments from individual ministries, in particular the Ministry of Finance, lacked public consultation, no agreement was made with the joint committee of government and local government, no referral to the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers. What laws are to be put under the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers, if not the one that concerns all, businesses, the whole economy, each Pole. This law was also proceded in the Sejm forcefully, without the possibility, so to speak, of allowing the social party to discuss it. A few days ago, Minister Kaminski presented a bill on the transparency of public life. I therefore have a question for the Minister whether this bill will not be the first law he should review. [[About. About.]] Check it out. [[♪ The bell ♪]] whether everything was in order with regard to legality and transparency in the work carried out on this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u260	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a government project. As we know, the government project is undergoing a consultation procedure during inter-ministerial arrangements. [[That's not true.]] Mr Józef Brynkus, the Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u261	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The damage to this bill is evident. I know that Members will manage because they get an untaxed diet, so they can lay down any law that will harm Poles. There are three very bad elements in this bill. They all involve an increase in costs. The first issue concerns the cost of opinion, which will be borne by local self-government units, and in practice will pass it on to citizens by increasing the price of water and waste water. The second point is the obligation to set these tariffs for a period of 3 years. It is clear that someone will predict that these costs may increase, but perhaps the worst thing in this law is that you are undermining the competence of local government units and councillors to their self-government and autonomy in this respect. I would very much ask Minister Gajda, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to address these issues. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u262	Thank you. Would Minister Gajda like to respond to these concerns of the Members? Here you go, Mr. Mariusz Gajda, Deputy Minister of Finance, Excuse me, environmental protection, natural resources and forestry.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u263	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! During the debate on this law, I felt that the opposition Members wanted to increase the price of water in Poland in order to deny what the Prime Minister said. These prices will not increase. This isn't an attack on the government. This is the defence of ordinary residents against unjustified costs imposed on people by water and sewage companies. It's in the NIK report. [[So it's gonna happen, right?]] This will not cost local governments in any way. [[Will the water be cheaper?]] This is only 500 PLN for an administrative decision, i.e. for a water and sewage company it is not a problem. [[So it's gonna be cheaper, right?]] Self-governments, as they have so far submitted applications, will calculate themselves, while the water price regulator, like the Energy Regulatory Office in the field of heat, checks that these tariffs are not excessive. This is a fuse that protects against the fact that water prices in Poland do not increase. This bill must enter into force. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u264	Please. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in the form of print No. 1960, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. One Member abstained from voting 230 against - 195. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on collective water supply and collective waste water discharge and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism on the Government's draft Act on Tourism Events and Related Tourism Services. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft law from print No 1956. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in the form of print No. 1956 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. The vote was 411 against -7, with three abstentions. The Sejm passed a law on tourist events and related tourist services. We return to the consideration of item 25 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the budget law for 2017. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Its rejection will mean that this project is in accordance with Article. Article 106 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 and 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm will be addressed to the Committee on Public Finance and the respective parts of the project will also be examined by the relevant Sejm committees, which will forward to the Committee on Public Finance positions containing proposals, opinions or proposals for amendments. The Sejm Committees shall forward their views to the Public Finance Commission by 6 November 2017 and the Public Finance Committee shall adopt the report by 7 November 2017. The questions are... Ho, ho, ho, there are a lot of questions. Mr Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u265	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister and his ministers! You're not generous, and in this courtroom, you say you're generous. You are blocking PLN 9.5 billion in the 2017 budget. You take ZUS, you take KRUS, you take 50 million to the pensioners for drugs, you take money to feed. And who are you giving it to? Kurskie, you give it to him. What did he deserve? He got 800 million loans. Of course, now he gets 1 billion zlotys. [[Very good.]] And there are still 180 million losses for 2016. You are also generous, giving Minister Macierewicz money to defend the nation, and this is getting bigger. And you're a generous minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He gives you Minister Błaszczak. It's almost political corruption. Under the cloak of national defense, you give the minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u266	Thank you, Member. [[But what do you thank? Let him finish, the truth in the eyes of the circle.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u267	... Błaszczak 400 million. Grace... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party, has the floor. There you go. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] No, no. I'll be right with you, too. Mrs Genowefa Tokarska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u268	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I'm asking a question because I just can't believe that you can go so ruthlessly, heartlessly past health problems. I mean, of course, the rulers. So I ask at the same time: lean on the problem today, perhaps the most important problem of health safety of Poles. Why doesn't the government want to do this? Doctors have been starving for over three weeks. Today we have the opportunity to meet their demands, to start the expected changes in health care. We already know how much was saved: 9.5 billions. 4.5 billion is on ZUS and KRUS. In addition, 1195 million goes to culture, media and the creation of a new research centre for history. What's the story? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I just think it's a real culture to lean over a man who...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u269	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u270	...desperately reporting problems. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u271	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u272	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, and above all, Members of the Law and Justice! You're shaking citizens' money to the left and to the right. You're shastling this money so indecently that our debts will already be paid not only by our children, but also by our grandchildren. You don't care at all about citizens, and even how hard they have to work to pay taxes to the state's money. We have just given - you have basically granted - TVPiS loans with a 2-year payout in order to give a further 1 billion PLN for propaganda today. And you're doing this when you're telling all the doctors who are voting residents that there's no money for their health, and if they don't like it, they can leave. I have another proposal: let President Kurski go and if he doesn't like it, it would be best if he resigned today if he couldn't manage public television in a responsible manner. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u273	Thank you. Member Blazej Parda, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u274	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We know that the government deficit this year will amount to PLN 60 billion. There won't be any surplus. There's gonna be another debt. So there's already one myth we can dispel. But in order for that to happen, you are transferring this 1 billion PLN to party television, politically dependent on the rulers. Question: "Where does this money come from?" Well, 1 billion PLN was saved on the fact that there were more deaths and the Social Security Office paid less pensions than he had planned. I wonder why these people died sooner than you planned. [[In front of the TV.]] Or was it not because they were sick or because health care was not funded? Or was it because they were waiting for a doctor's appointment in 2023? [[Applause]] But what the hell, instead of transferring 1 billion zlotys to health care, you're handing it over to pretend-public media. I have a question: How many thousands of episodes of Turkish soap operas will pass on TVP before I get to endocrinologist? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u275	Thank you. Mr Gabriela Masłowska, Club of Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u276	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Is it true that we do not take anything away from anyone by amending the 2017 budget bill? Savings of PLN 9,5 billion are the result, first of all, of a good situation in the labour market and greater revenue from contributions to the Social Security Office, and thus reducing the necessary subsidies from the state budget to the Social Security Office, second, of reducing contributions to international organisations, thirdly, and first of all, of strengthening the gold and reducing the cost of handling the Treasury debt, as well as natural savings in individual resorts. Therefore, we maintain the budget deficit at the planned level of PLN 59 billion, we only transfer unused funds to such important targets. Therefore, if someone is voting against this budget law today, it means that they are voting against compensation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for miners, improving the state of dental and health offices in schools, greater spending on family, etc. Well, then we're not really talking here. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u277	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, near the European Union of Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u278	Thank you, Marshal. My question to the Prime Minister is very simple. Why was there no money found in the budget transfers for 2017 to increase salaries and meet the demands of first and basic protesters, starving resident doctors? Why instead of satisfying this professional group, important for the quality of health services provided to Poles, the amount of nearly PLN 1 billion is transferred to support public television, which is biased television, is a television giving disgraceful materials, is a television that compromises freedom of expression in Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u279	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill contained in print No. 1946 would like to raise your hand and press the button. [[Voice from the room: Well, finally.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 192 voted against - 230, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the application and thus, in accordance with Article. 106 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed this draft law to the Committee on Public Finance and the relevant committees for consideration in accordance with the pre-arranged deadlines. We return to the consideration of item 26. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2017. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Public Finance Committee. The Members shall raise questions. Member of Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u280	We said that the amendment to the budget law is wrong, but the amendment to the around budget law for 2017 is also wrong and we are against it. Mr. President, I don't know if you know that there are 3 billion in this budget to compensate the miners. Cheers to you, sir. Cheers to you, sir. President Kurski, president of public television, comes to you very often in the most difficult situations. 800 million loans are for TV, the president's here, thank you. Now 1 billion PLN - there is a loan. He'll come, thank you, and we'll be sick. There are no doctors. And who do they pay high bonuses to? Does Prime Minister Kaczyński know about this? And one more thing. Does President Kaczyński know that Minister Macierewicz hands over 400 million, please, to his neighbour, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister Błaszczak? For our health, there are no doctors. It's outrageous.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u281	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u282	The state should explain this to Poles. [[Applause]] [[Where's the OFE money?]] [[In SKOKs.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u283	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u284	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It's worth counting what you're going to give President Kursk and the like today, saying that you don't have any money for health care. If PLN 980 million were divided into resident doctors, each of them could receive a monthly gross increase of PLN 4855.90. [[Applause]] Would it be, Mr. Chairman? Would it be? It would be, wouldn't it? But if you don't want to give it to the residents, you can give it to them. guardians of adults with disabilities. The verdict of the tribunal is still unfulfilled today, and so is your election promise. It is also worth comparing these amounts to what we spend on health care. Example - oncological budget. Mr. President, do you know how much the oncology budget is in our country? If you do not know, I will tell you: PLN 6200 million. [[He's turning to the Sejm.]] That money you're giving President Kursk, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's 1/6 of the cancer budget in our country. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: The whole of Poland.]] [[So what?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u285	Thank you, Member. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u286	I have a few questions about crocodile tears that spread opposition over health care. Minister, is it true that during the time of the PO-PSL government, on average, 74 billion PLN was spent on health care... [[Voice from the room: Ooh!...]] [[You've been in charge for two years. Woman, wake up.]] ...and in 2017 this is PLN 84 billion plus PLN 3 billion... [[The Poles paid.]] ...from the budget surplus? [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work, it's from the contribution.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u287	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u288	Is it true that in 2015 the amount of PLN 812 million was allocated to residents, while in 2017 it is PLN 1032 million... [[Mr. Marshal, this is not about health.]] ...with growth plans for next year? [[Applause]] Is it true that we keep the budget deficit within the necessary limits... [[It's about Kurski and coal sales.]] ... Even though we don't derive from privatisation, as the opposition did, that on average a year... [[It's not about the opposition.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u289	Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u290	...over 6 billion zlotys you were earning [[♪ The bell ♪]] With money... [[But you've been in charge for two years. You've been in charge for two years. Wake up, woman.]] ...unearned, because of the sale of national assets produced by generations. You've been sucking up dividends. You've been running creative accounting. Still...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u291	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u292	...you couldn't afford...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u293	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u294	...for social reforms on such a scale... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u295	Thank you, Member. [[What is it, marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u296	...as the current government does. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u297	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill contained in print 1944 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 195 voted against - 231, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the proposal and sent the bill to the Public Finance Commission. At the moment, before considering point 27, I will put to the vote a formal proposal by Mr Meysztowicz, which was first submitted and which concerns this point. This is a request for a break. [[It's a good thing it wasn't from the previous sitting.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 160 votes against - 254, 9 abstentions. The motion was rejected. We return to the examination of item 27 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on specific arrangements for implementing the budget law for 2018. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Public Finance Committee for consideration. There are questions. Questions are raised by Mr Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Platform Club. [[Iza, come on.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u298	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Last night, late last night, under the cover of the night, the PiS government presented without enthusiasm the around budget bill for 2018. No wonder you are ashamed of this bill because it is very bad. You wrote it as if there was a recession in the world and there was an economic slowdown in Poland. You give teachers a raise, beware, how much? - 3%. In three years, 3%. The Civic Platform gave teachers 50% within 8 years raises. [[Applause]] 50% raises. [[Voice from the room: What?]] In a different macroeconomic environment. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Where are the raises? Where's the money?]] This law was not defended yesterday, not even the Members of the PiS were pleased that they had to vote for it today. [[And how many local governments have added to your distribution?]] It's all in the transcripts. Since four parliamentary clubs and your coalitionist, Kukiz,15, applied for rejection at first reading, that means something's going on. Think about it, because this is a bill that gives the government the right to spend the taxpayer's money, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But not the way you want to do it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u299	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u300	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I don't want to talk about it... [[Pasquila.]] ...I will not call... the pusquel that we have just heard from the Member, but I will ask the government: How does the government feel, in particular the Minister of Agriculture and the Environment, when he takes again, robs farmers of their compensation for hunting damages, leading many farmers to bankruptcy, causing unrest in the countryside and leading to rural divisions? It's a game of hunters. This is really unworthy, especially since this is the second time in a row. For the past 10 months, Mrs Anna Paluch has been blocking the Government's proposal for the Law of Hunting, refusing to allow committee proceedings. I've prepared 22 amendments for it that fix the relationship between farmers and hunters. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's time to start proceding. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u301	Thank you. Mr Genowef Tokarska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u302	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask why there are so many discrepancies between the draft around budget law for 2018 and what the government is permanently proclaiming, almost about the bright future of this budget and the future. The budget bill for the next year has shown the mess, literally the mess of investment and development. It deepened unimaginably the sovereign debt. The debt is rising by 72 billion. And this law, which we are debating today, unfortunately resembles a period of deep financial crisis. Basic returns that exist in this project are freezing, freezing in principle everything and basing on the size of the crisis, from 5 years ago, 2012 to 2013, let alone [[♪ The bell ♪]] Already about putting aside the Compensation Fund for another year and a half. This is a very bad bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u303	Thank you, Madame, Member. Mr Maria Zuba, Club of Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u304	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister! Is it true that for eight years we have heard one thing: that there was a green island in Poland? [[We're freezing.]] Today you're talking about a crisis. [[This is a crisis now?]] You're saying that in this budget, we've secured a 3% raise for teachers. In the years to come, which means in the year... [[In 2025.]] ... 2018, 2019 and 2020... [[You're such a liar.]] ... There will be an increase of 15% And that's what we talked about on the committee. [[It's gonna be okay. Talk about what's going on, talk about yourselves.]] Is that why you applied to reject the bill? Is it because we're organizing public finances and debts that you've drawn, the Civic Platform and the PSL? [[But you've been in charge for two years. Tell me what you did.]] It's in this around budget bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's security measures... [[Liar, you're not telling the truth.]] ...and there are provisions to extend the ZUS. It's about the loan you've borrowed, amounting to PLN 7.2 billion. [[Your memory goes so far.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u305	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u306	And you know it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u307	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Voice from the room: Formal application.]] Mr President, please don't disturb me. [[Mr. Marshal, we don't abuse it.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I can accept the formal proposals from the club presidents, not from Members who have so far acted differently. [[Voice from the hall: Somehow all other clubs could submit applications.]] [[We don't abuse it.]] On behalf of the head of the club... [[It's really the first time on this day...]] As president of the club, you can make a formal application. [[Voice from the Chamber: On behalf of the President.]] The president of the club may submit a formal application. Other requests, ladies and gentlemen, I will consider the voting block. [[The rules are the same for everyone.]] I have information that 16 government representatives are asked to answer this question. All of you? 16? [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] So who wants to take the floor? [[Voice from the O.R.: You must save yourselves from resignation.]] There you go, Minister Anna Zalewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u308	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, Polish education requires that the word be taken care of and that the word weighs. So apart from, ladies and gentlemen, half-truths, manipulations and lies, there have been lies. From April 1st we start 3 years of 15% increase for teachers and for the first time in many years we have not told local governments: find money in subsidies, [[Applause]] But already this year we spend over PLN 1 billion on these increases. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u309	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill in print 1945 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Mr. Marshal, on behalf of the president of the club, I would like to present a proposal.]] [[He's got the club's power of attorney. I've seen it.]] 398 Members voted. There were 166 votes against and 229 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the motion and thus sent the bill to the finance committee. We proceed to the examination of item 30 of the agenda: Second reading of the Commission's draft resolution on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period January-June 2017 (the leadership of Malta in the Council of the European Union) (prints No 1804 and 1804-A) - voting. I ask Mr Konrad Głębocki to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u310	Dear Marshal, Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! The European Union Committee at its meeting yesterday considered the amendment of the Civic Platform Club aimed at rejecting information about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union. The Committee on European Union Affairs recommends rejecting the Civic Platform amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u311	Thank you very much. We will vote on the amendment first. In this amendment, applicants request that the draft resolution be reworded: The Polish Parliament rejects the information of the Council of Ministers about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period January-June 2017. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Krzysztof Truskolaska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u312	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The six-month Maltese Presidency in the European Union shows how Prime Minister Szydło's government has led to the collapse of Poland's importance on the international stage and how he has compromised our diplomacy. First of all, Prime Minister Szydło used foreign policy to execute the private revenge of President Kaczyński at Donald Tusk, which resulted in the defeat of Poland in the elections to the President of the European Council. Let me remind you, 27 to 1. Visegrad Group and the United Kingdom were against Polish candidacy, i.e. all countries which according to government propaganda have great relations with good change. [[190-zero.]] Come on. Since the beginning of the PiS governments, we have been still under discussion at the level of all the institutions of the European Union in respect of compliance with the rule of law, which does not help us to build our relations with the top of the European Union. Thirdly, another failure of the government concerns the case of posted workers, which shows the final defeat and collapse of Poland's prestige in the international arena during the times of the PiS government. All the leading Community countries were against [[♪ The bell ♪]] the demands of our country, and even half of the Visegrad Group countries broke out of solidarity with us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u313	Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u314	Thank you, Marshal. You guys actually started with a bust, 27 to 1. Shame. Shame, you have compromised Poland, Poland alone. But it was even better after that. The European Parliament has already supported the procedure in Article. 7 about breaking the rule of law. [[Don't tell me.]] What are you excited about, Mr. President? But then it was even more interesting. He's letting go of Bialowieza. [[Voice from the room: Don't wave a finger.]] Judgment, judgment of the European Court... [[Sit down.]] ...doesn't exist for you because there are no courts for you. There's one fair judge here. [[Don't wave a finger.]] But then it was even more interesting. The Roman Declaration. Prime Minister, you have ruined the celebration of Europe by blackmailing it with no sense the day before the declaration was signed. It's a Turkish issue. Everyone stops negotiations with Turkey after the coup, and Mr Błaszczak says: Turkey to the European Union. [[Angela Merkel...]] 80 million Muslims. Great! Syrian women don't, but here they are. [[Applause]] [[Macron's holding up, too.]] And then the biggest disaster: transporters, posted workers. [[You're lying!]] The question is, where were the flowers, Mr Kaczyński, [[♪ The bell ♪]] As Mrs. Szydło did last week after her defeat... [[Liar!]] ...came back from Brussels. Why weren't you in Okęc? Where are the flowers? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Sit down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u315	Thank you, sir. Mr Dominik Tarczynski, the Law and Justice, came to the questions. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u316	I don't have to scream like Mr Nitras, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] But I'm gonna ask, I'd like to ask if you've forgotten 190:0, not 27:1. Poland has been elected as an alternate member of the UN Security Council. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] You're lying about the fact that there were no other candidates because there was Bulgaria. Our diplomacy led you to lose 190:0. This is a symbol of your diplomacy. I will no longer mention how Sikorski wanted to sell and buy German real estate with our Polish money. [[Come down, don't murder yourself.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't embarrass yourself.]] So just because you're screaming doesn't change the fact that it was 190:0 and that zero is on your side. [[Applause]] [[But you know what? I was better anyway.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u317	We'll proceed with the vote. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there have been some questions, please... [[I asked where the flowers were, I'm sorry.]] [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I won't answer that question. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Because it was a question for the president.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. 151 voted against - 258, 8 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. All the questions are raised. Mr Adam Szłapka, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u318	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First, I would like to reply to Mr Tarczyński. Member of the Security Council, a permanent member of the Security Council. We were also behind Bierut, so congratulations on your success. Everybody's got their own bierut. [[It's just that you guys voted for it.]] The Maltese Presidency in the European Union has had a very important period. First of all, the Brexit negotiations. Secondly, a discussion on the future of the European Union. Thirdly, the refugee crisis. Fourthly, the election of the President of the European Council. How did Poland find itself in all this? No discussion on the future of the European Union, no response whatsoever, compromising Poland's start - because of the preservation of your government - of the rule of law procedure by the European Commission and... [[And time's up.]] ...a grotesque action by your government with the election of the President of the European Council, where you lost 27:1. [[190:0.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u319	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u320	This is a disgrace to the Polish government and a sad farewell to Minister Waszczykowski's position.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u321	Thank you, sir. Mr Konrad Głębocki, Club Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u322	I would like to ask you a question related to President Donald Tusk. You're offended, respectable total opposition... [[Voice from the hall: You're insulting yourself.]] ...that the Polish government did not support Donald Tusk... [[Did he?]] ...but you must now be offended by Jean-Claude Juncker, who said, probably after a very thorough assessment and analysis of Donald Tusk's activities in this position, that this position is unnecessary. [[Stop it, don't murder yourself. I thought you were smarter than that.]] [[For the $4,000. Bottles of the best champagne.]] As far as the rule of law is concerned, you have the audacity to talk about the rule of law, while in Warsaw, under your rule of law, under the rule of the Civic Platform, there was no rule of law and total lawlessness. And you have the audacity to talk about the rule of law in Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Don't embarrass yourself, man.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u323	Please. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of... [[And the question was.]] I'm sorry. Mr Rafał Trzaskowski, right? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u324	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Sometimes you just have to calm the mood a little bit. [[The one who wrote the resolutions. Traitor.]] I would like to ask you about the consequences, but first of all I would like to thank you, Mr President, because there have been announcements that you want to draw consequences in the reconstruction of the government as regards this tragic European policy of law and justice. [[Applause]] I'm very happy because something needs to be done, Mr. President, with these saboteurs, with those people who are always misleading you. I do not believe that the President wants to change the political vector from the European Union to Belarus, that he wants to freeze the Eastern policy that President Lech Kaczyński built, that he wants to lose EU money. I just don't believe it. Who let you out on this Jack Saryusz-Wolski? We have to punish these people, these saboteurs. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] It has to be done in the reconstruction of the government. I'd like to thank you for that. If you had taken responsibility for this government's policy, they would have finally stopped talking that noodle on your ears. Yeah, well, courage, Mr. President. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u325	There were a number of questions, but a little off the subject. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft resolution on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period January-June 2017 (the leadership of Malta in the Council of the European Union) in print No 1804, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. In favour of 258, against 157, 11 Members abstained. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union between January and June 2017 (the leadership of Malta in the Council of the European Union). We proceed with the examination of item 31 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the Government draft law amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws (prints No 1780 and 1896) - third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1896. The Commission presents minority proposals. We will vote on them in the first place. Minority requests have been submitted to Article. 1 draft amending law containing amendments to the Foreigners Act. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. 302 Laws propose to maintain the wording of paragraph 1. 4. We'll proceed with the vote. Any questions? The question is asked by Wojciech Wilk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u326	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The first request of a minority aims to preserve the existing legal status, according to which to a foreigner who does work illegally but in an innocent way, for example. it has been misled, its professional dependence has been used or its inadequate understanding of the action taken does not seem to be a decision to oblige it to return. I have a question for Minister Rogali, head of the Foreign Office. Don't you think the Minister, given the article? 120. 3 employment promotion law and labour market institutions that this would be a better solution? The adoption of such a provision, which was introduced in the proposed wording, simply deprives some of the foreigners used by their employers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u327	Please. Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u328	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for your vote. To please your marshal, I'll start by asking a question about this minority request. Will the vote on this proposal, the results of this vote, show us which group is an opposition group? No, it's not. The opposition group is what Marshal Marek Kuchciński is afraid to allow for formal applications. [[Applause]] As the only group in this session of the Sejm, we were not allowed to submit a formal application, and in this formal proposal we wanted to ask for a break during which I could explain to Mrs Izabela Leszczyn that today...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u329	Mr President, you are speaking out of line at the moment. I draw your attention. Give me the...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u330	...the vote has shown that the greatest coalitioner...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u331	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u332	...not even a coalitioner, but the Law and Justice Clubs turned out to be the Platform and Modern Clubs, [[Applause]] Because...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u333	...I have to take your vote. If you don't...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u334	...voted in favour of restoring the reporting obligation. The real opposition was in this case Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u335	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u336	I'm asking you to reflect... [[Applause]] [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Teachers shouldn't lie.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u337	Mr President, this was not a voice on the subject, at least in the second part. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 153 voted against 267, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the second minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete the amendments to Article. 318. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. 147 voted against 267, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the third minority proposal to Article. 320 applicants propose to maintain the existing wording of paragraph. 2. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. The vote was 150, against 269, and no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 4th minority proposal to Article. Point (b) is replaced by the following: 1 applicants propose to maintain the wording of point 2. The question is raised by Wojciech Wilk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u338	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The request of a minority proposed by us is intended to preserve the current legal and temporary status of preventing the execution of the decision on the obligation to return a foreigner whose presence in Poland is required by the interest of the Polish justice system, the interests of the Republic of Poland or the exceptional situation of the foreigner. In my opinion, but not only, because such comments at the meeting of the committee were also submitted by the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights or the Association of Legal Interventions, the adoption of regulations proposed by the government may lead to the situation that, despite the decision to ban leaving the territory of the Republic of Poland, the foreigner could actually be expelled from Poland, which would be to the detriment of e.g. for ongoing criminal proceedings. I would very much ask the Minister to comment on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u339	Minister Renata Pszczech is here, all right. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 153 voted against - 269, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 5th minority proposal to Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Point 1 (2) of the proposal for an amendment of the appointment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. 149 votes against - 269. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 6th minority proposal to Article. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants shall propose an amendment to points 1 and 2. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. 149 votes against - 268, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 7th minority proposal to the added article. 398a propose to delete points 1 and 2. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 7th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. 151 voted against - 267, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 8th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete paragraph 403. 2a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 152 votes against - 268, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 9th minority proposal to Article. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The applicant shall submit a different wording to point 4 of point 5. a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. 153 votes against - 268. The Sejm's motion is denied. Questions were submitted before voting on the whole draft law. Mr Robert Winnicki, a non-attached Member, raises a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u340	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the occasion of the process of this law on foreigners, which rightly aims to increase the ability of the State to control them, especially those who break the law in Poland, is an important question about another solution, I do not know whether at the statutory level, probably also, first of all about the solution at the level of strategic government policy. Because there are already 1 million in Poland, 1.5 million maybe 2 million of the Ukrainian population. It is not that these people will assimilate in a way that does not cause any problems, difficulties. We are dealing with the phenomenon of mass influx with the ongoing emigration of Poles at the same time. The legitimate question is: What is the government's policy towards this powerful challenge, which is now left behind by the self-pas, which Poland is facing in the coming years and decades? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What a migration policy does not run against 10,000. immigrants from outside Europe, only against this million-dollar immigration? What solutions does the Polish government have? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u341	Thank you, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u342	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The answer is simple. If you find money for raises for residents, they won't leave, so they won't have to be replaced by doctors from Ukraine. It's a simple move. As far as this law is concerned, it can actually help in a very difficult time when there are no workers in the Polish labour market. We only have one comment. Why has one thing not been taken into account, namely, in setting limits in particular professions, you did not take into account our suggestion that this decision should be preceded by consultations with both local authorities and employers' organisations? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u343	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1896, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. The vote was 416, no one voted against, one Member abstained. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Senate Resolution on the Law amending the Law on Press Law. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. The Senate has tabled an amendment to the Rule. 1 Amending Law containing amendments to the Press Law Act. In the amendment to the article. 49b. One and two. The Senate proposes a legislative change. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting the amendment will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. The absolute majority is 205. The vote was 6 against 403. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We would like to refer to item 29 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 4. The Senate proposes changes of an editorial nature. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 1 to 4 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 401 Members voted. The absolute majority is 201. Four Members voted in favour, 397 Members voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We proceed with the examination of item 35 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 1961). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 148a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Would any of you like to take the floor on this? [[Voice from the room: No.]] No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print no. 1961, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 387 Members voted. The vote was 374 against - 3 with 10 abstentions. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm ordering a five-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 min. 19 hrs. 13 min 26]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 32 of the agenda: First reading of the Commission's draft law amending the Act on the supply of war and military invalids and their families and some other laws (Print No 1888). I ask Mrs Magdalena Kochan to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u344	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! The bill, which I am presenting to the High House, is the result of a petition which was submitted by the Union of Invalids of the Republic of Poland at the hands of the Committee on Petitions. We found this petition to be legitimate and hence the bill. I want to remind you that art. 19 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland emphasizes the great duty of future and present generations towards those who fought for our independence, often endangering not only their health but also their lives. We have been surrounded by the special concern of war invalids since 1991, when the first law on combatants and repressed persons was established. In it we found that a group of war invalids who, as a result of their war activities, their stay in the army, in the guerrilla, suffered a personal injury, are surrounded by special care, we assign them a special pension which is not dependent on other benefits received by such a person. So, for example. The pension of a war invalid may have been an addition to the pension that the war invalid has earned, and both benefits have been paid and the person concerned has decided which pension is paid in 50%. If the disability pension was higher than the pension, then the same person chose it, she made the choice. Thus, the disability pension and the pension are due to such a person. That hasn't changed. What's changed today? The proportion of pensions and pensions of a war disability in relation to the lowest national and the average national wage. Since 2007, the disability pension has not changed, this year it is the same and amounts to PLN 1775.89, but in 2007 it was 189%, almost 190% minimum wage. We know that today's lowest wage is $2,000. zł, therefore, the pension of the invalid war is lower. In both the 1991 legislator's assumptions and, I think, in line with our sense of duty to war invalids, this amount should change, so we propose that it be at the right level today, intended by all of us. We propose that this year it amounts to PLN 3536.87 and the difference between PLN 1700 and the amount I was talking about at the moment is free of income tax. I would like to say that the group of people that we include in this witnessing, this new proposal of height, is a closed group. They're nothing but war invalids. This increase does not apply to their families, nor does it apply to combatants or oppressed persons. This is the benefit addressed to the group... It's ugly to talk about numbers like that, but this is a group of about 3.5,000. people, a group of elderly people, a group of people who are slowly decreasing. With regard to the budgetary implications of what would have been if we had kept today's pension of the invalid war, the difference in the budget of the combatant's office would have been PLN 11 million with a slight surplus. The Committee on Petitions believes that this is a cost worth paying for a group of people particularly deserved for the Republic of Poland, people we should take care of with particular piety. On behalf of the Committee on Petitions, I request the adoption of a draft law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u345	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u346	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present the position of the club on the draft law submitted by the Committee on Petitions amending the Act on the supply of war and military invalids and their families and certain other laws, print No 1888. The aim of the proposed law is to provide specific financial support from the State for a group of 3 000. persons who are disabled by war, i.e. persons referred to in Article. 19 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The proposed law provides for the creation of a new monetary benefit, i.e. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings The allowance is to be granted in the amount of PLN 850 for the disabled groups I and II and PLN 637.50 for the disabled groups III. The allowance is to be exempt from personal income tax, which results directly from the proposed amendment of this law. According to the proposed regulation, the allowance will not benefit family members from the remaining combatants who are war invalids. The amount of the survivor's pension, together with the allowance created for the survivor's pension, would amount to 93% in 2018 the base amount in force in 2017, amounting to PLN 3536. Thus, it can be estimated that from 1 March 2018 the invalids of war I and II groups would receive a total benefit of PLN 3280. The essential social effect of the proposed law will be a clear signal to society as a whole that people who have lost their health and their ability to work, and often to exist on their own, can count on special support from the state in the fight for freedom and their homeland. Assuming that the benefit plus the allowance will be paid on an average of 3 000. people, the cost of these benefits in 2018 will be 11,7 million, so the difference is 11,3 million. This is the estimated cost of the proposed solutions. However, this law requires further work in Parliamentary committees as it should be clarified. For my part, I would also like to add that in 2007, in fact, the invalids of war had this witness at a fairly decent level, but it was still decreasing, for 8 years of the rule of the Civic Platform, which at that time actually did little to help and to the invalids of war, and to the combatants. This really needs to be improved. It is a group that is old and requires special support from the state, as the Constitution of the Republic of Poland says. In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is in favour of adopting this project and referring it to further work in Parliamentary committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u347	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Jan Piechota, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u348	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The club... [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal! Could you ask, because there at the press gallery, however...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u349	May I ask for silence at the press gallery and for your speech to be made? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u350	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, which I have the honour to represent, fully supports the project submitted. We believe that there are at least three fundamental reasons for this project to become a law. First of all, it concerns the people most deserved for our freedom, which is directly covered by the article. 19 constitutions as follows: The Republic of Poland specially cares for veterans fighting for independence, especially the disabled of war. Secondly, we are aware that the spending of these people on basic needs is also increasing with age. Finally, in the budgetary debate, the words about the state's excellent budgetary position sounded very strongly, so nothing can prevent this project from becoming a law. This will be the case if the Law and Justice do not deceive, as it has recently done in the law from the same area, in the law concerning miners' soldiers. On 30 March 2016, a group of Members of the Civic Platform submitted a draft law, print No 428. According to this draft law, soldiers of military replacement service in 1949 and 1959 were also to be included for political reasons employed in coal mines, quarryings or uranium ore plants, as well as soldiers from the collection of incarnate soldiers from political reasons into the overcontinent brigades of the Polish Service. At the time, during the debate at first reading, Mr Waldemar Andzel said: "The special treatment of people who had been stolen from the best years of their lives was requested by the Law and Justice in the Seym by the sixth term of office of the Civic Platform and the PSL. The club then submitted a draft law on the powers of combatants, participants in the civil war, opposition activists against the communist dictatorship and victims of repression of totalitarian systems. The project was designed, among others. including miners' soldiers and construction battalions so that they are aligned in rights with other victims of political repression. Despite the monitations of the above-mentioned miners' soldiers, the Civic Platform has done nothing to address this issue and to strengthen the sense of social justice during the long eight years of government, 96 months. Only today, after the loss of power, the Platform is submitting a project. Such conduct is a slap for those experienced by human life. It can even be said that this is political hypocrisy. And what, Mr Andzel? We waited a year and two months for your government position, 14 long months. The position appeared on 20 June 2017. And what do we read in the government's position, your government? We read: It must be borne in mind that any increase in state budget expenditure implies the need to seek additional appropriations within the limit of expenditure, i.e. to reduce the expenditure of other entities covered by the expenditure rule. Consequently, any legal solution adopted to further burden the public finance sector requires a specific analysis of the availability of resources and the provision of sources of funding. In the Government's conclusions we read: With this in mind, the Council of Ministers cannot support the parliamentary bill amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war repression and post-war periods and some other laws. One day I would like to accept as true any further statement by Mr Andzel on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. I'd like the invalids to get the supplement mentioned in the draft petition committee. It will be if the Law and Justice do not cheat this time. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The platform's been cheating so far.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u351	Thank you very much. Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u352	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Modern Club fully supports the provisions of the bill amending the Act on the supply of war and military invalids and their families and some other laws. The solutions proposed are most appropriate. You can only regret that they are introduced so late and that they only concern invalids, not all veterans. It is the responsibility of the State to support these environments. The concern for people who have lost their ability in the service of their homeland, and often the possibility of self-existence, also reflects the nation and its citizens. The provisions of the Act are therefore nothing more than at least a partial payment of the debt of gratitude that we have towards those who have suffered, fighting for Poland. And it should be embarrassing - and here we are also fighting in our own breasts - that the problem was noticed only after the petition addressed to the Sejm by the interested parties, i.e. the Association of Invalids of Wars of the Republic of Poland. It was only then that the project was prepared, despite the fact that there are still signals that former soldiers, usually old, ill people, are struggling with a bad material situation today. However, in the last decade, comparing the amounts of pensions paid over the last 10 years, there has been a clear downward trend compared to the amount of the basic amount or the amount of the lowest pension. And so the amount of the disability pension was reduced from 190% minimum wage in 2007 to 130% in 2017. In addition, the project is not only an expression of respect, but a fulfilment of a constitutional obligation, because art. 19 of the Constitution recommends a special care environment for veterans, especially those who have become disabled in the struggle for independence due to injuries. One of their rights is the possibility of obtaining a war disability pension, and the benefits introduced make it more realistic. The allowance is to be PLN 850 for the disabled of Group I and Group II and PLN 637.50 for the disabled of Group III and will be exempt from income tax. It's estimated there's about 3,000 today. people to whom this will improve their living conditions You can guess that this money in the main part will be used for the basics necessary for the functioning of things: medicine, rehabilitation, medical treatments, and probably also for help in housework that enables normal everyday life. Unfortunately, the project clearly states that this allowance will only benefit the disabled, which is explained by the budgetary possibilities. It will not be received by members of the families of invalid combatants. Sadly, however, income increases cannot be expected by veterans who do not have an established disability group. Are you sure it is true to explain that budget opportunities do not allow this to happen? Today we devote a lot to various actions and events promoting the cult of soldiers, especially those who are cursed, to promoting places of glory of Polish weapons and similar activities. Today, much is said about heroism, the need to sacrifice for the country, the soldier's blood and labor. Meanwhile, heroes live in poverty. Pure hypocrisy. The explanation "we have budget deficits" not only doesn't convince us, but also compromises this pathos, especially since, as we read in the explanatory memorandum of the bill, the proposed financial solution will not create a great burden on the budget. The expected cost of this benefit will be about PLN 113 million in 2018. In the following years, for natural reasons, this amount will decrease. And that's what I'm putting under consideration. To sum up, the solution proposed in the draft law of the club Moderna considers it as positive as possible. It is a good, although insufficient action towards improving the living conditions of people who in a very difficult time for our homeland did not hesitate to fight for her freedom and independence, regardless of the health and life consequences. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u353	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party, has the floor. No, I am sorry, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak put his position in writing, as did Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan. Let's get to the questions. If anybody else wants to... Oh, no, Mr Andzel is still being corrected. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u354	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I do not know if Mr Piechota, because I wanted to speak to him, listened to my speech. This is true - the Civic Platform has done little for 8 years for the environment of combatants, military invalids. Also in the justification of the project it is written how the value of military disability benefits fell. The Government of Law and Justice and the parliamentary club will certainly help this environment in its term of office in which Law and Justice rule. They will help the disabled in war, but also the miners, in whom I have actually been defending for so many years, and the Civic Platform did not want to do anything. I'm sure there'll be a government project in this term, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which will solve these issues and help the war invalids, the combatants, and the miners. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u355	Thank you very much. Mr Piechota is yet to be corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u356	Mr Andzel certainly did not understand me. Maybe it's just that your memory is failing, but the archives keep these speeches, and that's why it's worth being decent, because somebody might look into those archives someday. I would like to remind you: on 29 April 2016, at the Sejm meeting, at your first reading in this Chamber, you said: We all agree that state aid should be increased for this group, for miners' soldiers, to make everyday existence very difficult for these people, because they are already elderly. The project regulates the case of miners' soldiers, who deserve respect for their compatriots and care and care from state institutions. And you used the same argument that the Platform hasn't done anything for eight years, 96 months. That's when you said, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm sure everyone deserves this help. Your government said that project should go to the trash. How long has it been since April? R.? Count on your fingers. What have you done for the miners' soldiers this time? Answer yourself that.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u357	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u358	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Invalids of war are entitled to special care from the state and deserve financial support. The proposed law provides for a new cash benefit intended exclusively for war disabilities. It is good that the invalids of war will receive this witness on 1 March: I and II group - 850 PLN, while III group - 637.50 zł. These are not huge amounts. The government is constantly bragging that the state's financial condition is excellent and that we can afford anything. You spend money right and left. At this point, I am convinced that the government will keep its word and that this bill, which will be sent to the committee, will not be lost, because it would be very unelegant from the government if it did, because we have only 3.5,000 of these people. Why are we having second thoughts? We have doubts because it has happened so many times that good laws were simply rejected in committee. I'd like to ask, what about the combatants? Because there are not many Poles and they would also need to be prepared an additional benefit, which is very low at the moment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If the Minister has such knowledge, tell me: How many combatants do we have in Poland and is the government considering additional support for these Poles? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u359	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Marcin Zielenecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u360	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to say that we do not have the official position of the Council of Ministers yet, but I will try to present to you the assumptions of the draft position that has been prepared in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. With regard to the general conclusion, we agree with the projector that it is undoubtedly the responsibility of the Polish country to care for special care, special care of the disabled especially affected in the course of armed wars for the independence of their homeland. It shows the guarantee of a number of rights and benefits to the disabled as compensation for their contribution to the defence of the country, marked by a personal injury. These powers are intended to support war disabilities in their daily lives. They are an expression of the special need that the state is obliged to surround the veterans with the fight for independence. The draft law drawn up by the Committee on Petitions of the Polish Sejm assumes that the invalids of war would receive additional rights in the form of a cash allowance to the pension of a war invalid whose amount would depend on the degree of disability. In the light of Art. The 19th Constitution, which commands in a group of veterans to fight for independence with particular concern for the disabled of war, the proposed solution cannot raise doubts as to whether it is compatible with the Constitution, therefore the bill as an increase in the scope of benefits for war invalids in the opinion, I stress, adopted in the draft position of the Council of Ministers, we find worthy of a positive assessment. However, in the draft position we also have a number of comments on the detailed solutions contained in this draft law. I do not wish to present these comments in detail to you, but I declare that we will actively join in further parliamentary work and try to improve this project. Referring to Mr Piechota's speech, because he referred to the government's position in relation to the Mining Soldiers Act, I would like to say that I have the impression that the Member has not been very keenly familiar with the content of this position. I very well remember that in this position there is a clear declaration that the government will in due course propose a bill which will comprehensively regulate the legal situation not only of miners' soldiers but also of other groups worthy of the State, for example because of its self-sacrifice, will prepare such comprehensive solutions. I would like to say that the relevant bill is in fact ready, and is still in the process of internal arrangements. When, you can say, we will refine the last details, we will refer to the further work of Parliament's bill covering not only miners' soldiers, but also civilian blind victims of war, those covered by the Veterans' Act and those repressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u361	Thank you, Minister. Mr Piechota, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u362	Thank you, Marshal. I have examined this position very carefully, Minister, and I can assure you that, because I have repeatedly asked the chair of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, when this project will finally be discussed at the committee meeting - when finally. Madam Mazurek said: very soon, very soon, very soon. The next few months went by, and the project didn't go there. Finally, President Mazurek told me that there was a government position. So? You want to throw it all away in public? I say, let's see what the position is. The position was clear: the government does not support it. The government could join in, offer better solutions, but at that point it turned out that the funds... and so on. So, Minister, the government's position was clear, the government stated in it that there was no such possibility and that there would be no support for such a project. And the solution is simple - including miners' soldiers in the same circle of authorized [[♪ The bell ♪]] under the law on combatants and repressed persons. There is no legislative finesse, there is a simple equalization of rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u363	Thank you very much. Mrs Magdalena Kochan, representative of the applicants, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u364	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! That's a good announcement. Thank you very much to the clubs for adopting the Commission's proposal for Petitions, because this is, I will remind you, a legislative initiative taken over political divisions. The Committee on Petitions has representatives of both Law and Justice, PiS, Modern and other groups - Kukiza and PSL. In view of this, it is really important that we be united in this respect for those who have fought for our independence with the risk of our lives. I welcome the positive opinion of the government. I have only one question, which always arises at such moments: whether the process over this law will go at the right pace. Why? Because in the bill we indicated the date of its entry into force on 1 March 2018. It would be important for us to signal the invalids of war, a group of people who are constantly decreasing due to age - obvious natural reasons - to say to this group as soon as possible: the difference between the lowest salary and your pension is decreasing or even the opposite is in favour, because that was the intention of the legislators of 1991. I am convinced that the same intentions or the same intentions towards this group of people, the invalids of war, all sitting in the parliament of the Republic of Poland today. Hence the request not to extend or delay deadlines. Just one more point. Ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing worse than telling our combatants sometimes that for financial reasons we cannot meet their expectations. This is by no means ever, in my opinion, a bad will, so political trips, who better, who worse, should stop taking place, and we should really work together to ensure that in a better state of finances today - after all, we hear about it from the Parliamentary Speaker - also help those from whom we should learn patriotism on a daily basis. A call for quick proceding, unstoppable work and asking your marshal to support this kind of quick proceding in the Seym. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u365	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u366	High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I will present a position concerning the first reading of the Commission's draft law on amending the Act on the supply of war and military invalids and their families and some other laws. The proposed law introduces a new cash benefit intended for war invalids. The additional benefit of PLN 850 or PLN 637 will be a real help for the particularly well-deserved people who have proven their way of life what a fight is for the good of the country. The new supplement will benefit the group approx. $3,000. people who are veterans fighting for independence. The Club of the Polish People's Party supports these solutions and is in favour of further proceding the project in the committee during which the terminology inaccuracies will be refined.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u367	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the draft law amending the Act on the supply of war and military invalids and their families and some other laws from print no. 1888. Of course, the law in itself corresponds to the real need expressed in the petition. It shall be implemented in accordance with Article. 19 of the Constitution, the principle of special care by the Republic of Republic of Veterans fighting for independence, and especially for the disabled of war. However, one-off allowances are, in a sense, charity, rather than providing special care. Unfortunately, it is also selective treatment of those who have fought for our freedom. It is a pity that when it comes to such obvious things as medical measures or decent living, you have to write petitions and ask for laws every year. This group, which is really few and which we owe to today's life in free Poland, has to have constant support from the state and special care shown in a systematic manner. None of us do so-called. The grace that he is voting for to help the disabled of war - we owe it to them. Of course, Kukiz'15 will support the project, because unfortunately it must operate under the conditions of a system in which people have to petition and ask Members who should have a service role towards them on the obvious. In addition to the often repeated or shouted words on various occasions: honor and praise to heroes, they deserve a decent life, because no one will put words in a pot and no one will buy medicines with words.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u368	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Commission's draft law amending the Act on the supply of war and military invalids and their families and some other laws. The Act introduced by the Committee on Petitions of the Polish Parliament takes into account the demands of the Association of Invalidities of the War of the Republic of Poland, which seeks special financial support from the State for the group ca. $3,000. people who are disabled by war. I must admit that as a Polish woman, I am ashamed that so far no one has thought of this small group of war invalids who fought for freedom for our country and for us. Today, instead of enjoying a worthy autumn of life, they must ask the Polish Parliament for support. Somewhere in the fight for their own interests, the previous governments forgot that in the article. 19 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland is a provision that our country specially cares about veterans fighting for independence, especially the invalids of war. Of course, the invalids gained several privileges, among others. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings This is undoubtedly the right gesture towards this uniquely deserved group of people for our country. However, as the designers point out, the amounts of pensions paid in the last 10 years to war-related disabilities are decreasing as compared to the base amount. Therefore, it is appropriate to increase the amount of pensions paid to the level that will compensate for the serious health damage that the disabled have suffered by fighting for their homeland. According to estimates of the Association of Invalids of the War of the Republic of Poland, we are talking about a group of approx. $3,000. people in 2018, i.e. a small number. The proposed law provides for the creation of a new monetary benefit intended exclusively for war disabilities. The sum paid out of the budget for the invalidity of the war, together with the allowance created, would be equivalent in 2018 to ca. 93% base amount in force in 2017 As the proposed law is directly dedicated to a very few beneficiaries, its adoption will not create an excessive burden on the state budget. On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I would like to stress that the support of the state for those who are exemplary and who have lost their health and their ability to work in the fight for freedom, and often for their own existence, is our natural duty. The Free and Solidarni Circle fully supports the bill and asks all clubs and parliamentary circles to support it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u369	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the Commission's draft law amending the Act on the supply of war and military invalids and their families and certain other laws, contained in print No 1888, to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. On this we exhausted the agenda of the 50th meeting of the Polish Sejm. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Please, Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko, Polish People's Party, has the floor. There's no envoy. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u370	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to inform the High House of a major historical event in Polish Pomerania. Famous - this is the name of a beautiful city located in the Central Pomerania, halfway between Szczecin and Gdansk and Koszalin and Słupsk, at the confluence of the Wieprzy and Moszczenica rivers, 20 km from the Baltic Sea coast. On May 22, this year, 13,000. The inhabitants of the city celebrated the anniversary of 700 years of obtaining city rights. 700 years of history of the city located near the historical border between the West Pomerania and the Gdańsk Pomerania, along the Chełm Mountain massif near my home town Koszalin, shows the turbulent history of this Slavic and Piast region at its beginning. The city was first mentioned in 1186 as a Kashubian settlement. The famous land and the famous land belonged to the first Piast countries. At the beginning of the 13th century, the city came under the rule of the princes of Western Pomerania, and a few years later it was dominated by the Duke of Gdansk Świętopelka. Under the reign of the princes of Gdansk it was until 1308, when they were armedly overrun by the Brandenburg margraves, who then in 1316 handed over their sovereignty to the princes of West Pomerania. The town's location act of 22 May 1317, drawn up by the Pomeranian rulers of the Slavic family of Święców - John, Peter and Lawrence - states that the city: it will be able to enjoy the freedom of use of water up to the salt sea. All cities of the south coast of the Baltic Sea, from Hamburg to Riga, accepted Lubecian law binding them to the Baltic Sea, used a separate language and used an organization and a maritime communication road enabling economic contacts. The city has also taken over the existing coat of arms of the family of Święców - a sea griffin called a ribograf with an added chessboard. After the end of the 30-year war in 1648 the city became part of Brandenburg and later Prussia. In 1945, during the battle of Pomerania, in which she also participated 1. Polish Army Army, the city was destroyed in 45%. After the war, the city grew, which shows the economy of the inhabitants and the concern for the future of the next generations. Today, the period of historical splendor of the city is reminiscent of preserved magnificent monuments - Gothic church of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary built in the 14th century and the town walls with Gothic gates from the 15th century: Koscarina and Poles. On the occasion of the 700th anniversary, the famous inhabitants of the castle led by their mayor, Krzysztof Frankenstein, planted 700 trees on one of the settlements of Park 700th anniversary. This living monument of history immortalizes the turbulent history of the city in Pomerania, Poland today. The planted oaks will survive many future generations, talking about the people of this land and about the wind blowing from the sea, about which Pope John Paul II spoke with such affection on 1 June 1991 during his visit to the Kostine land. I think that I will gain the approval of Members of Parliament, if from this place, from the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, I wish the most heartfelt wishes of all prosperity to the inhabitants of Slavna and the land of the famous people on the occasion of the 700th anniversary of their city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u371	Thank you very much, sir. And I'm joining you. And now you have the floor of Mr Sylvester Tulaev, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u372	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 18 October 2017, a police officer from the Lublin garrison of Sergeant Lublin died in the execution of her duties. Magdalena Dolebska. She was a Dwarf Highway Police officer. She's been on the force for five years. From the beginning of her professional path she was associated with the dwarf command. She has been awarded many times for conscientiousness, commitment and activity. She organized meetings with residents of the Dwarf district and participated in these meetings, talking about safety on the road. She was particularly involved in the education of children and young people. St. Sergeant. Magdalena Dolebska fully fulfilled the vows of a police officer, protecting the security of the state and citizens. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let's celebrate her memory with a moment of silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u373	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u374	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This year we celebrate the 33rd anniversary of the death of the blessed Fr. Jerzy Popiełuszko, murdered in 1984 by the Security Service of the Polish People's Republic, martyr for faith and freedom. There would be no free Poland today if it were not for the sacrifice of blessed life and the activity of the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union, which, by the decision of the Holy Father Francis, became a patron. Blessed Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko was born on 14 September 1947. To celebrate his 70th birthday in Suchowola and in Okopach, a family village, two-day anniversary celebrations were held under the patronage of the President of the Republic of Poland. They were organized by the Good Foundation, founded by the blessed family, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons, the Institute of National Remembrance and the Mayor of Suchowola. The celebrations echoed loudly in Poland and were an expression of gratitude and a symbol of the memory of Fr. George. On 21 October, on the initiative of the President of the Podlaskie Region of NSZZ, Solidarity with the support of the city of Białystok and the Management Board of Podlaskie Voivodeship in the Dramatic Theatre in Białystok took place the premiere of the performance Popieruszko - the mystery of life Fr. George. The performance not only showed the life story of the blessed, but it was also a manifesto of faith. A day later there were celebrations in Suchvola to commemorate the memory of Fr. George and his parents, sleep. Władysław and Marianna. It was attended by delegations from all over the country. On that day, also on the initiative of the Minister of Environment and State Forests, the Solidarity oak was planted to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the blessed Fr. The ashes. As a member of the Podlasie land, the falcon land from which Fr. Jerzy, I would like to thank all the institutions involved in commemorating the blessed Fr. Jerzy, especially the mayor of Suchvola Michał Matyskiel, the Podlaskie Solidarity, led by President Józef Mozolewski, through whom Fr. George continues and is nurtured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-27-sejm-50-3.u375	Thank you, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 50th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 51st session of the Sejm, convened on 8 and 9 November 2017, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 14 min 09]]
