ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u1	Resume session. I would like to appoint Mr Agata Borowiec, Mr Marcin Duszek, Mr Krystian Jarubas and Mr Kinga Gajewska-Płochocka to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Agata Borowiec and Mr Marcin Duszek. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Agata Borowiec and Krystian Jarubas. High Seym! After consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to delete from the agenda the current meeting of item 26: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law on the Poznań Metropolitan Union (print No 1196). The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. The application is print number 1289. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors Convention, submitted draft resolutions: - on the commemoration of the 75th anniversary of the National Army, - on the celebration of the 150th anniversary of the Gymnastic Society of Falcons. The designs are 1291 and 1292 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these projects. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the commemoration of the 75th anniversary of the establishment of the National Army (print No 1291). I ask Members to stand. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] I'll read the draft resolution. The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the commemoration of the 75th anniversary of the National Army. Seventy-five years ago, on 14 February 1942, by order of General Władysław Sikorski, Chief Leader of the Polish Armed Forces, the conspiracy Army was transformed into a National Army in occupied Poland, whose activity is one of the most famous cards in the history of Poland and which has made a huge contribution to the fight for freedom of Europe. The National Army was the best organized and largest underground army in occupied Europe. It consisted of over 200 organizations. Hundreds of thousands of soldiers who gained military experience in the conditions of the city conspiracy and in the guerrilla were able to challenge the regular army in an open fight: first during the action of the storm - an operation against Germany started when the first Red Army troops entered the territory of the Second Republic of Poland and then in the Warsaw Uprising - the largest and longest battle of the occupied Europe, which inspired the thoughts and dreams of free Poles for the next half century. After the end of World War II, the soldiers of the National Army were persecuted and persecuted by the authorities of the Polish People's Republic, sentenced to years of imprisonment and even death. After years of armed struggle with the invaders, there was also a time of struggle for truth and memory. The great determination and belief in victory, which winged them on the battlefield, allowed to preserve the truth about Poland from the period of World War II and did not allow to destroy the memory of the fallen, murdered and expelled comrades of arms from their homeland. Today, the National Army is not only a symbol of the struggle for a free and independent Republic, but also a symbol of the highest values such as: bravery, patriotism and willingness to bear sacrifices for the good of Poland. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to all soldiers of the National Army and expresses its conviction that their attitude will be a moral sign for the next generations of Poles, liberating a sense of national pride and creating a bond with the Homeland. I ask Members to adopt a resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on commemorating the 75th anniversary of the National Army. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Bureau of the Sejm on the celebration of the 150th anniversary of the establishment of the Gymnastic Association (Print No 1292). I will read to you, the High House, the content of the draft resolution. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Polish Sejm on celebrating the 150th anniversary of the Gymnastic Association 'Sokół'. The Gymnastics Association 'Sokół', the oldest Polish youth, patriotic and sports organization, celebrates this year's 150th anniversary of activities. At the basis of the Lviv foundation on 7 February 1867. The Society was the development and popularization of Polish sport. Over time, the Society also adopted independence and patriotic character. The Falcon activists took part in insurgents' fights and warfare, among others. They were soldiers of the Polish Legions, the Blue Army led by General Haller, as well as in the Wielkopolska Uprising and the Silesian Uprisings. After the war, they contributed to the creation of many sports clubs, a large part of which were women's sections. They played a major role in the formation of the Polish Scouts Association, providing staff, organizational and material support. The honorary members of the Falcon were Ignacy Jan Paderewski and John Paul. II. After World War II, the communist authorities repeatedly refused to register the association, which is why it operated outside Poland. It resumed its activity immediately after the fall of communism in 1989, carrying out educational, sports, cultural and pro-defence activities in Poland and abroad. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the 150th anniversary of the uprising of the Gymnastic Association 'Sokół' expresses respect for all the activists of the Polish Sokolation who contributed to the upbringing of many generations of Polish youth in the spirit of patriotism and civic attitudes. I ask the High House to adopt a resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the celebration of the 150th anniversary of the establishment of the Gymnastic Society of the Falcon. High Seym! I would like to announce another anniversary to the House. Today is the 77th anniversary [[The Gathered Rise Up]] the first mass export of Polish citizens from the Eastern Kresów into the USSR, which was the beginning of mass repression. There were 1350 thousand in the exile. citizens of the Republic of Poland. Let's celebrate their memory in a moment of silence. [[A moment of silence]] Thank you very much. I would like to inform the High House that at the moment I will ask Mrs Monika Wieliczhowska from the Civic Platform Club, who has made a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u2	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 3 point 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I propose a formal recess so that the Prime Minister or government representative may explain to the public and the High House why today a series of disciplinary hearings concerning 10 teachers from Zabrzane school began, which on 3 October, when a black protest was held in Poland, came to work dressed in black and during the break when the students were taken care of, took a picture. This photo was posted on a social media site. Mr. Marshal, the Platform Club is in solidarity with the teachers and we demand that this ridiculous court be immediately dismissed. [[But not all girls are dressed in black.]] We demand, above all, respect for democracy, freedom, respect for the Constitution. Why does the PiS want to punish today for having their own opinions? Why does the PiS want to intimidate teachers today? Tomorrow the PiS will punish for their own views and only those of the PiS will count. Tomorrow she will punish all Poles and all Poles. I wanted to ask the Prime Minister and the Government: Is the silent gesture of solidarity disturbing the PiS state? Why are there attempts in Poland to intimidate people with their views? Why is the fight against women continued? Why are repressions introduced, and why are such absurd accusations formed? We very much ask you to explain this absurd situation not only to the High House but also to the public. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u3	Although this proposal is not about the agenda, the Minister of Education wanted to take the floor. Minister, I'd just like you to take this as a vote against. [[After all, the Minister may speak on any matter.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a Member of the Republic of Poland, the vote and the motion against. The disciplinary board is an independent body formed by each voivode, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] consisting of people with high ethics and high sensitivity. Your appearances, any appearances, are an interference in the independence of this body. Let's wait for this committee to decide. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[It's a decision. One has already been punished.]] At the same time, I would like to remind you and ask you: we are talking about a school where students with disabilities are present. Respect your parents' sensitivity. [[But it didn't bother my parents, it was a lunch break, don't tell the minister.]] The law clearly states, and the state seems to know educational law and education system law, in Article. 56 clearly states that political activity or political aggression cannot be carried out on the school premises. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u5	In that case, we shall proceed to the vote on the formal proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. 162 voted against - 252, 3 Members abstained. I find that the proposal has not been accepted. We return to the consideration of item 17 of the agenda: Information of the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the tasks of Polish foreign policy in 2017. In the discussion, a request was made to reject the information submitted, which I will put to the vote. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm has accepted the information. Questions are raised by Mr Adam Szłapka and Mr Robert Winnicki. Mr Adam Szłapka, Modern Club. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Minister! Yesterday we heard information from the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the tasks of Polish foreign policy for 2017. We asked questions and not all of them were answered, so I will repeat them. Minister, why did you not participate in the fundamental meetings of President Kaczyński with Angela Merkel and did you not attend the meetings of President Kaczyński and Viktor Orbán? It's no secret to anyone that these were the most important meetings. These meetings discussed the future, e.g. The European Union, you weren't at those meetings. Please answer this question because it is a fundamental question. Is this your information, or is this the information of President Kaczyński? We are in favour of rejecting this information at first reading because we fundamentally disagree with the principles of foreign law and justice policy, but that is not all. [[Voice from the room: There is only one reading.]] We don't agree. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore that we are opposed to a person with such a weak political position in the government leading as important a matter as foreign policy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u7	Thank you, sir. Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I repeat the questions that the Minister did not answer yesterday during the debate. So the first question: Why Poland in the international forum for your management supports the LGBT lobby - in June ub. on the European Council in November. R. in the UN forum? Why is Poland part of the globalism treaties of CETA and TTIP under your rule, which has nothing to do with the economic patriotism that you are preaching? Finally, why was Mr. Jan Hell appointed in the ministry under your rule as ambassador to Kiev? You declared yesterday that we were also interested in historical truth in relations with Ukraine. Of course, Mr Hell's nomination denies that we are interested in Polish historical policy in relations with Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u9	Thank you. Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for Minister Waszczykowski. Why do you refuse to allow a parliamentary club to work with Russia? We have hundreds of years of common border. We have a very difficult story, but we have to open the card after the card. Why don't you give your consent? As Marshal Terlecki and Mrs Mazurek claim, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs refused to grant permission to such a parliamentary club. [[Team.]] [[Team.]] Parliamentary team. I believe that people who are capable of dialogue with Russia should create a good climate, because this is needed not only for our entrepreneurs, but also for local governments cooperating with Russian lands. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u11	Thank you. Mr Konrad Głębocki, Club Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u12	Dear Marshal, Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! Because yesterday in this room a hat was arranged against the Polish government, Minister Waszczykowski, from Mr Grzegorz Schetin's mouth, Mr Richard Petru... [[What hat? Evaluation isn't a hat.]] [[What are you talking about?]] ...there's no way to ask a few questions. Minister, is it true that the PO-PSL government drowned billions of dollars in Euroson to save her, and we're not even a member of the Eurozone? Minister, is it true that 32 diplomatic posts were liquidated under the PO-PSL regime, thus ruining the diplomatic service? Today, Polish foreign policy is conducted in an individual manner. When you were in charge, you were sailing, as you said, in the main stream, which meant salvaging Poland towards other countries. [[We were the leader then, today with a laughing stock.]] Stop throwing hats and start thinking about the Polish state, because yesterday's speeches were harmful to Poland. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: start thinking.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u13	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Mr Waszczykowski's speech yesterday can be described as a very high level of generality. There have been many very specific questions, Minister, which unfortunately have not been answered. I asked what is the government's position regarding the so-called. Eurocorpus. This criticized PO-PSL government has taken a number of steps to ensure that Poland actively participates in Eurocorp as a project which today seems to be the most realistic response to threats, to the most important challenges of foreign policy, namely those related to security. So I wanted to repeat that question today. What is the position vis-à-vis Poland's participation in Eurocorp as a response not only to defence challenges but also to migration challenges and all related phenomena? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u15	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of a motion to reject information will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 190 votes against - 231 and 11 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the request and therefore accepted the information. [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that the clubs have applied for items to supplement the agenda: - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers concerning the Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and Canada - CETA - notified by the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, - Information from the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy on the actual reasons for appeal 41 of the 43 branches of the Social Insurance Institution and information on future pensions paid by the Social Security Office - reported by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, - Information from the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the reasons for taking the protection of former presidents when travelling abroad and information which persons in the State have the active protection of the BOR - notified by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, - Information from the Minister of Defence on the modernisation of the military fleet of helicopters - reported by the Modern Posel Club. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 We are voting on the proposal of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club concerning the CETA agreement. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the request to supplement the agenda with a point including information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and Canada - CETA, would like to raise its hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The vote was 205, against 225, with six abstentions. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. We are voting on the proposal of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club regarding the situation in the Social Security Office. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the request to supplement the agenda with a point including information on the Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy on the actual reasons for the cancellation of 41 of the 43 branches of the Social Insurance Institution and information on future pensions paid by the Social Security Office, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 195, against 230, with four abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the proposal of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform on the protection granted by the BOR. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the request to supplement the agenda with a point including information from the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the reasons for taking protection from former presidents during their foreign travel and information which persons in the State have active protection of the BOR will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 171 voted against - 263, three Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Poselski Club for information of the Minister of National Defence. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the request to supplement the agenda with a point including information from the Minister for National Defence on the modernisation of the military fleet of helicopters will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 201 voted against - 231, 6 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. We return to the examination of item 1 of the Public Finance Commission's report on the government draft law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1192-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Jan Szewczak to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u16	Ladies and gentlemen! The work lasted for many days and hours in the subcommittee, which dealt with this complex issue of derivatives, the introduction and implementation of EU legislation into the Polish legal order. They were conducted in a substantive atmosphere. This is undoubtedly a matter of regulation, which is assessed differently in the world, because these derivatives are considered to be one of the causes of the great financial crisis in 2008, but these are the requirements for acceptance of these rules. We have both the implementation of derivatives legislation and our Polish regulations. There have been some controversy particularly about the level of penalties imposed on those who violate this new legal order, but it is actually the only point in the dispute. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u17	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 1192. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. Amendments 1 and 2 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose to add Article in the amended act. 15a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The vote was 428 against - 4 and 1 member abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose, inter alia, that in Article. 79 of the amended act add paragraph. 2b. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 432, against - 2, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment, the applicants propose that the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, the Deposit Guarantee Scheme and the compulsory restructuring add an article. 34a and Article 34a 34b. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 1192, along with the amendments adopted, will be willing to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. There were 422 votes in favour, no one voted against, five Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws. We return to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government draft law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1266-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Jan Szewczak to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u18	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As a matter of fact, such different legislative giants go to the Permanent Sub-Committee on Financial Institutions. These are very difficult legal acts, because often counting several hundred pages, including several hundred articles, several hundred pages of justification, often translated alive, can be said, from foreign languages. They often cause a problem because the pace of this work is enormous, we have so to say, to catch up on lost time, often a number of years of delays in the implementation of EU directives. It takes a lot of attention and a lot of competence not to miss something, because these requirements are extremely strict. I just want to say that in this legal act there are financial penalties of 80 million for legal persons and more than 20 million for a natural person. These are not trivial things, and here we had some doubts - both the subcommittee and the committee itself - whether this rigor is going too far, whether it is tailored to the real financial opportunities in Poland. But here the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was clear that we must keep such a provision of this directive. We have prepared these comments, we have worked through this project and I would like to thank all those who participated, especially in the subcommittee, in working on this difficult legal act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u19	Please. I would remind you that the committee is requesting the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1266. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment, among others. to the part of the common paragraph. Article 1 170e of the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments, applicants propose a different amount of monetary penalties to be imposed in cases of infringements committed by the Central Securities Depositor. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Michał Jaros, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u20	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the rapporteur, but also for Mr Pis: why have you changed your mind between the subcommittee meeting and the committee meeting? First of all, because the social side contributed its proposals and comments to the draft law, which is the implementation of EU law. Why do you want to impose gigantic penalties on Polish entrepreneurs, even at the level of PLN 80 million, contrary to the social side, the Association of Stock Exchange Issuers, as well as institutions such as the National Securities Depositories or the Financial Supervision Commission? Is it taking care of Polish business, about Polish entrepreneurs? Please answer me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u21	The question to the rapporteur was. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. In 192 votes against - 224, 13 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, among others. to Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013; Article 96 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1i of the Act on Public Offering and Conditions of Introduction of Financial Instruments to Organized Trading and Public Companies, applicants propose a different amount of fines imposed for infringement of the Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u22	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The penalties applied in this Act are devoid of... There is no common sense here and no consideration of Polish realities. The government once claims, in some directives, that these penalties can be adjusted to the standards and scale of the Polish stock exchange's activities and once not. Therefore, one must consider and choose one path. The penalty of PLN 80 million is far too high for Polish entrepreneurs and if you consider yourselves to be a government that cares about the interests of Poles, then it is absolutely necessary to negotiate such penalties. Polish entrepreneurs cannot be subject to such penalties. On the other hand, I would also like to draw the attention of Minister Zalewska to the fact that I do not know anything about this so that the black outfit is a symptom of spreading political views in Poland, and the Teacher's Charter clearly states that the teacher's profession is committed to shaping [[♪ The bell ♪]] At the students' moral attitudes and...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u23	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u24	...citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u25	Would the rapporteur like to comment on the comments? I can't see. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 24 Members abstained from voting 186 against - 224. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1266, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 355, against - 33, with 43. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws. We return to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law on the exchange of tax information with other countries. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1267-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, two amendments were considered concerning the dates of entry into force of the relevant provisions of the draft law. According to the Minister of Public Finance, the 7-day deadline for the tax administration is a safe term. On the other hand, the date of entry into force of the entire law, i.e. 1 May 2017, meets the expectations of tax institutions, which is why the Committee on Public Finance proposes that this date be maintained. The Committee on Public Finance proposes to reject these two amendments and recommends that the draft law be adopted in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u27	Please. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1267. We will vote first on the amendments that the committee puts forward in its additional report. In the first amendment to Article. 100 applicants shall propose to amend the time limit referred to in that provision. Amendment 2 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 188, against - 232, with 14 Members holding back. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1267, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. Two Members abstained in favour of 424 votes against - 2 votes against. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on the exchange of tax information with other countries. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on Senate and Governmental drafts of laws on amending the Public Finance Act. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1229. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no.1229 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm unanimously passed a law amending the Public Finance Act. We are returning to the review of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending the Law on Public Use and Volunteering. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1220-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Ursula Rusecka to present this additional report.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I have the honour to present an additional report on print No 1220-A on the government bill amending the Act on Public Use and Volunteering. During the second reading, one amendment was introduced. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy at its meeting on 8 February 2017 has given a negative opinion on the above amendment and asks the High House to reject this amendment. At the same time, we call for the proposed bill to be passed in its entirety. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u29	Thank you very much. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 1180. We will vote on the amendment first. In the only amendment to the article. 27a Act on public benefit activities and on volunteering to the added paragraph. 3a and by the addition of paragraph 3. 3b applicants shall propose that the Minister responsible for social security shall include the organisation referred to in that provision in the list of organisations having the status of a public benefit organisation after consulting the Council for Public Use. The Commission, as we have heard, calls for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u30	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! [[Why not black?]] I am terrified, ladies and gentlemen, that even in a good project you are able to let in a drop of bitterness. This amendment was intended to improve your record, which allows the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy to leave discretionaryly in the register of organisations that did not comply with the reporting obligation. I have repeatedly argued that this solution is beneficial on the one hand when an organization finds itself in a difficult situation, but it may lead to getting some organizations out of trouble, but not others. The environment of NGOs is very committed to transparency and clarification of this situation. Why should the Ministry be able to be the only organisation, as the only institution for discretionary selection, to which organisations will help and which it will not help? Ladies and gentlemen, this cannot be done. Let us be loyal to the organization, to the citizens, let us listen to them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u31	Thank you. Then we shall proceed to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 200 Members voted against - 234, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No 1180 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 422, 1 Member voted against, 2 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Act on Public Use and Volunteering. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Social Policy and Family Committee on the Senate draft law on the amendment of the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1226. The question is asked by Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is another situation: we have a good amendment to the wrong bill. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, you are trying to centralize all power... [[Do the other way around sometime.]] ...to create tools that will allow you to pull strings when we talk about citizens [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] And their taxes. [[That's not the bill.]] I have a question about this amendment because... [[Voices from the room: There is no correction.]] I have a question for... I have a question. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for an amendment because this amendment concerns your amendment. [[But there's no amendment.]] When will this be introduced? Why quickly, in the last few seconds, are you introducing a bill that isn't presented to anyone? They shall not be presented to Members or to any experts. There's no amendment, but that's what it's about... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] ...because your work, ladies and gentlemen, is irrational and shows disrespect for the citizens. [[This is a senate project. You've got the wrong project.]] We have a senate project, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm aware of that, but it was you who voted on the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u33	I'm sure you're talking about... You must have referred to the bill in its entirety. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 1226 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The vote was 425, against - 2, no one abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Health Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care. We proceed to the third reading. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1240-A. I ask Mr Zbigniew Pavlovicz to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u34	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Health an additional report on the government draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare, print No. 1098. At the second reading of this law, three amendments were tabled at the 35th session of the Sejm. The Health Committee, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 9 February, recommends that the High House reject all three amendments and adopt print law No 1098 without amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u35	Of course, the Member spoke about the bill because the report is in print 1240. The Commission is presenting, as we have heard, amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. Point 5 of the applicant proposes to add a provision stating that the primary healthcare practitioner is paid additionally for initiating the diagnosis resulting in the diagnosis of malignant cancer. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Annually in Poland, 140 thousand. people have cancer. Each of us had a family, a family member, or a family member who has cancer. Each of us knows that early diagnosis is crucial in the treatment of cancer. That's why we introduced laws that motivated family doctors to recognize cancer faster and more efficiently. In Europe, such an indicator is 6, 6, i.e., a family doctor must recognize the cancer in 6 and 8 patients he is studying. We've introduced an index of 1 in 15, which is what we expect from the doctor that in one case 15 patients should properly diagnose cancer. Today, you are removing all these incentive indicators. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I don't get it, and patients don't get it. Why is the Minister of Health in the Prime Minister's Government... I wonder. Maybe the Prime Minister didn't even notice the detail, but he's crucial. Why is the Minister of Health who comes from the family doctors' community...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u37	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u38	It removes motivational requirements for this environment and at the same time raises the stakes equally for everyone, which means it endures any motivation to study patients...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u39	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u40	...with cancer? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u41	The rapporteur doesn't apply either? Good. [[Voice from the Chamber: This is not the rapporteur.]] [[Question.]] [[Voice from the room: There is no mode.]] Mr Tomasz Latos with a question. There you go. I'd just ask you to report me earlier.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u42	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We fully understand this situation, which is related to oncology, but at the same time it must also be made clear that only in individual cases did this diagnosis occur that it was rarer than in one out of 15 cases, hence the rule was basically dead. We are ordering matters related to the oncology package, simplifying this package, just so that it serves Polish patients. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u43	There you go. [[Question.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 176 Members voted against - 234, with 27. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Point 1 (6) (a) b applicants propose to include, inter alia, diagnostics and oncology treatment cards. the medical records of the multidisciplinary therapeutic team planning and coordinating the oncology treatment process, and not, as proposed by the committee, of the physician involved in establishing the oncology treatment plan. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 198 Members voted against - 233, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. Point 7 of the applicant proposes that the performance indicators for oncology diagnosis and treatment be transmitted to the National Health Fund in advance of the committee's proposal. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 202 Members voted against - 229, with 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before voting on the whole draft law, Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz is asked. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish Coalition of Oncological Patients is an organization that brings together dozens of different organizations of cancer patients. This Polish Coalition of Oncological Patients concluded that 97% patients treated for cancer are treated on time and on time. And they're only being treated for one real reason, because the key to the oncology package is the consilium, which is the moment the doctors sit down to the same table to take care of the patient, not the patient runs from office to office. You're sealing up this system. You're letting it be possible not to perform consyli on a patient. This is a return to a situation where a patient with cancer needs to look for a doctor, often in his private office, because he will not have this consilium. The law has so far forced doctors to take care of the patient, not the patient looking for doctors, often in private offices. This is a very bad recipe. This is a very bad time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Consilium is the key to treating cancer. Poland knows it, Europe knows it and the world knows it. You can't light it up. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u45	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Tomasz Latos, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u46	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Minister, is it true that the intention of the government is still to maintain the consilies, but there are rare cases - but they are, they happen in some medical specialties or even in some cases - that this consilium is unnecessary. Everyone knows that. Everyone was discussing it at the committee meeting. There are cases. I will tell you more, Mr President, during the committee debate, he also mentioned cases where the consilium could be abandoned. Is it the government's intention, then, to actually eliminate the consilies, or on the contrary, to sustain them, and only in some cases to abandon them? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u47	Thank you. Please take the floor of Deputy Minister of Health Katarzyna Głowala.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u48	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Consilies are regulated in the so-called. the basket regulation and we do not eliminate these consilies. That's all. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u49	Please. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1240, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 285 Members voted against - 116, 32 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the law on public-funded healthcare provision. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law on the National Agricultural Support Centre. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1245-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Jerzy Małecki to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u50	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report on the draft law on the National Agricultural Support Centre. Four amendments were tabled during the second reading in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. After considering these amendments, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development recommends adopting two amendments and rejecting two amendments. Of course, we are asking for the bill to be adopted in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u51	Thank you, sir. The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1245. In an additional report, the committee sets out the amendments that we will be voting on first. In the first amendment to Article. 3 (1) (a) 3 (4) applicants propose that the status of the National Agricultural Support Centre should be determined in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship by the seat of the field departments and their territorial scope. Amendment 2 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. There was 273 votes against - 150 and one Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. 15 The applicant shall propose to delete paragraph. 2. Amendment 4 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u52	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! The amendments, which I would like to ask the High House for support, concern the blocking of the possibility of issuing bonds by the National Agricultural Support Centre for the pawning of Polish land. We do not even agree to the potential possibility for foreign capital to take over Polish land, nor do we agree to creative accounting, which can be carried out as a result of the issuance of bonds by the National Agricultural Support Centre. My question: Why do you support the possibility of selling Polish land as well as creative accounting? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u53	This question will be answered by Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Zbigniew Babalski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u54	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, do not mislead, especially Polish farmers and the Polish countryside. I inform the High House that this provision has been in operation since 1991, it is in the Agricultural Property Act. So far, there haven't been any of the cases you mentioned here. I just want to add one more essential thing: the minister responsible for public finances must issue the consent to issue his own bonds, so do not scare the Polish village by selling Polish land. It's just not true. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u55	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 3 and 4 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 72 voted against - 353, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. Before the vote on the draft law as a whole, Members asked questions. Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have two questions. I'm going to the finance minister first. Minister, when will the decision be made to accredit the activities of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, which will take over the tasks after the liquidation of the Agricultural Market Agency? The second question is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. Minister, what substantive arguments have led to the liquidation of the Agricultural Property Agency and the Agricultural Market Agency and the establishment of the National Agricultural Support Centre? Experts warn that such a solution will lead to organizational chaos in the countryside, mass layoffs of workers in the Agricultural Property Agency and the Agricultural Market Agency, as well as increased costs. We are also interested in what information system will be used to support beneficiaries [[♪ The bell ♪]] as part of the implementation of tasks at the National Agricultural Support Centre. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u57	Please. Member Blazej Parda, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First you forbade the sale of this Polish land to use it and to indebt us, Poles, even more, enlisting, issuing bonds. Why are you acting like this? Maybe because the budget's prudential thresholds are getting closer and closer, and soon this budget could be blown up. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u59	Minister Babalski? [[Voice from the room: No.]] We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 1245, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 233 voted against - 193, 6 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on the National Agricultural Support Centre. We would like to refer to item 9 on the following: Report from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft law Rules introducing the Act on the National Agricultural Support Centre. The additional report shall be in print No 1246-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Jerzy Małecki to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u60	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft Law Rules introducing the Act on the National Agricultural Support Centre, print no. 1217. Seven amendments were tabled during the second reading of the committee. The Commission has examined the amendments, three recommends acceptance and four reject. Of course, it also calls for the bill to be adopted in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u61	Thank you, sir. Let me remind you, it's a 1246 print. We will first vote on the amendments tabled in the report. In the first amendment to Article. 40d of the Act on the Agricultural Market Agency and the organisation of certain agricultural markets, applicants propose to amend paragraph 1. 5b. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The vote was 269, against 158, and no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 47 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. There were 198 votes against - 231, and no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 50 applicants shall propose the new wording of paragraph. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 199 voted against - 228, 1 member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 51 of the draft law, the applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph 1. 6. The adoption of this amendment will render amendments 5 and 6 irrelevant. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. The question is asked by Marek Sawicki, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this law, as in the Civil Service Act, there is a full exchange of personnel. All the existing employees of these institutions are losing their jobs and will be rehired. [[And Elewarr?]] You've already taken over Elewarr. Mr Tarczyński, I have a request for you. Instead of advertising furs, start advertising straitjacket. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] We propose in Amendment 6, Mr Kaczyński, to respect those protected at retirement age, from retirement age, pregnant women and on maternity leave... [[And the wreath?]] ...so that they are not subject to a proxy, which, as Minister Babalski said in the agriculture committee, will be a human master, employing pregnant women again, women after maternity leave or persons in protected areas. [[♪ The bell ♪]] pre-retirement period. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u63	Minister Zbigniew Babalski will address these comments and questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Minister! Mr President, Minister, not the human master, but he will be this man's proxy. It will be called within 3 days of the publication of the bill in the journal. Art. The 51 you've been talking about will be performing a proxy. Every case you have mentioned here today will be dealt with individually. Don't scare those workers, especially the ladies you're talking about who's gonna be pregnant. I repeat once again: any case with integrity and integrity will be dealt with. [[We don't believe it.]] This will be the responsibility of a proxy who will be directly subject to the Minister of Agriculture. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You're a human man.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u65	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. There were 274 votes against - 156, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 5 and 6 are therefore irrelevant. In the 7th amendment to the article. 59 applicants propose an amendment to the calculation. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 251 against 175, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 1246, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 266 voted against - 166, 2 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed legislation introducing a law on the National Agricultural Support Centre. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government draft law amending the Law Rules introducing the Local Government Act and the Local Government Act. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1243. The Commission also presents minority proposals on which we will vote first. Minority requests from 1 to 3 have been submitted to Article. 1 point 2 of the draft amending act containing amendments to the Act Provisions introducing the Local Government Act and the Local Government Act. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. Article 18a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 2 applicants propose that the members of the committee appoint and dismiss the President of the Council of Ministers at the request of the Minister responsible for public administration. The question is raised by Marek Owa, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u66	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This amendment is so important that it really concerns the appointment of members of the National Court of Justice. The National Envoy Commission is to consider the appeals of the voivodships, so the rank of those who will be called to it is really high. It is difficult to imagine that it is subject only to the supervision of the Minister responsible for administration. But there's a second point. This is another example of taking away your Prime Minister's influence on the administration of your government. It cannot be that every now and then we hear that in individual resorts, the Prime Minister is unable to respond to the situation. Imagine the situation that the National Court Committee will be appointed an example of Misiewicz with a higher education. So? Then there'll be another embarrassment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u67	Is there a government representative here... I can't see. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 165 voted against - 262, 1 member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the second minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete point 4 of Article. Article 18a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 4. The adoption of this proposal will result in the nullity of the 3rd minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. There were 163 votes against and 261 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the third minority proposal to Article. Article 18a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 4 (4) applicants propose that a person may be appointed within the committee who has not been convicted by a final judgment for intentional offences. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 198, against - 231, and 1 Member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 4th minority proposal to Article. 3 The amending act of the applicant shall propose that paragraph be deleted. 3. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. There were 143 votes against, 262 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1243, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 410 voted against - 11, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Law on Rules introducing the Local Government Act and the Local Government Act. We would like to return to the review of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's draft law on the system for monitoring the carriage of goods by road. The additional committee report is in print No 1269-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Maria Zuba to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u68	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! At the second reading of the government draft law on the road freight monitoring system on 8 February, amendments to the draft law were received. There were eight amendments. At a joint meeting, the Committee on Public Finance and the Infrastructure Committee gave an opinion on these amendments and I ask on behalf of these two committees to adopt amendments 5 and 7. As a result of the adoption of these amendments, the entry into force of this Law will be postponed from 1 March to 1 May 2017. This is at the request of the Members of the Law and Justice, and there have also been such voices during the debate from the environments interested in amending these rules. As far as the other amendments are concerned, the committees request that they be rejected. On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure, I ask the High House to adopt Amendments 5 and 7, reject the remaining amendments and adopt the entire bill together with Amendments 5 and 7, including those voted on. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u69	There you go. I would like to remind you that this is a draft of the 1269 Print Act. We will vote first on minority proposals and amendments. In the first amendment to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete paragraph 3. 8. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is raised by Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u70	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Such blanquet provisions, which, without specific conditions, allow the imposition of further draconian obligations on entrepreneurs in the form of a regulation, are the original sin of the Polish legislator. However, such obligations, serious obligations concerning entrepreneurs should only be imposed in the form of a law, because it is not the legislative centre of the government, not the lawyers, but we, Members, who are politically responsible for what rules are adopted by the High House. And that's how it is in this case. You are trying to push a provision that will allow the imposition of further draconian obligations on companies in the form of a regulation. I would like to ask you: Ladies and gentlemen, as long as you continue to present, the government will present to the High House [[♪ The bell ♪]] the kind of legislation that strengthens the power of officials over businesses? I would ask you to accept this amendment and delete it, to remove it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u71	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 198, against - 229, with 1 abstention. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Article 22 (2) (b) The applicant shall propose to delete point 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 196 voted against - 228, 1 member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the first minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 32. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of amendments 3 and 4. The question is raised by Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants whether they are aware that one of the grounds for the sentence is wine. How is the driver's fault to be found, who is often unaware of what he is carrying and is to be liable for a fine of 5 000. PLN to 7.5 thousand. Evil? It's a bullshit recipe. The responsibility should be borne by the ordering carrier or consignee, not by the driver. We therefore propose to delete this article so that drivers - tens of thousands of Polish drivers who carry different goods daily in their TIRs or are employed in transport companies - were unaware that they could be stopped on the Polish road in a moment and could receive a mandate from 5 000. PLN to 7.5 thousand. It's just that somebody put them on a mine. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u73	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 202 Members voted against - 224, four Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the third amendment to the article. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose that the fine laid down in that provision should be up to 1 000. zł. Amendment 4 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are asking for their rejection. The question is raised by Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! If you're gonna punish the drivers for not being held responsible if they're gonna pay the tickets for someone putting them on a mine, then at least let them have a fine height. Or forks for $5,000. PLN to 7.5 thousand. zł with today's earnings can cause that in practice a driver who takes the risk because driving a truck will be a risk, the risk will be the work of the driver, can lead to such a situation that here the driver, working, will not even be able to sustain his family? This is a kuriozum, but if that's the way it's supposed to be, maybe we can at least take this step -- let's lower the upper threshold of the mandate to $1,000. Evil, so that the driver who gets a ticket because he's been caught for them somewhere, at least he can survive by the end of the month and feed his family. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u75	The government doesn't see the need for an answer. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 3 and 4 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 205, against 225, and no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 5th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 38. Amendment 7 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are filing for their admission. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments 6 and 8 and minority proposals from 2 to 4. The question is put by Mr Stanisław Żmijan, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Amendments 5 and 7 concern the same issues as those contained in minority proposals 2, 3 and 4. That is, they concern the date of entry into force of the law, as well as the date of the possibility of imposing penalties on those drivers which the Member has just mentioned. In the explanatory memorandum of the Government's draft law, the government has really devoted most of the time to the effects of estimating the magnitude of the revenues resulting from the introduction of these regulations, as well as the costs of the national road administration, while in a word it has not concerned itself with the costs which will de facto be borne by those affected by the law, namely suppliers, consumers, in particular transport companies and drivers. So here's the question: [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why, by fixing one, because we are not opposed to introducing regulations that limit the grey zone, are you ruining the other, harming the road carriers? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u77	The Minister doesn't see the need. Then we shall proceed to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 5 and 7, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. Two Members abstained in favour of 265, against 163. I state that the Sejm has accepted the amendments and therefore amendments 6 and 8, 3rd minority proposal, 2nd minority proposal and 4th minority proposal are irrelevant. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Members of the House have asked questions. Member Stanisław Żmijan, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u78	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! During the work on this bill, we paid attention to many shortcomings, as well as legal gaps. We have tabled a number of proposals and amendments. The requests were also submitted by the social side, and a representative of the Central Data Protection Supervisor made serious reservations. Unfortunately, our amendments, comments and conclusions were in vain. He also found no recognition of the request for a subcommittee to proceed over this law. The question is: why do you harm road companies, [[♪ The bell ♪]] the road industry, which brings serious revenue to the state budget? 12% GDP, more than 12% He's a part of this business. The Western countries support their companies, but unfortunately you want to kill...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u79	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u80	...a whore who lays golden eggs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u81	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! No one denies the need to fight the shadow economy and fight tax crimes. These things must be happening and we must do this effectively, while this project that you have presented, which has justified it, is simply wrong. This project imposes absurd bureaucratic obligations on entrepreneurs. You are in this transport sector, which is fighting all over Europe for this market, which accounts for 1/3 of transport across Europe. Your project results in an increase in transport costs, that part will probably be closed. The draconian punishments you put in the project are completely unnecessary. You are hitting the transport industry, which should not be the subject of this project at all. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, the deadline you set for implementation, on 1 March of this year, is unfulfilled.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u83	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u84	It's unspeakable, it's absurd, so we're going to vote against this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u85	Mr Sylwester Khrushch, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u86	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! We, too, have been saying since the beginning of this debate that this law is very necessary, very good, that this is a good direction, but we are surprised why you want to spoil it. After all, these arguments were logical, supported by our discussion with the transport industry, with the Customs Service. They all said that we needed time to implement these solutions. What happened? You didn't listen to this. What's more, we're talking about punishing drivers. After all, the industry said it would take a few months to make all these regulations. We don't understand this position. That is why we as the Kukiz Members' Club15 recommend voting against this law because it harms our entrepreneurs and thus our competitiveness again, our economy goes back a few steps. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u87	Perhaps the Deputy Minister of Finance Leszek Skiba can explain, answer questions? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a bill that has two goals. The first objective is, of course, the fiscal objective, i.e. to ensure that taxes in Poland are paid and that the grey zone does not bloom. The second objective is that companies really can compete fairly among themselves. Because if we are dealing with transport companies, which very often - when it comes to those companies that benefit from the possibility of fuel smuggling - by smuggling, by earning tax avoidance, they subsidize their activities by operating below the threshold of profitability, then those honest companies, which are most of them, simply have trouble running on the free market and winning, can be said, in a natural, healthy competition. The bill is... There were many words that aren't true. First of all, drivers are not punished for the wrong goods carried in the car. The penalty that is imposed results only from one thing, that the driver does not have a notification number, which is necessary for the functioning of this law. Why is that 5,000? Evil? Because the information that Customs has indicates 5,000. zł This is today's rate, which the driver gets for smuggling from the German border to Poland illegal fuel. Customs is increasingly able to monitor the transport of goods, fuel smuggling, excise goods and rates for this one-off transport, smuggling of goods has actually increased. In order to avoid such a situation, penalties have been imposed for not having a notification number, although they are not... In fact, it is also possible to withdraw from them when it has a social justification. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u89	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1296, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. There were 231 votes against - 196, 3 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law on the monitoring system for the carriage of goods by road. We return to the review of item 14 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. The question is raised by Marcin Kierwiński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u90	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! One of the common constitutional standards is the possibility of appealing a decision by a public authority. This is not the case for recently ordered exhumations of victims of the Smolensk disaster. In recent months we have witnessed many appeals, very emotional and dramatic, some families of victims of the Smolensk disaster, asking to stop these exhumations. These people were even denied the right to appeal against the arbitrary decision of the prosecution. This bill is about to change that. Law and Justice doesn't want to work on this bill, they want to reject it right away, without any discussion. And here's a question for Minister Ziobra. Minister, what are you afraid of, so you can appeal the D.A.'s decision? After all, if these decisions are important, fair, fair, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm sure they'll defend themselves in court, and if they're just political, they'll probably be gone in court. Don't be afraid, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u91	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u92	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! The aim of the project is to enable citizens to exercise their rights to courts and to protect their lives. The project is obviously related to the Smolensk disaster. From the beginning, we have been in favour of including the will of families as far as possible in the process of investigating the causes of the catastrophe. The question is whether this will be respected. Ladies and gentlemen! Despite spending millions of dollars from the state budget, the establishment of successive committees and subcommittees today we are not closer to explaining the causes of this tragedy, and the wreckage is still in Smolensk. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u93	Please. Minister Michał Wójcik, Deputy Minister of Justice, will answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u94	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a pity that you are trying to involve political elements in the criminal system and that we are talking about very important legislation in a political context. But if it's about politics, you could've done it for eight years... [[But the D.A.'s office was independent.]] ...not just today to ask for a revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure. But you didn't. [[Applause]] Now I will answer in a purely legal context. Art. 209 and Art. 210 simply cannot be amended in this way and we cannot work on your proposal for a very simple reason. This recipe has been in place since the 1960s. [[So?]] Possibility of carrying out this kind of evidence, checking or opening a corpse... There was no such rule in the 1928 code of procedure, that's true, but since the 1960s these rules have been functioning... [[So what?]] ...and never raised any doubts. This country has caused a huge discussion to begin. And now the answer to the question of why you can't do what you're proposing. Because the state is breaking the basic principles on which the criminal procedure operates, the criminal process. This is, for example, the principle of the accuracy of the decision, the principle of the duty of the prosecutor to seek out material truth. I mean, these are the rules. It can't be that someone's making an application and saying, "I don't want an exhumation, and the D.A." That would be an absolute breach. There is no way to challenge any evidence during the criminal trial. [[That's bullshit.]] The D.A. has a duty to seek the truth. The only possible situation would be if the decision closed the way for a judgment. This is the only situation, otherwise it's contra legem and you'll make an absolute breach in the system. You can't do that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u95	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print No 1166, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. Two Members have voted 262 against - 163, with two abstentions. The Sejm has adopted the proposal on the basis of Article. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. We are returning to the review of item 16 of the agenda: Report of the Legislative Commission on the Government draft law on specific rules for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate issued in violation of law. We proceed to the third reading. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1214-A. I ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to present this additional report to the committee. Is this the Member? [[What happened, Mom's break?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour of presenting an additional report to the committee on this matter on behalf of the committee. The Commission met yesterday at a meeting. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft law, the rejection of minority applications. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u97	Thank you. As we have heard, the committee calls for the adoption of the draft law contained in the report no. 1214. The Commission also presents minority proposals as well as an additional report to reject the draft law and the amendment. I would like to inform you that minority proposals from 1 to 13 have been withdrawn. The Commission requests that the proposal to reject the draft law notified at second reading be rejected. The adoption of this proposal will render the remaining proposals futile. Questions are raised by Members. Member Cornelia Wróblewska, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The verification committee is a non-existent body in Polish legislation. It is unconstitutional and inefficiently constructed. You do not count on the opinion of the citizens, the opposition, the experts, or even the Sejm Analysis Office, which issued a negative opinion on this project. Why are you reaching for communist tools to fix the mistakes caused by the Bierut decree? The Commission, according to your project, has no obligation to notify the owners by letter that the proceedings are pending in their case. He can put that information on the BIP website, and nobody reads it. What about older people who don't have access to the Internet? Will you do it behind their backs? Are you going to impose financial penalties on them? It is a giggle of history that in the same way, ladies and gentlemen, on posters posted on the streets of Warsaw, Warsaw was informed that their property would be covered by the decree of Bieruta. Why are you doing this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Like this? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u99	Thank you. Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, this project is indeed a major breach in the legal system that Minister Wójcik was just talking about. He said you weren't creating a breach. You're creating a very big breach here, but I also understand your intentions. You have good intentions, you want to fight evil, only, I think, the method you chose is absurd, because it is completely ineffective. You don't like the courts, you don't like the independent judges, and all the decisions of this committee that you want to set up will go to the courts as a result of her work, to the administrative courts where the proceedings usually last quite long. First there will be a voivodship administrative court and then the Supreme Administrative Court, which is really the decisions that the committee will take, let's assume, after half a year's work, only after the next two years will they be valid. I don't think that's what you meant. You made it up, but you didn't know how to fit it in. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the system of the Republic of Poland. Why do you think this committee will be effective? Because we think she's gonna be completely ineffective. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u101	Thank you. Member Tomasz Romankowski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u102	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We are all, as we are sitting here in this House, hot opponents of theft reprivatization, everything that has been taking place in Poland for 27 years. On the other hand, what is the purpose of setting up a review committee, which is an institution that will issue decisions that are easy to challenge by the judicial authorities? I mean, ladies and gentlemen, why create a flawed law? Why support the criminal community? Let's set up a committee of inquiry. [[Applause]] Let the law enforcement finally take care of the big mob that steals the property of the rightful owners, and finally let's adopt, as the last country of the Eastern Block, a reprivatization bill. [[Applause]] Let's restore property to the rightful owners. What we're doing right now, when we're passing this bill, that's what we're doing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] just breaking the law in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u103	Thank you. Mr Paweł Lisiecki, Club Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u104	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The motion to reject the law in its entirety made by the Civic and Modern Platform clubs is simply curial for me. We are dealing with the biggest scandal in the history of Warsaw self-government: 3 thousand. property returned on the basis of a decision of officials - officials today put before the prosecutor's office for taking decisions under financial incentives, e.g. PLN 2.5 million. Nothing wrong with the actions of its officials was seen by the President of Warsaw, who until August 2016 defended the decisions of the officials as decisions of the government. Last week, she rattled the news that there's a proceeding on the admission by a member of the board of directors of M.S. Warsaw property benefits in the amount of PLN 2.5 million... [[Don't repeat the rumors.]] ...for holding back local plans for the plot in Warsaw, in Saska Kępa. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Isn't it significant, Minister, that this application is being submitted by the Civic Platform Club? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u105	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 150 votes against - 251, 23 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the first amendment to Article. 4 applicants propose, inter alia, that the members of the committee, on the date of appointment, assume the duties of State Secretaries in the Ministry of Justice. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is raised by Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u106	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! The real cause of the wild reprivatization in Warsaw, which affected tens of thousands of tenants, is the lack of a reprivatization bill. So far, despite the 26 years since we regained full freedom, we have not passed such a law. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland has not passed such a law. The verification committee you are proposing is not a cure for this evil either. She's going to replace the courts, the administration, and the D.A.'s office. In this amendment it turns out that all its members will be part of the strict management of the Ministry of Justice as State Secretaries. It's another very customary solution. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let me remind you that the remuneration of the Secretarys of State exceeds 10,000. zł, but this will not be accompanied by any requirements, such as legal education. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u107	Please. Mr Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I find it despicable that Mr Sejm of the Republic repeats the statements which have been brought to the public by the person already convicted of the discourses, he repeats them here from the Seym Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, the 1st amendment proposes that the composition of this committee should be made up of State Secretaries in the Ministry of Justice, which will thus have 10 more secretaries than any other resort. They will make judicial decisions, but they will not be required to have legal training. It is not necessary, it does not need to have any judicial application made, any judicial practice. Moreover, this committee, I ask you, will not help anything, is to stop various decisions that may seem unfair, but are lawful, because this committee does not change the way in which new proposals are dealt with, which will be 3 000. to consider, because you have rejected the Civic Platform project, which would ultimately enable it to be sorted out. [[♪ The bell ♪]] according to the current state of affairs. This committee will act in a manner which is insulting to the independence of the courts and the independence of the judge. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u109	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 248 against 156, with 22 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 5 applicants propose to amend the rules on the remuneration of committee members and on the payment of their allowances. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. 253 voted against - 147, 6 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose to add, first, Article. 5a providing that the chairman and the members of the committee cannot be held liable for their activities falling within the scope of their duties in committee and, secondly, Article. 5b providing that the chairman and the members of the committee shall make a statement concerning claims for Warsaw real estate. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is raised by Danuta Pietraszewska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u110	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This is an irresponsible amendment to liability or irresponsibleness. Amendment 3 gives special immunity to the chairman and the members of the committee under which they cannot be held liable for their activities within the scope of their duties in committee. If this committee replaces the courts, the prosecutors' office, the administration, if this committee grants and determines the amount of compensation and if it makes a mistake, who will take responsibility for the damages it will give to those who ask for it? I'd like to see the Minister [[♪ The bell ♪]] He answered the question: Will it be the Treasury or any other institution? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[If Kaczyński gets convicted, who's gonna punish them?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u111	The Minister of Justice will address all comments at the end of the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 14 Members abstained from voting 261 against - 153. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 16 applicants propose that the requested party be required to appear at the hearing regardless of the place of residence and to increase the penalties for failure to comply with the committee's request. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, it can be assumed that many witnesses in these cases will come from Warsaw, but there will also be witnesses from outside Warsaw, there will be older people, there will be people from outside Poland. How do you imagine they're being dragged into the country? Will you pay? Is this committee gonna pay for bringing these people in? Will she be able to withdraw from downloading such witnesses? Why are such high penalties foreseen here for failure to appear before this committee? Maybe you can explain what the mode of action will be in all those matters that will concern people from outside Warsaw, even from abroad. And one more thing I'd like to add here. Ladies and gentlemen, this committee's bringing the case to a halt the work of normal courts, qualified courts. Isn't this some sort of degradation of the judicial system by setting up an incompetent committee to deal with legal matters and keep all these cases in courts at the same time, suspending them? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u113	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. A total of 16 Members abstained from voting 262 against 149. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 17 applicants propose that the person called as a witness or expert should be required to appear wherever he resides and to increase the penalties for failure to comply with the committee's request. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Paweł Lisiecki, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u114	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! A moment ago, a Member from the Civic Platform asked to call witnesses. Let me just remind you that the decisions of the m.s. officials. Warsaw was issued for people who would be over 140 years old today. Therefore, I see no reason for the committee today not to be able to call witnesses before its face, not on the basis of dealing with the matter of the curator. [[The dead...]] On the other hand, this amendment aims to increase the effectiveness of the committee. This committee is thanks to the officials of the M.S. Warsaw will have its hands full. Bringing in some of these officials probably won't be a problem, because it's easy for the detectives to get in front of the committee, [[Applause]] But there are also those who will probably avoid it. Therefore, such persons should be effectively brought before the committee. Minister, do you foresee any additional measures to ensure that people who do not appear before the committee? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u115	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 266 voted against - 147, with 13 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 19 and 8th amendment to Article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 applicants propose that the provisions of the Enforcement Act in the administration should also be applied to safeguard the claims laid down in those provisions. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 6 and 8, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 382 against - 35, 9 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 7th amendment to the article. 19 the applicant in the new wording of paragraph. 1 propose that the alert provided for in this provision exclude the guarantee of the faith of the public eternal books. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Paweł Lisiecki, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u116	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In the name of the law tens of thousands of people were deprived of the right to rent premises in Warsaw. It comes to curiosities, when the renewed prosecutors brings the traffickers before the court for the illegal takeover of the property, and these defendants are still chasing tenants from these illegally seized buildings and even sending bailiffs to these people because the court rejects the motion to suspend the bailiff's actions. Minister, will this bill stop this kind of procedure when a thief uses state authorities to prosecute his victims? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u117	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. There were 262 votes against and 148 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 14th minority proposal to Article. 28 applicants shall propose that paragraph be deleted. 2 providing that, in certain cases, the committee may adopt a decision repealing the reprivatisation decision also prior to the decision of the court or other authority to establish that the evidence has been falsified or that the offence has been committed. The question is asked by Paweł Lisiecki, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u118	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Let me remind you how thousands of people living in returned buildings were determined. The official under the authority of the President of Warsaw issued a decision to transfer the building with the tenants. He made a decision. This official did not wait for the judgment of the court on the misrepresentation of the will, did not wait for what the court would say about the application or the notification of the tenants of the suspicion of the crime, handed over the building. The tenants weren't There's even a side. And the president of Warsaw, the vice president of Warsaw, boasted on Twitter that m.st. Although Warsaw makes a decision, it is also not a party to this proceeding and therefore has nothing to do with it. Minister, how much longer is this going to take place? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u119	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th minority proposal will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 402 Members voted. 82 Members voted against - 309, 11 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 9th amendment to the article. 32 applicants propose editorial changes. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Boris Budka, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u120	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Dear Prime Minister, I have a question for the Prime Minister. Is the Prime Minister aware of what has now been voted by the Members of the Law and Justice, and what will happen if this law is passed? Contrary to the law on departments, contrary to the rules in force in the government administration of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, he will be appointed by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Moreover, according to the Act, the Minister directs the Ministry through the Secretary of State, one Secretary. Right now, there are two State Secretarys at the Ministry of Justice, let's make a deal, one said you're a proxy. If this law passes, contrary to the Act on the Departments of the Sejm of the Republic, even a few additional secretaries of state may be appointed against the Prime Minister of the Republic. [[Ten will be.]] This is completely absurd. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Prime Minister, please respond until this bullshit is passed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u121	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. There were 373 Members voted against - 43, with 10 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Before voting on the entire bill, Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club, will ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u122	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister of Justice! I would like to ask Members of the Law and Justice, but not those of the Virtue who are not listening to me, but those of the others. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know if you know that right now we are changing the system of the Republic of Poland. We change the regime of the Republic described in the Constitution, based on the values of democracy, the values of the individual, based on freedom, and based also on the three divisions of power... [[And what did it do?]] ...for legislative, executive and judicial power. The wild committee, the wild committee of what, ladies and gentlemen, is changing this system. [[Applause]] Trying to solve wild, certainly wild and necessary to solve, to explain and to judge reprivatization in Warsaw, he uses the wrong law. Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that in the jungle of the laws that you are adopting, you may escape the fact, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That you're making the choice of jungle law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u123	Mr Bartosz Józwiak, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u124	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Minister! We have been leaning down on this project for a very long time, we have studied its validity for a very long time, and unfortunately it is difficult for us to accept the creation of such a creation, which is very questionable legally. I am the last person, as I'm sure some of you know, who would be against reprivatization because I'm the first person to talk about reprivatization in this Sejm in this term of office at all. But unfortunately, you're trying to break down an open door, creating a strange creation. We asked for a committee of inquiry to deal with reprivatization, wild reprivatization throughout the country. We asked and called for work to be started on the reprivatization bill, and there is no response. Unfortunately, this committee will not solve any problem, and perhaps it will cut the whole problem only on the issue of Warsaw. This is very dangerous and very undesirable, because it can definitely close our talks about reprivatization. Unfortunately, it is very difficult for us to support such a project, which is why I, with a clear conscience, say that I cannot support it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u125	Thank you. Mr Marcin Kierwiński, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u126	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! This project is a clear attempt to move away from the three divisions of power. It's a political attempt to establish a kind of folk court... [[But it's already been done.]] ...the party's verification authority. At the same time, as you push this project with your knee, without looking at the opinions of lawyers, at the opinions of constitutionalists, you want to reject the project that comprehensively solves the problems of reprivatization in Warsaw. You want to reject this project, which really solves the problems that Warsaw has been fighting for 26 years. The question is very simple, and that is the question to President Kaczyński. Mr President, in your last term of office, the party did not have the courage to support a small reprivatisation bill. In this term of office, he does not want to support a large reprivatization bill. Why are you defending Bierut's decree? Why do you make the Bieruta decree remain in force all the time? Why do you care so much about the reprivatization of Warsaw that this muddy water lasts all the time? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because what you're doing isn't solving problems all the time. This law does not solve any problem related to Bierut's decree. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u127	Member Paweł Lisiecki, Law and Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u128	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would just like to remind you: in the First Republic there was such a movement of execution of goods, where the average nobles received the goods unduly taken by the rulers. This committee has the same purpose. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Those who have unlawfully taken possession of public property should return it. This bill brings hope to thousands of inhabitants of the capital thrown out of their homes, ruined by bailiffs working at the request of criminals, waiting not for the rule of law, but for justice, because in the case of the Warsaw reprivatization scandal we had president officials who may have acted law-abidingly, but unfortunately unfairly. Minister, is this bill gonna make things right for many people in the capital? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u129	Thank you. [[It's just a political show that's gonna work.]] At the moment, Deputy Minister of Justice Patrick Jak will speak. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u130	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Seym! At first, I will respond to those allegations which you have consistently, for many months, of a legal nature, against this committee. Point 1, which still appears, indicates negative opinions of various institutions and different legal authorities. It's a pity that you do it in such a random way, and you only pull out those opinions or parts of those opinions that suit you. In order not to be literal, I would like to remind the High Sejm that, for example. After all, a long way from us, Professor Łętowska in the media said that such a committee is in the Polish legal order. We have the opinion of Prof. Grabowska, also far from us, who writes so about the committee after the review of this law, allow me to read, quote: Cases in which the legislator entrusts powers to settle damages caused by acts of public authority, not by courts, but by administrative authorities, have been known for a long time in Polish legislation. Here are the many cases that I referred to you in the Parliamentary Committees. And Mrs. Prof. Grabowska continues: In summary, it must be stated that the scale of pathological phenomena associated with the process of the so-called process has been revealed recently. The wild reprivatisation of Warsaw real estate shows that there is a need for a rapid response by the state to numerous cases of violation or circumvention by many beneficiaries of this reprivatisation, which sometimes has a dramatic even negative impact on existing users of these properties, e.g. An eviction on the street. Since it turned out that the courts and prosecutors were not able to effectively and efficiently eliminate the negative effects of wild reprivatisation from the legal order, nor to provide the victims with adequate redress, the draft way of verifying the correctness of decisions made in this respect by the local authorities is proposed. Warsaw in the administrative procedure may prove to be the only appropriate way. High Seym! It is repeatedly alleged that the review committee will fall under the jurisdiction of the courts. The problem is that when we say: show you specifically where this committee will be in the jurisdiction of the courts, it is always a silence or you give one example that it will be able to make entries in the eternal books. High Seym! As regards entries in perpetual books, the right to similar entries has, for example, the right to such entries. Presidents of the tax offices. Then why should the public administration, the central public administration which we propose to establish, not have the powers of the lower authorities? This is ridiculous. In addition, you have repeatedly raised the argument: after all, the prosecutor's office works, after all, the prosecutor's office is from the point of view of explaining such matters. Yes, as you can see, the D.A.'s office has finally started working on this case. It's not like it was before. Here is a note to Members of the Civic Platform, during which everything was buried under the rug on reprivatization. Suddenly it turns out that the state can act. But after all, the High Sejm, the D.A.'s office can bring and convict those who were responsible for this, show who was guilty, and that's what she started doing effectively right now. [[Don't lift a finger at me.]] But, High Seym, the Warsawers expect more. Apart from indicating who is guilty, Warsawers expect one more thing: a change of administrative decision. Your Sejm, the D.A.'s office doesn't have the powers you know very well. Therefore, a broad action is needed, two-track, Polish state. Finally, you are accusing that a committee of inquiry would be better in this regard. The High Sejm, the committee of inquiry, is indeed an institution known in the Polish Parliament, has once proved itself, failed once, but what is most important in all this - the committee of inquiry after many years usually ends its work with a report. I would like to tell you that the Warsawers no longer expect a report today. They expect a change of administrative decision, they expect the estate to return to where it belongs. [[Applause]] Finally, you're using the argument that we give these people special powers, such as special status, rank or immunity, and you're suggesting that this is some unique legal structure that hasn't happened so far. What I'm trying to say is, it's nothing. Just analyze the Polish legal order to see that similar immunitys enjoy e.g. Patent spokesperson, President of the Institute of National Remembrance, General Data Protection Officer or Child Rights Ombudsman. If we want the members of the committee to feel independently when it is known that the pressure before the decision is taken will be enormous, then it is our job to make the members of this committee... [[They were unpunished.]] ...to the greatest degree of independence if I can use that word. You yourself have repeatedly pointed out this during the work of this committee. Therefore, this argument is also missing. The High Sejm, as I listen to all these accusations that are made by the opposition, I cannot get any impression other than that the true intention is something else, namely torpedoing the strengthening of the Polish state. A Polish country that screams that it doesn't want to be defenseless anymore. I would like to say, High Sejm, that very often in the case of reprivatization, such wording is used, that this is the best example that the Polish state was theoretical. And I want to tell you that's not true. It's much worse. [[Like a wealth commission...]] In this case the Polish state was humiliated. Humiliated. The Polish state is on its knees. Your Majesty, our job is to... [[Get off your knees.]] ...it's to get you up off your knees in this area. Therefore, if you are accusing today that the committee will have broad powers to act quickly, I believe that this is its greatest asset. It is precisely because the Polish state cannot lose to a group of smart-ass criminals. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Don't yell.]] I also ask you, High Sejm, to look at this problem from a slightly different perspective. Perhaps the perspective of ski resorts or the Portuguese perspective is slightly different than the perspective of ordinary Warsaw, but note - thousands of families thrown on the pavement or thrown into the cellars. They live today only one hope - that the state will reach out to them as soon as possible. They don't have time to wait anymore. They say: We are here hoping that the Polish state will rise and win with an organized crime group. [[Applause]] And finally I want to say, High Sejm, that in order to rebuild the Polish state, you should be most concerned. You know why? Because you're part of it. You're the representatives of these people. Those people who were thrown into the basement with their families day after day and waited and cried out. What? Justice. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[What about you guys?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u131	We proceed to the vote on the whole draft bill... [[With a formal motion, Mr. Marshal?]] With a proposal... [[With a formal application.]] [[Voices from the Chamber: Votes...]] [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr Paweł Pudłowski with a formal proposal. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u132	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you very much. I would like to make a formal request, asking for a 10 minute break, so that you can discuss this matter again within the Law and Justice. This picturesque painting, which you presented to Minister Jak, is really coming into our hearts, including our hearts. We are aware that there have been many irregularities. We were the first to raise this problem in August last year. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And we started... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] Don't laugh, that's the truth. We have launched a public debate on this. But we are really dealing with the possibility of setting up a special committee, which, you know, is unconstitutional because the only legal opinion that is available to us and is on the sejm pages is the opinion of BAS and it definitely states that it is an unconstitutional body. We don't have to go that way. You have our full support for setting up a committee of inquiry, our full support for the proper functioning of the prosecution and judges. If there are judges... Because it's also an argument that came up in committee -- that there are judges that you don't trust, and there are judges involved in these cases. If they are, you know what to do with them. But you can't change the whole system of the Polish system in the name of doing it quickly, because if that were the case, the best way to do justice would be to remove the gun and shoot the culprit. We have left this way of making law. That's why we have a trio system, which is why we have judges. Therefore, once again, I encourage you to take a short break. If you decide otherwise, I will have a clear conscience that I have done everything in my power to convince you of another idea. Thank you very much. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u133	Minister Patrick Jak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u134	Dear Marshal, High Seym! I'd like to file a counterclaim and say yes. Today you say, "Leave this case, let the courts explain this matter." Your Sejm, none of us would have had to handle this case if it weren't for the courts. I would like to say that there would be no reprivatization scandal if the Polish courts did not establish curators for 140-year-olds. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] Finally, I would like to say that the Polish courts would now like to judge the issue of reprivatization, but, High Sejm, you cannot be a judge in your own case. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u135	There's a request for a break and a vote against it. In that case, I shall formally submit this request for a break to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a 10-minute recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 163 votes against - 252, 8 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We therefore proceed to vote on the whole of the bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1214, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. The vote was 252 against - 144, 25 Members abstained. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm has passed a law on special rules for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law. We return to the examination of item 22 of the agenda: the report by the Extraordinary Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Penal Code and certain other laws. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On this item, we will vote on the proposal to reject the Senate amendment. The question is... I will read the text of the amendment before the vote. In the amendment to the article. 237 § 3 of the Code of Criminal Procedure The Senate proposes a different wording of paragraphs 16b to 16d. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is raised by Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! This amendment concerns the limitation of the scope of eavesdropping that can be applied in criminal cases concerning VAT fraud and VAT fraud. Well, I have a question for the Prime Minister about the effectiveness of the wiretap, which is to increase penalties to 25 years. As we know, last year's VAT revenues were lower by half than those planned, which was even lower than the rate of GDP growth. So it can be said that sealing has weakened because the increase in VAT revenues was slower than GDP growth. For this year, you plan to increase your VAT revenue by nearly 14%. It seems completely unrealistic. Does the Prime Minister really believe that up to 25 years in prison and wiretapping will solve the problem of VAT sealing and indeed [[♪ The bell ♪]] this year's revenue will rise by as much as 14% ? [[Applause]] [[They sealed it up so much that the hole got bigger.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u137	Thank you very much. The Deputy Minister of Justice Michał Wójcik is authorised by the government to speak on this matter. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u138	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I already told this speaker once that we are dealing with a very serious crime. Forty-60 billion zlotys a year are sucked out of our budget. We're just being robbed. By who? We've had a chance to see it lately. [[Communists and thieves.]] The prosecution has detained and arrested further persons - Słowik, Parasol, Vanka, 14 persons - in proceedings which are conducted by the Regional Public Prosecutor's Office in Szczecin. In turn a few days ago another organized criminal group - the 700 million zlotys taken out of the budget, is about VAT. Ladies and gentlemen, how are we supposed to work organized criminal groups, often international? How are we supposed to break up gangs that deal with tax carousels? I mean, wiretaps. [[Applause]] Therefore, a proposal has been made to extend the catalogue of process bugs, but also non-process bugs, to various types of activities. However, in this amendment, we propose to agree to the position of the Senate. We've shut down criminal offences or disciplinary proceedings, but anyone who deals with this issue knows very well that when we're dealing with a tax merry-go-rounder, someone runs this operation, someone's a pillar, someone's got a fictional company, someone's taking on expertise, someone's giving false testimony. Ladies and gentlemen, anyone who's been doing this knows that. Therefore, wiretapping is a very important instrument. I would like to say that with regard to this law, which actually provides for 25 years of imprisonment in the case of the most serious crimes, I am convinced that in 12 months when we assess whether more money is left in the VAT budget, the Law and Justice will be right in this regard. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u139	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting the amendment will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. The absolute majority is 207. Four Members voted against - 408, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We return to the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Report of the Social Policy Committee and the Family on the draft law amending the Law on social security benefits in the event of illness and maternity. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1275. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no.1275, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. The vote was 407, against - 1, no one abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the act on social security benefits in the event of illness and maternity. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (print No 1289). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on these proposals? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print no.1289, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 399 Members voted. 379 voted against - 12, 8 Members abstained. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm ordering a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 mins 31 hours 13 min 34]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u140	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Information for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period July-December 2016 (Slovakia Presidency in the Council of the European Union) (print No 1215), together with the position of the European Union Commission (print No 1219). Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Konrad Szymański, to present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For the third time, I am pleased to present to you information about the work of the European Union, with particular emphasis on Poland's role in the work of the European Union during the Slovak Presidency this time. A very detailed register of cases, processes, decisions you have in the information prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I would like to draw your attention to those issues which we believe are crucial for political interests, security, and finally for the economic interests of Poland in the European Union. Slovakia has, to a large extent, chosen, under the influence of external circumstances, the key elements of the EU's rapid process agenda. These are primarily issues related to regulatory order, economic governance in the European Union, the future of the common market, the future of migration policy, which today has extremely strong baggage, political cargo. During these six months, issues related to the European Union's global role have also played a rather important, crucial role. As usual, in such cases, in addition to the planned agenda, meticulously, carefully planned agenda tasks, external circumstances also added their share. I am referring, above all, to the announcement of the outcome of the referendum on the UK staying in the European Union. The Slovak Presidency was suddenly confronted with an urgent situation, with an urgent need to shape the position of the other EU-27 members, the Heads of Government, in view of the negative outcome of the referendum. This was important because from the very beginning, in the deepest interest of the European Union, also in the deepest Polish interest, it was important that the European Union should be able to convey a constructive, clear message in connection with this bad outcome of the referendum, to define the framework for its own political unity and to present institutional solutions for the divorce negotiation process itself, as well as the negotiations that will have to take place over the future order, the future rules to govern economic and political relations between the European Union and the United Kingdom, when the United Kingdom will no longer be a member of the European Union. The Slovak Presidency has done its best. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal!]] The European Union has adopted its position very quickly... The Heads of Government of the EU-27 very quickly adopted a position on the rules, a position in line with Polish expectations that, once Britain leaves the European Union, we expect as close as possible to economic and political relations. At the same time, it has been very strongly pointed out that there is no willingness in the European Union to open up, decompose the common market to offer over-privileged relations between the United Kingdom and the internal market or with the European Union, with all the enormous political sympathy, particularly from Warsaw, towards the government in London. It was a clear position that was very well understood by the London side. As a result, we had a relatively recent speech by Prime Minister May, who made it clear that the United Kingdom cannot find itself sufficiently comfortable in the architecture of the common market in view of the referendum. That's a good diagnosis. The European Union, the EU-27, will not be ready in the future to offer conditions that would actually have devastating consequences for the future of the Union itself. The creation of a cooperation model, which would assume the possibility of selecting only beneficial elements of the common market, would obviously only accelerate internal cracks or internal decomposing processes of the common market in the Union itself. That would be bad news for the Union itself after the UK left. This would also be bad news for those third countries that have decided to have a proper, proportionate relationship with the Union. I mean Switzerland or Norway. We have institutionally decided that due to the extremely political importance of the UK's exit from the European Union, this process should be subject to a certain control, a guardianship, political care by the European Council, i.e. by the Heads of Government. We would like any possible side effects, the negative side effects of a political or economic nature to be avoided, so that there is no situation in which, due to excessive political emotions or other interests, Britain, leaving the Union, is unduly punished. The United Kingdom should be treated fairly so that our common interests, which will not cease when the United Kingdom leaves the Union, can continue to be protected, can continue to be pursued. These are not only interests in the protection of acquired rights of EU-27 citizens, especially Poles, but also those of a budgetary nature. The UK has far-reaching financial commitments towards the budget of the European Union, the budget that it is implementing, supports many projects, including in Poland. These are the interests of maintaining an appropriate, ambitious level of free trade between the European Union and the United Kingdom. These are, in the end, the urgent need for such a security policy, a foreign policy which would still entail open, far-reaching, mutually meaningful cooperation between the EU-27 and the United Kingdom. The institutional side of these negotiations is so important that we must remember that soon, I think, within a month, two, we will sit down with the administration of a unitary state. On the other hand, the Union will be composed of 27 political centres, creating potential risks to the effectiveness of the Union's negotiating strategy towards the UK. It is in the best interest of Poland that these negotiations should take place in a factual manner so that we are able to protect our national and not just our EU interests in this process. Therefore, both matters, general principles, political principles, but also institutional rules, are so important. Turning to this regular part of the EU agenda, which was carried out during the Slovak Presidency, I would like to draw attention to several initiatives, important issues of nature, in general, economic. Firstly, we have reached a compromise on the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework. This discussion was going on in a politically tense atmosphere. Some Member States would like the mid-term review of the multiannual framework to be an opportunity for political rematches on various other issues. That's not what happened. Poland has ensured that all new objectives, objective new needs of the European Union, are financed to a greater extent, but not at the expense of those financial lines which are important from the Polish point of view - agriculture and cohesion. Poland has ensured that there is no excessive accumulation of payments at the end of the financial perspective, which could result in difficulties in paying out money to Polish beneficiaries as well. This compromise is tight, albeit not entirely accepted. Given the internal situation in Italy, it will probably be politically finalized in the coming weeks. The second important issue was the extension of the mandate of the European Fund for Strategic Investments. At first, I admit, I belonged to those people who were skeptical about this idea, because I saw how dramatically bad the Polish results were when it comes to using this instrument. We had only one project for very many months, only one project successfully submitted to this new financing instrument. The Ministry of Development's efforts resulted in a sudden opening, radical growth, not only in terms of the financial volume of these proposals, but also in terms of the number of these proposals, of course. This is very good news and this was the reason why we decided to extend the mandate of the financial instrument and to increase the scale of the financial instrument. With regard to economic issues, the single market agenda has played a very important role during these six months. By the way, if there is any political conclusion of a more general nature around it, I would say that this is one of the most underestimated problems of the coming months and years which may affect the process of European integration. The rise in protectionist sentiments in individual Member States already translates into excessive tolerance for protectionism in the European Commission itself. This is an extremely serious problem, because this concerns those parts of the common market where entrepreneurs, service providers, employees, companies from our part of Europe, including Poland in particular, are best placed. This is a very serious problem because we perceive the European Commission's actions so far not only as being overly tolerant of protectionism, which has been politically active in many Western European countries. We believe that the European Commission should definitely be more active in defending the common market and activating its proper Treaty role on a matter in which it truly has obligations of a treaty nature, on a matter that is truly sensitive to the future of the common market. But there are also positive aspects. I will not mention the European Service Charter, which has only been colored recently. First of all, I would like to draw attention to a very energetic debate on the future of the digital market. The Minister of Digitisation, as well as the Polish Prime Minister, were the main representatives of those countries that organised the emphasis on the European Commission, on the European Council, in order not only to speed up work to make it not only more ambitious, but also to draw attention to the key systemic nature of the free movement of data in the new built digital market architecture. Among these issues, which are a clear, very clear manifestation of protectionism, is, of course, the Posting of Workers Directive. Today we know that this is also a road package, that it is quite vague, but worryingly promising work on the European Pillar of Social Affairs. However, as far as legislative issues are concerned, the Posting of Workers Directive is certainly an alarming signal that protectionism is not only a problem for countries, capitals today, but it is also a problem for Brussels. The proposed measures in this directive, in addition to the very noble and shared motivations of the Polish government in the field of labour protection, the protection of workers' social rights - we have no doubt that workers' rights should be protected - the promised proposals in their effects, and perhaps even intentions, lead to a restriction of competition in the Community market in the field of labour supply, in particular in the transport market. Unfortunately, these good intentions translate into solutions, the only effect of which will simply restrict competition, simply closing the market to the most active and often dominant operators in certain services sectors. A lot was happening in the energy market or in the Energy Union. We have reached a compromise on a new, far more ambitious decision regulating transparency and the exchange of information on energy contracts, in particular on gas and oil. That's good news. We still have an unresolved dispute as far as we can ambitiously approach the new regulations on security of gas supply. We still see the huge hesitation, the reluctance of the Member States, especially those whose supply situation is much more comfortable, for purely political reasons, not of an economic nature, not of an infrastructure nature, but for purely political reasons, we see the hesitation of some countries in order to create mechanisms of real energy solidarity in the Union, i.e. mechanisms that would build not so much some kind of charity, security for this country or another country - Poland is more and more secure in this matter - but the resilience of the market. This case does not necessarily have to be as political as it is often perceived in Poland. The mechanisms for solidarity of supply, security of gas supply are simply building market resilience, which is really building bargaining power, the trade power of the European Union, Europe towards the most common, in the vast majority of cases, suppliers outside the European Union, and, moreover, suppliers who often do not hide their political intentions in terms of shaping trade relations with the European Union as regards raw materials. A very bad event was the notification in this mode and in this shape so-called. the winter package. From the beginning Poland was interested in developing the new architecture of the electricity market. In this case, however, we are dealing with the extremely non-transparency of the European Commission, which in the last phase without proper consultation introduced into this package records addressed in fact to one country, addressed in fact to Poland, which, if they were adopted, and I am convinced that it would not be so easy, would cause that the planned and well-known European Commission power market support mechanisms would be impossible to use in the case of the main raw material, the energy medium available in Poland, i.e. in the case of coal, even if we were talking about the most modern technologies. This is a politically very bad act. This is not a technical issue, and this was the reason why Prime Minister Beata Szydło, at the December European Council, took this issue as an issue which needs to be discussed at the level of Heads of Government, must be subject to a much more strategic assessment of nature. A new approach to immigration policy was a very important part of the work of the Slovak Presidency for obvious reasons. Here too, we have started with the unfortunate decisions of the Council of the European Union, even more unhappily initiatives of the European Commission, which, apart from the fact that they have not resolved in any way any aspect of the immigration crisis, have yet to introduce a huge level of political tension within the European Union, tensions which, let's face it, have not passed away, have weakened, but have not passed. The Slovak Presidency, with a large load of common sense and, I believe, in the sense of responsibility for the whole of the Union and not for the interests of one or another country, has proposed corrective solutions, in fact new solutions in this area, without denying the same as Poland's responsibility for the migration crisis. At no time have we denied that the migration crisis, which destabilizes the Southern states and brings very specific political consequences in the European Union, should be overcome by common forces. We have never turned our backs on this matter, and therefore we do not wish anyone in Europe to say to Warsaw that they behave unsolidarly. We have launched much more humanitarian measures, we have opened the door to regulatory changes, we have also opened up changes in the European Border Guard system, we have supported ambitious and costly agreements with third countries, we are open - the last summit in Malta has proved this - the reasonable development of mechanisms for responding to the migration crisis, mechanisms for restoring control at the external borders of the European Union. In fact, however, we are not inclined to support any form of transnational management of migration or refugee movements, not only because we believe that this issue should be a matter of national competence so that citizens feel safe and have a sense of influence over what is happening with their borders and their societies, but also because these are mechanisms that do not have any effect, do not bring any relief, do not solve any problem. They have, on the other hand, brought quite a lot of political problems, which are probably not needed by the Union today, given that the Union is not in the best condition today and it would be good to reduce the level of political tension. Poland is ready to reduce the level of political tension in the European Union, but not at all costs. We're ready to make reasonable compromises. The work of the Slovak Presidency was an attempt to find reasonable compromises, i.e. to create a common architecture of responsibility for migratory or refugee crises which would give each Member State the guarantee of controlling this process and controlling the degree of responsibility - not at the cost of efficiency, not at the cost of efficiency. At the same time, we have taken action that has brought about a real change at the external border, which, of course, is the most spectacular manifestation of which is the Union-Turkey agreement, which has caused more than 90% of the uncontrolled migration movement at the external border, which has caused the problem of the Aegean route to be seen as being closed down today. I don't want to say closed because everything can happen and we need to be vigilant, but this is an example of a real solution to the problem. I hope that similar effective action will be taken on the basis of the agreement we have reached on Libya. I mentioned that Poland was not only politically interested, but also directly involved in bringing solidarity to third countries in the face of a crisis which we do not have direct consequences in Poland. This is also a manifestation of the unselfishness of Poland, a manifestation of true solidarity between Poland and countries that are directly affected by the migration crisis. We operate in circumstances that are truly selfless, because none of the aspects of the uncontrolled migration movement reaches Poland and, hopefully, it will not reach Poland. The last aspect worth paying attention to is the so-called. the global role of the European Union. Of course, this was not the best time to play some overly spectacular global role by the European Union. The evidence that we still have this problem is that we are unable to accept conclusions on its extension. Let us be honest, real, politically imaginable enlargements concern the countries of the Western Balkans. These are not groundbreaking things from a geopolitical point of view, groundbreaking things from the point of view of the Union's construction. However, today the European Union has lost its ability to take responsibility for its neighbourhood, whether by means of neighbourhood policy instruments, whether through an instrument, so far highly praised, also within the Union itself, namely an instrument of accession policy. It was a very bad day for subjectivity, for the importance of the European Union in the world - the day when it turned out that we were not able to agree on common conclusions on this matter. Of course, Poland has always been on the side of those who said that we cannot send such a signal that we cannot limit our ambition to influence the outside world. This was the reason why we have undertaken - in particular with Denmark, but today it is a much broader initiative - to work on revitalising the European Neighbourhood Policy. There are different views of it, there are very different needs. I will not develop this because it is difficult to call it a key element of this agenda, but a lot has happened on this issue. Very serious trials have been initiated in this case. I hope that they will bring us such an effect that we will be able to think a little more calmly about our nearest neighbourhood, both south and east, which, of course, is crucial from a Polish point of view. At a time when Slovakia was leading the work of the European Union, there was also a kind of compromise on, at least a partial ratification of the trade agreement with Canada. Thanks to Poland and Germany - I think that these two capitals, Berlin and Warsaw, were the most involved here, interested - it was possible to introduce provisions, which will also give the Polish parliament the right to evaluate the practice of applying this agreement. Over the next year, perhaps 2 years, the practice of applying this agreement should bring more facts, more details to assess how free trade in this form can affect the economic situation of Europe and Canada. One thing is certain, Poland stood clearly in the position that we cannot release from the hands of our ability to regulate standards, to regulate what is possible on the Community market. I have not met, to be honest, among the 28 countries, even among those most involved in opening up the agenda for free trade, countries that would like to limit Europe's ability to develop rules on the European market. The practice will show whether the concerns that - sometimes rightly, sometimes less rightly - have also been formulated in this Parliament will be confirmed. If they confirm, you will have the full right to stop this process. I think this is an important point because at the very beginning of the process inherited from our predecessors this control element was missing there. To conclude, I think that these 6 months again - I do not know whether it is effective enough for this House, but I think it is very effective for very many observers and participants of this process - that Poland is ready to make very constructive compromises at European Union level on every important issue. There's only one evaluation criterion we're not gonna give up on. It is a Polish economic, political and security interest. I'm pretty sure it's 95%. accidents are relatively easy to find such a compromise if we assume that we have to define on the basis of consensus the objectives to which the Union is to devote, reject the objectives which the Union should not devote itself to, as well as select measures, instruments that are acceptable to each Member State, small and large. I think it's a pretty clear proposal. She's getting better and better understood, I guess. I think that she can help not only Poland, because Poland will manage, but she can help the European Union to regain a certain, maybe slightly higher level of political unity than today, but also a level of political efficiency. Political conflicts that cause certain decision-making processes to be frozen, precisely because of the monthly and sometimes long-term political conflicts, do not serve the credibility of the European Union well. That is why we will insist that all the partners in the European Union take into account this one simple principle each time: to choose the objectives for which we agree and the instruments that we are able to use in agreement. The most neglected element that I would like to draw your attention to, because I am convinced that we should pay much more attention to this issue, is the future of the common market. Not only will this Presidency, but also the next months will show us that there is a need for offensive on this issue, in particular in view of the prospect of leaving the European Union of Great Britain, a country that was our closest ally on the principles of common sense, in terms of what is really working in the Union, namely the common market. We need to think very intensively about how to bring together the ranks, how to consolidate countries that are genuinely interested in ensuring that the common market survives this turmoil and survives the crisis. In this light, I suggest you look at recent international meetings, including in Warsaw. It is not a coincidence that, in addition to the visit that has focused the greatest attention of the media, the commentators, as well as the states, we place a great deal of emphasis on consultation with the Netherlands and Ireland, because we see very important partners in these two countries in restoring balance in the debate on the common market in view of the UK's exit from the European Union. If we cannot restore this balance, we cannot resist protectionist tendencies, the European Union may be in a situation much more difficult, much more serious in a few months' time than it looks today. I ask you very much to accept this information and encourage you to have a meaningful discussion about what can also connect us in Polish European policy, because I am convinced that such matters are quite much, that very often rhetoric is a burden at least on this image, the image of Polish European policy, remembering that any extension of the consensus on European policy is a strengthening of the Polish state. This is not a necessary condition. The Polish State will manage without consensus on European policy. I think that there is no doubt that Poland is one of those countries that has the privilege of being a stable, predictable and pro-European state, but it would be better to strengthen European policy by clearly extending the consensus on this matter, because I am convinced that among the objectives I have mentioned, it is very difficult to find any single goal that should not be supported by every Polish political force. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u142	Thank you, Minister. I'm ordering a 20-minute recess... [[Voices from the hall: Oh!]] ...in view of the meeting of the Sejm Bureau. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 minutes 02 hours 14 min 20]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 24 of the agenda. I would like to ask Mrs Izabela Kloc to speak in order to present the reasons for the draft resolution. Please, Mrs Isabella Kloc.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u143	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I am very pleased to be able to present a report for the third time on behalf of the Committee on European Union Affairs and present a draft resolution of the Sejm on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in July-December 2016. The Presidency of the Council of the European Union then covered Slovakia. Information from the Council of Ministers on Poland's activities during the Slovak Presidency was adopted by the Committee for European Affairs on 10 January this year, and on 13 January it was forwarded to the High House. This rapid transmission of information by the government to the Sejm allows us, in Parliament, and specifically in the European Union's Committee on Affairs, to discuss the events of the Presidency immediately after its completion. Government information has been prepared in cooperation with all ministries and central offices, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for its presentation. It is already the 26th half-yearly report of the Council of Ministers for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland from the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union during the successive periods of the presidency. The European Union Affairs Commission considered the information provided in print 1215 at the 105th meeting of the committee on 25 January 2017. The information on behalf of the Council of Ministers was presented by Mr Konrad Szymański, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Minister presented the progress and achievements of the Slovak Presidency through its priorities and key issues from Poland's point of view. The Slovak Presidency focused on the following issues: a strong economic Europe, a modern single market, a sustainable migration and asylum policy, a global commitment of Europe. Slovakia took the lead just after the referendum in the UK, which is why Brexit was another, unplanned, but very important, element of this Presidency. During this Presidency, work was very well done to establish the rules that the European Union will follow in the negotiations with the United Kingdom. In addition, equally important principles of institutional cooperation have been established between the European Council, the European Commission and the European Parliament. I return to the key points, the elements of the Presidency. On the economic agenda, the Slovak Presidency has set itself as one of the priorities for reviewing the European Union's multiannual financial framework. The position on extending and extending the mandate of the European Strategic Investment Fund was also agreed. The second priority of the Presidency was the modern single market. The focus was on the implementation of the 2015 Single Market Strategy and the Digital Single Market Strategy adopted by the European Commission. At this point, the Posting of Workers Directive should be mentioned. The Commission for European Union Affairs in March 2016 adopted an opinion on the non-compliance of this project with the principle of subsidiarity and subsequently adopted a resolution on this matter. In total, 11 parliaments have raised such reservations. However, we continue to note with concern that the European Commission has not responded to a large number of votes against among individual Member States. Another very important topic for Poland was the legislative package on electricity published at the end of November 2016. winter package. We do not object to the construction of a new electricity market architecture, but the rules on limiting the use of support mechanisms are unacceptable for us. The Committee on European Union Affairs will certainly react strongly. Support mechanisms only for selected energy sources are an obvious attempt to influence the choice of energy sources. As part of our committee's work last December, a subcommittee on the European Union's energy policy was set up. In this forum we will also discuss Poland's position on individual documents so-called. the winter package. Another challenge faced by the Slovak Presidency was the question of migration and asylum policy. Poland has always stressed that it will not accept solutions that propose an automatic and mandatory system for the allocation of refugees. The European Commission for European Affairs last September discussed a legislative proposal on establishing criteria and mechanisms for determining the Member State responsible for examining the application for international protection. The Commission considered the proposal to be incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity and, at a later stage, the Sejm adopted a resolution on this matter in October 2016. As part of the migration policy, work also focused on the rapid adoption of a regulation on the European Border and Coast Guard. Poland has actively participated in the work because we believe that border guards are one of the most important elements that can ensure a high level of internal security in the European Union. As President of the European Union Committee on Affairs, I would like to say to the High House that the time of the Slovak Presidency is also the time of the active work of the European Union Commission. During Slovakia's presidency of the Council of the European Union, the committee held 36 meetings. Once again, I would like to stress that the European Union's Committee on Affairs is one of the most busy Parliamentary committees. The Commission has examined 412 European Union documents, including 75 draft legislative acts, adopted 7 opinions, including 2 opinions on EU documents. In the case of one of the documents I have already mentioned when discussing migration policy, the committee has found that the draft legislative act does not comply with the principle of subsidiarity. The next, last priority area is Europe's global commitment. It focused on two important topics. One of them is the European Union's enlargement and neighbourhood policy, and the General Affairs Council has unfortunately failed to adopt conclusions on this issue. This is an exceptional situation, which shows an increasingly visible division of Member States into a group that supports enlargement and a group of sceptical states. A second important aspect of public interest was the issue of a free trade agreement with Canada, commonly referred to as CETA. After all, Poland supported the signing of the agreement, but of course it will still require ratification of the Polish Parliament. The Commission held a discussion during its meetings, inter alia. on the legal and political implications of the outcome of the referendum in the UK, delays in the implementation of EU directives relevant to Poland for the agricultural sector in the TTIP trade agreement negotiated between the European Union and the United States. The Commission has given an opinion on the Committee of the Regions of the European Union. In addition, she considered a very important study on the competence of national Parliaments in the legislative process of the European Union, as well as a draft of the Declaration of Remembrance and Solidarity of the Polish Sejm and the Verkhovna Council of Ukraine for the marshal. I will add that, as every year, the committee took note of the European Court of Auditors' annual report on the implementation of the European Union budget in 2015, but for the first time this information presented by Mr Janusz Wojciechowski was very reliable and interestingly presented. Within the framework of the committee, the Special Sub-Committee on the European Union's Trade Agreement with the United States of America and the Sub-Committee on the use of funds originating in the European Union continued to operate and, of course, started work in December, as I mentioned earlier, the Sub-Committee on Energy Policy of the European Union. Act of 8 October 2010 on cooperation of the Council of Ministers with the Sejm and the Senate, so-called. co-operatively, it allowed for current information on government activities in the European arena, which the Commission for European Affairs makes reasonable and meticulous use of. In view of the well prepared written information provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and thanking the Minister, especially for a meaningful dialogue with the members of the committee, the European Union Commission decided to recommend to the High House the adoption of a resolution of the Polish Sejm in which the Polish Parliament adopts information on the participation of the Council of Ministers in the work of the European Union during July-December 2016 under the leadership of the Slovak Presidency. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u144	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Konrad Głębocki, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u145	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice on information for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in July-December 2016, i.e. during the presidency of Slovakia in the Council of the European Union. Before I go to the point, I would like to thank our Slovak brothers on this occasion for holding a Presidency that was very good on the organisational side. The tie I am wearing today is a souvenir from the Slovak Presidency. We positively assess the actions of the government of the Republic of Poland during the above period. These were fully subjective actions, actions of the state which formulates its own interests in a manner consistent with the Polish state ration. During this period Poland worked closely, which should be stressed, with the other Visegrad Group countries and on key issues, this was very important, among others. on a case like immigration. The Slovak Presidency has chosen four priority areas of its presidency: a strong economic Europe, a modern single market, a sustainable migration and asylum policy and a global Europe. These were well-chosen priorities, in an appropriate manner, which was also expressed in the position of the government. Few people have predicted that Brexit's impact will also necessarily be included in this agenda. The Slovak Presidency started at this point when it was known just after the referendum that the United Kingdom would leave the European Union. I participated in the so-called. the small COSAC as Vice-President of the European Union Affairs Commission in July 2016 and in this group, this issue was of key importance. We talked about the effects of Brexit and the reasons for this process or this decision. Only representatives of Poland, Hungary and Slovakia wanted a broader discussion on the real reasons for this decision. Unfortunately, the slogan was dominated by the fact that the response to Brexit was to be more social Europe. We positively assess the fact that the Polish government was trying to ensure that the leading role in the negotiations that will start - art. 50 has not yet been launched by the United Kingdom, but this will probably happen soon - the European Council has played it to issue the negotiating directives. It is all the more important that the whole process is under the control of the Member States. After all, Britain is very important to us in many ways, also as our second economic partner, after Germany. It takes second place ex aequo, with the Czech Republic, although the percentage in foreign trade of Poland is just over 4%. Anyway, we have something to win, we have something to lose in these negotiations. Under the Slovak Presidency in September 2016, an informal summit of 27 Member States and governments took place in Bratislava, which started the political reflection process on the reform of the European Union, so-called. Brasilian trial. Here it is worth saying that President Jarosław Kaczyński, as one of the first people to speak last year after Brexit about the need for treaty changes, because this is a key issue for the future of the European Union, how we will react to Brexit. If this reaction isn't right, it's gonna be more exites. During the Slovak Presidency, there is indeed some re-evaluation in the current European Commission when it comes to the common market. What Minister Konrad Szymański said is indeed very disturbing, i.e. certain protectionist practices that are beginning to manifest themselves. On the occasion of the yellow card on posted workers, we see in a very clear way that under the heading of social passwords there is a defence of the interests of certain Member States that protect their own markets, in this case services markets. After all, the directive on posted workers is about defending these markets. Today, posted workers must have a minimum wage provided in the countries that accept these workers. The aim of this directive is not only to ensure that it is a minimum wage but fully all the provisions of the Labour Code. This means the loss of competitiveness by many Polish companies, including e.g. in the construction sector. Therefore, this is a key issue in which direction the internal market will go, whether these protectionist practices will be established, whether they will enter different areas or not. Strengthening the internal market is also a question of the digital market. There have been concrete results during the Slovak Presidency. The Polish government, which we appreciate very positively, supports the creation of a common digital market. The energy union is a very important issue. We support the position of the Polish government so that energy security issues do not fall into the background. Unfortunately, such an impression can be felt. In the proposals of EU legislation on the Energy Union, energy security is entirely on the second plan, e.g. in such an umbrella regulation, which is intended to address the energy union management system, energy security has its place, only marginal. In fact, where some countries really care about it, such as: on the issue of energy efficiency, there are very strong concrete proposals in the legislative proposals, often also adversely affecting the Polish economy, concerning e.g. the use of coal to produce energy in our country. The Presidency also held discussions on the revision of the European Union's multiannual financial framework. The Polish government rightly took the view that an increase in the level of commitments should be accompanied by an increase in payments. Discussions on migration policy are a key aspect of what is currently happening in the European Union. We support the consistent position of the Polish government so that there is no automatic mechanism when it comes to the separation of refugees, all the more so any financial penalties. Taking into account what the European Commission proposed in 2016, i.e. that a Member State will have to pay 250,000 for one unaccepted refugee under such an automatic mechanism. And if we multiply this by 10,000 euros a year, we're going to have really huge resources. Within the Visegrad Group, a proposal for flexible solidarity was reached. When we were at a meeting in Brussels with Frans Timmermans, which was during the Slovak Presidency, the European Commission's vice-president was very positive about the proposal for flexible solidarity. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is in favour of accepting government information about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the Slovak Presidency. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u146	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Trzaskowski, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Unfortunately, the Civic Platform Club will not be able to support this information. I don't want to do you a favor like that, Minister, but there's a well-known tactic about a good and bad cop. What you say on many points makes sense, and on several points, which I will talk about, we judge Poland's interests in a similar way as the government does. We're different on a few other issues. However, unfortunately, it is impossible to abstract itself from the conduct of foreign policy and European policy by the Government of Law and Justice. Unfortunately, the majority in this government and President Kaczyński himself play the role of this evil policeman. You, as a good policeman, are unable, unfortunately, to balance this image. Everything that happens in European politics must be evaluated by the prism of what is happening primarily in Poland, by the prism of the wrong selection of strategic partners and by the prism that Polish government ministers, Prime Minister and Jarosław Kaczyński decided to go to war with the EU institutions, attacking them all the time, undermining their prerogatives and attacking ad personam. Because sometimes I have to take a negative view of some of the European Commission's proposals, but what the Government of Law and Justice has done is attack EU institutions, which I am about to say. The attack on Donald Tusk is completely incomprehensible, too. I would even be able to understand certain animosities that behind closed doors someone would raise some questions, while what we are dealing with is the confusion of the Pole in the highest position actually by all ministers of this government who are outrunning it. Unfortunately, it affects the negative attitude of our partners and allies, the European institutions, as well as the fact that the government is isolated and marginalized, that it is difficult for it to fight effectively for the Polish state's right. Sometimes I even observe what I regret that the European institutions are trying to do to the rule of law and justice. Here I have a question about the future, because Jarosław Kaczyński announced a discussion about the future of the treaties. I ask these questions and I hear nothing but Professor Legutko talking about reducing the prerogatives of the European Commission, except that I hear from Minister Waszczykowski that he wants to reduce European integration to four freedoms at all. It's completely incomprehensible. This is contrary to Polish interest and this, of course, reflects on how effectively Polish interests can be pursued. Because if someone says that your main goal is to limit the influence of the European Commission - notabene Professor Legutko also spoke about the fact that he would like to eliminate the position of a permanent representative of the European Council, here I would ask the Minister to comment - it is no wonder that you are ineffective. As far as the specifics are concerned - and these are also the questions that I asked yesterday, because of some things we want to settle you, we want to ask questions in the coming years - Great Britain, here we agree that Britain should be as close as possible to the European Union and that we should not use the negotiation process with Great Britain to punish Great Britain. Because we sometimes see such trends in the European Union. Another issue is the budgetary review. Here we have an authentic problem with the assessment of the rulers, because you will have huge problems with spending EU money, and I cannot agree with that claim that there will be no excessive accumulation of funds that you are not able to spend in the coming years. What's more, it seems to me, I hope I'm wrong, that some of the money from the EU budget will be lost. Can the Minister really promise me that you will not lose money from the EU budget and that you will be able to negotiate an ambitious budget for the next years in this atmosphere that you yourself have created when, it seems, all institutions see as an enemy? Even the European Court of Justice Europeans have decided to attack. I know it's hard for you to work, and I regret it, but it's the truth. As far as Nord Stream is concerned, you've attacked us multiple times. What's going on? The coalition is collapsing because the Visegrad Group states are talking less and less about Nord Stream. The same is true of the Scandinavian countries. It seems that the coalition we built to fight this evil project is falling apart in front of us. Defending the Single Market. Once again, there is a problem, because if you treat the European Commission as an enemy that needs to be limited, it is hardly surprising that the European Commission does not want to be our ally on such an important issue, even though it should be its task, which I regret again. It will be difficult, fighting the European Commission, to urge it to defend issues that are important to us, for example. the issue of posting of workers. And these are also questions to the Minister about how you're gonna deal with it. Energy policy. It's hard to say that this is your great success, because it's a little bit like NATO and security. The records were in the conclusions of the European Council which we negotiated on the transparency of contracts. If you succeed in the issues of SoS - security, and transparency of contracts to bring to an end, then I will gladly approve, but you cannot pretend that this is your project. Migration. There's nothing to pretend about. In the Treaty of Lisbon, certain competences have been delegated to the European Union, including qualified majority voting, and I do not want to remind you who negotiated this. We are all talking about the need to help third countries that borders need to be strengthened, that relocation mechanisms through our negotiations are difficult to implement, but there is nothing to pretend that this is enough. About revitalizing Eastern policy... Because the agreement with Turkey indicates that it will be necessary to think about, however, a very limited number of women and children help. I don't want to comment on the revitalization of Eastern politics, because these are the sad pictures with Lukashenka. Unfortunately, I don't see any active policy, no initiative on your part. Show me where you've actually made a whole new groundbreaking proposal where you're assertive. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u148	Thank you. Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u149	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have exactly the same problem as Mr Trzaskowski. When I listen to you, because I really like listening to you, I appreciate your competence, I respect your work, I admire your determination for even moments, because I know it's not easy for you. I truly admire it. The fact that you didn't mention... You just have to think about what you're doing here, too. You did not mention the password that the whole of Europe lived and which we were to some extent authors - to some extent, or perhaps at all, because I do not know who was really the author - of flexible solidarity. You didn't mention it. You didn't say that word. I know, I know why. That's because you know how terrible the offer was. But you must remember who you serve. Mr PiS stressed the importance and success of this initiative. How can such a matter be served? How can you do that? The point is that it is in the process of reviewing the multi-annual financial framework that they assume... What, Minister? What kind of mechanisms? Elasticity, isn't it? They provide flexibility mechanisms. At this time you are talking about flexible solidarity, of course on another matter, the one that suits you here. But we have to remember the whole reality. This is putting the most important Polish interests at stake. How can one be a credible defender or one who fights for the single market, fights European protectionism, and at the same time talks about flexible solidarity? [[What does that have to do with anything?]] How can you do that? After all, everyone reads this game, after all, Minister, we are not talking about the uniformity of the market that exists, after all in the law You don't have records, laws that French or Germans break. These are conversations between partners who make up laws. And at this point, Do we enter with flexible solidarity? We're setting ourselves up. We're setting ourselves up. Alone. It is you who give such initiatives to the Germans and the French, so that they can block Polish carriers. It is you who are fighting the common energy policy with these initiatives. It is you who destroy the most important political interests of Poland with such initiatives. You cannot demand that the French let Polish workers into their market, which is the most important thing for us, and at the same time talk about flexible solidarity. Elastic, because the French have the right to their flexibility, too. We've got to make up our mind about something. You can't, Minister... I quote your words, this is a quote that I very much like, you said today that we must reduce the level of tension in Europe, in the institutions. But yesterday, from this speaker, the minister, your boss, said that we had to go down to the foundations, the whole law, I understand, eliminate, forget and on four freedoms, on what was established in Rome, build again. That's a power reduction? Minister! Minister, I regret, and I am actually saying this to the Marshal of the Sejm that the debate - the European Union, and I think we will all agree here - is an extremely important area of life - another debate on this issue is held on Friday at the end, after the votes. This is not a serious debate. These are the most important things. This debate should be a key debate, once every six months, because it is a debate about how Poland behaves, what policy [[♪ The bell ♪]] Poland operates in the European Union. And, Mr. Marshal, I have a request that the Sejm Bureau take this debate seriously, because this is one of the most important debates that are taking place in the Polish Sejm. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Sylwester Khrushch, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u151	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Everyone praises Minister Konrad Szymanski, so I agree with my two distinguished speakers. I sign up, too, we have them here, in these laudations at the Minister's address. Well, it's a very good presentation of this Slovak Presidency, very well-diagnosed of the six months we've had. I am sure that the Slovak Presidency has set itself a very high bar, it has touched on the very important problems that are bothering the European Union today, because on the one hand - I am not saying which of the most important points - we have heard about the Energy Union, about the enlargement of the European Union to the west of the Balkans, we heard at the beginning of the Presidency about the modernisation of the European institutions, about the image of the European Union, about Europe outside, in the world, about the strength of our economy... And everything would have been going well if it hadn't been the day before the Presidency after the referendum in England in the framework of the democratic procedures of the United Kingdom, England or the United Kingdom society, voted in favour of leaving the European Union. And it certainly gave it a tone, changed it, so it guided this presidency that it had to suddenly correct its priorities, its politics and place its accents somewhere else. And about the fact that they very much, I mean. In my opinion, they were well prepared for this Presidency, for example. the summit in Bratislava, which confirmed these directions. It was an active Presidency that was so different from the previous one. What is important is that Slovakia and the Visegrad Group's states strongly stressed the issue of the immigration crisis. They said we had to change the existing allocation of immigrants. They were the ones who made the case, and they applied to the European Court of Justice to repeal the decisions on the allocation obligation. It was significant, it was strong, it was noticeable. Next, my speakers strongly stressed protectionism, i.e. what we see in the European Union, which has a very strong impact on our companies, which we really feel. And now there's this discussion. ♪ We're gonna ♪ We stressed what my previous speakers said, the obligation to protect the labour markets, what we see, the Posted Workers Directive. This is a real process that is taking place in the European Union, and we in the future, as Poland, as a government, as a parliament, will also have to react strongly to these processes. As for external policy, because here is the internal problem of Brexit, but outside, that is, the case. Turkey, which has emerged here today, is very positive that at that time we were able as Europe to stop the main stream of immigration from Turkey. It was a big success. I from this lecturer said a year ago that I was skeptical that I didn't believe this trial would work. We are very large funds as Poland, as the European Union we have sent there. But it worked. And it works, and that must be commended, that must be noted. In this way, we have increased security in the European Union, and we have removed the spectrum of terrorism. These advantages could be multiplied here, and this is an element of perhaps even a separate debate. What's important? Energy Union. Yes, Slovakia, the Presidency has talked about the importance of energy security, the importance of gas transmission. Here she has made our position, our position in the sense of Eastern Europe, not only Visegrad, not only these countries closely around us. I think that the European Union as a whole is now more aware of the importance of this issue for Eastern Europe. Now enlargement of the European Union to the Western Balkans. I'll put my accent here mostly on Serbia. Serbia, which is carrying out major reforms, Serbia, which has already made a great deal of internal and political changes. What is happening in Kosovo, the fact that Serbia is changing its accents on Serbia's Kosovo, also shows that Serbia really wants to be in the family of European countries, Western countries, and their diplomacy is trying to make it noticeable, which also needs to be raised here. Similarly, strengthening cooperation with Georgia, Moldova, Ukraine. That's a good direction too. It is good that we are bringing Latin civilization into our world also those countries that should be closer to us, closer to our cultural, economic impact. It also increases security in this region of the world. We know for ourselves, those who are watching foreign policy, know it, just turn on the TV to see that the world has gotten faster, political pressures are changing now, countries like Turkey, Russia, which are doing it through new alliances, Iran, is the new policy of the United States, which we will now be watching which direction it will go. In all of this, we as the European Union, we as Poland should define well, understand these processes well. And may I conclude by saying that I was very pleased with this firm policy of Slovakia, this Presidency. It was a determined policy. The Slovaks argued very well and showed what is important today in the European Union. What's more, it was a sensible policy. So you can talk about national interests in the European Union, you can talk about reforming the European Union in a reasonable way, not against someone, but you can push other countries into this process, and you can attract other countries to it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u152	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Golbik, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u153	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister, you are undoubtedly an excellent diplomat. I think that listening to your speech today, you could not have guessed how lonely Poland is now in the European Union. I will address a few issues, but I think that the most important issues during the Slovak Presidency and the last six months of Poland's functioning within the European Union. The first issue is the subject of Brexit already discussed today. Although there has been no official notification during the Slovak Presidency of the intention of the United Kingdom to leave the Union, this process, as we know, will take place. This is a particularly important issue for Poland in relation to Witold Waszczykowski's declaration that Britain is our most important ally in Europe and that we have a common understanding of important elements of the European agenda, and it has turned out that our partner is leaving the European Union. This raises many problems, especially for our compatriots living and working in the British Isles. The question remains, therefore, whether we will defend our position as regards access to the labour market in the UK, the free movement of goods and services and whether our countrymen will maintain social security. Did we not give up hard negotiations too quickly on these issues and accept Britain's position too quickly? We would also like to know - this is still the case - what is the position towards Donald Tusk submitting his candidacy for the second part of the term of office of the President of the European Council. The Polish Government publicly declares its lack of support for Donald Tusk's efforts, but at the time when he declares his readiness to work as President of the European Council, the Minister for Foreign Affairs expresses his dissatisfaction that Donald Tusk does not seek support from the Polish Government. I think that, in view of these contradictory signals, a clear declaration of the Polish government is needed in view of support or lack of support for the Polish candidate, especially since the previous position of the government does not seem to have any support even among the member states of the Visegrad Group. In the context of the Visegrad Group, the question of the legitimacy of close cooperation with Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán is still important. I think it is incomprehensible to support the Hungarian Prime Minister, who called for the abolition of sanctions imposed on Russia, in view of the fact that Poland is opting to maintain a uniform and coherent position of the European Union vis-à-vis Russia. During the Slovak Presidency, as has already been mentioned today, the issue of reflection on the development of the European Union, the rebuilding of social confidence in the Union and its reform has been addressed. Poland appears here as a supporter of major, major reforms, but once again our position seems lonely, also against the declaration by Chancellor Angela Merkel, expressed during a recent visit to Poland, which said that it was very careful about reforming the European Union in the current difficult international situation. And we agree that, at this point in time, reforming the European Union and wanting to open treaties could, above all, harm us, especially since we do not have the support of other countries. The question of the principle of flexible cooperation, according to which individual countries of the European Union are closely integrated in some area, e.g. in defence or in the euro area - here the question arises as to what vision of flexible cooperation the Polish government currently has and in what circles of integration of the new Union will be Poland. Two more questions. The first point: In the context of migration policy, how will Poland's relations with Turkey take place, in particular in the face of a lack of consensus among the Member States on this issue? And last but not least, a discussion on how to respond to the migration crisis. Poland declared the need for action in the countries of origin and transit of migrants. I am pleased that the Minister spoke today about the fact that he is actually involved, but the question is whether, according to you, this is sufficient commitment of our country to help and whether there is any long-term vision. 'Cause I think there's got to be an idea in such an important case, some kind of vision of the future. Have we identified areas where we can and do want to be more active and help solve the migratory problems that the whole of Europe is facing? Finally, on economic issues, the Slovak Presidency focused on the importance of cohesion policy and tools supporting employment growth. Does Poland have an idea to use the European Structural Funds to support employment growth in the near future? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Truskolasna, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The document presented by you is very extensive and points to a number of successes in our country's foreign policy, which were supposed to take place in July-December 2016 during the Slovak Presidency of the European Union. However, summarized six months, contrary to what could result from the development and your speech, was a very weak period for Polish foreign policy. The government did not properly take advantage of another opportunity to strengthen the Polish position on the international stage. We can even say that our position is constantly being weakened. Minister Waszczykowski emphasized in his exposé that the priority of Polish foreign policy in 2016 will be to provide Poland with military and economic security. [[But this isn't the debate.]] Have the Minister's announcements been implemented? The answer to this question is undoubtedly negative. The only success is perhaps the discovery of a new country by the head of our diplomacy and the establishment of diplomatic relations with it. These shocking events made Poland loud in all media. I just wish our country... [[But this isn't the debate!]] Don't disturb me, sir. It's just a pity that our country is being ridiculed all over the world. [[Christopher, that was yesterday.]] The question is whether it strengthens our country's position. I'm not gonna comment on that anymore. Returning to Poland's relations with the Member States of the European Union, it should be stressed that they do not encourage optimism. For Berlin and Paris, Warsaw has become a third-rate country and all indications are that they are not even interested in strengthening relations with us. Undoubtedly, this was influenced by undemocratic government movements in our country that echoed around the world. After all, Germany and France are strategic members of the European Union, and it is the relations and partnerships with these countries of our diplomacy that should depend most. Our position within the Community is very weak and all indications are that this situation cannot be expected to improve, given the actions of our government. The only European country with which we have good relations is Hungary. Here we have to think about what this is all about. What can we gain as Poland on this relationship, since this country is located, there is nothing to be deceived, in poor economic condition? Is that the kind of partners we need? How is Poland supposed to be a strong country, a country that counts in the international arena, since our diplomacy is not trying to build relations with countries of importance in Europe? Not from now on it is known that we need to learn from better ones, among such countries we need to seek allies. Europe faces many challenges and new challenges are constantly emerging. Therefore, Poland should maintain as close as possible relations with the Member States of the European Union. This will enable us to actively participate in the joint work and reach solutions that will take into account the interests of our country in the international arena. In the present state, this is much more difficult. Since the other countries do not take our vote into account, we cannot take proper care of our interests. A fundamental change in foreign policy must be made and the role of our country must be strengthened, rather than constantly weakened. [[What does that have to do with the presidency?]] Membership in the European Union is essential to us and we must not forget that. It is necessary to do everything possible to participate as actively as possible in this institution's activities and to strengthen our country's position. We must strive for Poland to be seen as a strong partner and ally. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Christopher, this is not the debate. About the Presidency, about the Presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u156	Thank you very much. Mrs Andżelik Możjanowska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Minister, there's been a lot of positive words here, I'll just join them. You are a highly valued politician, an expert in international affairs and I do not hide that a gentleman of Polish foreign policy in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]] The document we are currently debating is a cyclical document defining our participation in the semi-annual functioning of the European Union. Although this document is cyclical, the rest is not cyclical. The Slovak Presidency came at a difficult time for the European Union immediately after the unprecedented British referendum on leaving the Community. Although I should not say exactly: unprecedented, because I presume, completely provided by representatives of Polish diplomacy with Minister Waszczykowski at the head. After all, the Minister pointed to Great Britain as our greatest ally in the European Union. And you don't understand it, but it was a perfect chess game. So, since our only ally in the Union is gone, will it be time for us too? Especially since the second allies of our minister of diplomacy, instead of playing with us to a common goal, is now making a deal on the construction of a nuclear power plant with Vladimir Putin. In addition, the elected President of the United States is looking for allies in Europe to dismantle this completely unnecessary competition business. In the light of the above, the two objectives of the Slovak Presidency: focused on increasing unity between the countries of the European Union and strengthening the economic strength of the Union in the world, have significantly missed the goals of our Polish diplomacy. The third objective of achieving a balance in migration and asylum policy will be left out discreetly. The remaining, far less controversial objectives were to eliminate geo-blocking in e-commerce, to eliminate roaming charges, to reach an agreement with the European Parliament on 5G networks and to pursue wireless, universal Internet access. From the examples already cited, it is clear that the Slovak Presidency has significantly missed the expectations and actions of our government. From the Slovak Presidency, there is an image of a common, united Europe, a unified market, a common development and a common solution to problems that are many. I am just wondering why the preparation of the document, the report, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs considers as good or very good actions concerning the European Community, the common market and the common solution of problems - actions that are completely in line with the vision of Europe and Poland built by Donald Tusk. Didn't the Minister review that document that came out of your ministry, or is it something like a huge political coming out? Do you know that everything you assessed so well in the report is fully in line with what Polish diplomacy has been doing for eight years? Is the Minister aware that you are pointing out the purpose of choosing Donald Tusk for the second term of office? But that's not surprising, after all, Minister Waszczykowski was in Donald Tusk's government. Either it's a tricky plan, how to support Tusk, not to lose the anti-tush voters, or it's a powerful piece of shit that you're going to hear today not only in the Alley, but most importantly, from the biggest oppositionist in Novgorod. After all, if you praise a common, economically strong Europe in a document, you cannot at the same time stand as the greatest friend with those who destroy this economic size of Europe or destroy their decisions, like the United Kingdom, or weaken it, like Hungary, or finally want to completely marginalize it, like the United States. On each page prepared by the ministry of the document we can read peans in honor of Donald Tusk's politics, or phrases and expressed sentences, which in the documents sound nice and in life - tragically. You write: Poland appreciates that cooperation with third countries has been extended, especially in Africa and Asia. At the same time, when actions can follow words, you refuse to accept 10 orphans from the ruined Aleppo War. So I wonder where the Polish government wants to send the money that they keep talking about. Where is this mythical place where money is supposed to be sent to help migrants - does it even exist? Doesn't it turn out that it was better to help here, on the spot? Because if you brought in those 10 Syrian orphans, all the expenses involved would be visible. And so you can send in the dark and no one knows if they're sent, who sends to whom or how much they send. Although no, I'm sorry, there's been a new opposition body recently - about evaluation and control activities. Surprisingly, the document does not address migration and cooperation with San Escobar. Is that an oversight? After all, maybe in this imaginary ministerial world the issue of migration would at least be arranged. And now the most important - Polish agriculture and Polish industry. Neither in the document nor, worst of all, as part of the action of Law and Justice in the European Union - yes, because it is our ministry in the European Union that should still be present and active, and not in San Escobar, Hungary or the United Kingdom - that there is nothing about government action in the care of industry and agriculture in the context of, for example. the signature of the CETA trade agreement, the European Union - Canada. Given that Canada, which has 35 million inhabitants, less than Poland, and at the same time huge areas for large-area cultivation, will soon flood the European Union and Poland with genetically modified products, why hasn't the government taken more decisive action in this regard? Don't tell farmers how important they are to you - we all know that everyone is important, who hasn't voted yet - but don't count on the fact that a Polish farmer can easily be fooled. You've had so many ideas, as well as when you weren't in power, and now the avian flu is falling apart. Those farmers who don't get paid on time know exactly what I'm talking about. Just like you're still blaming House I and previous governments, yes, and then when Canadian agriculture is gonna deny our quality, good products, you're gonna say it's Tusk's fault too? Yesterday there was a very important debate about the tasks of Polish foreign policy in 2017. So? It's the masterpiece again. You're a brilliant unique man, Minister Waszczykowski. You're avoiding a declaration like a fire. During your speech, you did not mention a single objective that was well defined, which is at least the time it was achieved, a precise description and any measure at all. What are we talking about here anyway? In order for you to be able to point out the goals of Polish foreign policy, you would first have to point out an analysis of the geopolitical situation. And maybe that's good, 'cause we'd hear about your other imaginary countries again. There was no vision of our place in this joint or not common place, but Europe, there was no sketch of strategy - but, of course, there was a PR play for an election festival. That's what I was afraid you wouldn't wake up from the electoral promise and move on to real action. Instead, you scare Poles, marginalize the role of European politicians, insult them, and yet we are part of this community - as you yourself note in the prepared document, the community to which Poland belongs and wants to belong. I personally count on changing government policy to pro-European, as your staff described in the document, giving the best possible assessment of the past 8 years of diplomacy. I also hope that the future Presidency will be open to the voice of Poland. But it must be the voice of reason. A voice that has something to propose, because the Union is ready for reform, is ready for the challenges that await us. After the US elections, we must make special efforts not only to ensure that something that has been built for more than 60 years survives, but also to ensure that the European Union continues to be one of the strongest players in the global market and that it continues to guarantee stability and development for Europeans. I must say with surprise that, despite your scandalous and ridiculous statements, the document prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs staff is a good document which, of course, does not correspond with your position and your actions. What should we do when we have excellent soldiers and a lousy general? The Polish People's Party hopes that the Prime Minister is well aware of the answer to this question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Nicely read, Angela. Nicely read.]] [[You gotta be able to...]] [[Of course I do. That's why I value it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u158	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. Question time - 1 minute, excuse me, 2 minutes. I'll close the list after the first question. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u159	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! However, I must refer to Polish diplomacy. Ladies and gentlemen, you have said important words to me, Minister, ending your speech. Retoric and image are really very wise words. But how do we apply the words of our foreign minister Witold Waszczykowski? I quote: I do not expect any cooperation from Mr Schulz. He is a weak-educated and poorly-oriented man in the political world. Further quote: Martin Schulz is certainly an extreme leftist, who believes that everything that goes away from the left-wing norm is a threat to Europe. In such cases, he will protest, ridicule, stir up quarrels with every country. Poland is not particularly affected here. I would like to remind you that he was the head of Parliament - but the current candidate for chancellor of Germany and the German public opinion. He is very closely following all the words spoken by such a high civil servant as Mr.Waszczykowski. How can foreign policy be conducted using such a non-diplomatic language? I'm just gonna finish this short speech with your smart ending: rhetoric and image. We should be very careful about that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u160	Thank you. Mrs Marta Golbik, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u161	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have two more questions. With regard to the Slovak Presidency, the question remains as to whether our existing efforts towards the established European Border Guard and, above all, the strengthening of the European Union's external borders are sufficient. In the case of Poland, it is a question of sealing the eastern border, but also of providing support to other countries, e.g. Greece. Shouldn't Poland's position be more firm, visible, especially in terms of saving the health and life of migrants, as well as the fight against the network of smugglers of illegal migrants? Are we sufficiently active to support the common European asylum system and develop legislation on this issue? What are we doing to stabilise the borders and the unstable Schengen area? I have a second question, completely different, because in the past six months a debate has been held on a particularly important topic of research and innovation and the attractiveness of young researchers' careers, as well as the innovation of small and medium-sized enterprises. What conclusions are coming from this debate for Poland, and what concrete actions will be taken to support researchers in the early stages of their careers, as well as to promote investment in research and development? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u162	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u163	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My first question concerns the neighbourhood policy. Now, as far as our eastern border is concerned, we have armed conflicts in Ukraine, conflict in Georgia, arming up the royal area. Therefore, the European Union's neighbourhood policy vis-à-vis Moldova is also very important. The situation in Transnistria is not peaceful. Hence my question: Is there progress in this respect in relations between the European Union and Moldova? The second question concerns the situation of Polish children from mixed marriages in the countries of the European Union. Is there hope of regulating this issue at European Union level? It is about eliminating discrimination, especially as regards language and contacts with parents. This applies to e.g. Germany, Italy, as well as Latvia and other countries. I hope that these issues can be resolved at this higher level, as it is not always possible to resolve specific issues with individual countries in bilateral relations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u164	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u165	Mr. Marshal! Minister! People also judge the European Union through individual benefits when they see that the real operation of this structure is beneficial or facilitates their lives. There is still one thing at the head of this list of benefits, namely lowering roaming prices. But if you think about what's going into public opinion, what other issues are the direct benefit of citizens, it's hard to say directly. Here is the question to the Minister: What list of these problems related to the functioning of ordinary people, e.g. You're working? What progress have we made during this Presidency? Have we made any progress at all? I'll give you two hints. Namely, there are very strange toll rates for motorways, and Poles belong to one of the most traveling nations, about 20 million people move around Europe and have this problem. Minister, I would like to ask you very much, maybe you are sending some of your employees to take the route from Warsaw through A1, Ostrava, Bratislava to Budapest and see what it looks like to buy vignettes, what are the rates, what is the difficulty, how it looks like, I apologize for how you drive to Hungary, what a problem it is to buy this vignette every time, because there is no one to be afraid of, how Czech policemen will treat us, who are not famous for their favour for Poles. That's one thing. The second thing is, for example. Horrible fees for services, drinking, water, basic food at airports when we're already out of check-in. We pay, we're skinned naked as people who travel and have no choice but to wait for the plane. Minister, what is this list of things Poland is going out with as part of cooperation in the European Union, what are we doing, where are we making progress? I'll be grateful for your answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u166	Thank you. Mr Konrad Głębocki, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u167	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! How the boomerang in the statements of Members of the Civic Platform returns the matter of support for Donald Tusk. Minister, I ask the question whether President Donald Tusk asked for support from the Polish government. I am not in the Polish government, so I do not want to judge this situation or say what should be done. I just want to remind you that in January this year, Donald Tusk threatened Poland with negative consequences. [[Everything's still ahead of us.]] It was in the context of adopting the budget, but in any case it was an extremely damaging statement for Poland. Let me remind you one more thing. Donald Tusk, three days before the United States elections, tweeted his wife's statement that one Donald in international politics was enough. This was a harmful statement to the European Union's relations with the future administration of the President, who after three days turned out to be the newly elected President of the United States. Thank you very much. [[Oh, my God.]] [[Harmful? You don't have a sense of humor. It's so stiff.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u168	Thank you very much. Mr Sylwester Khrushch, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u169	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm asking the Minister a question. Slovakia has requested the European Court of Justice to repeal the decision on the obligation to allocate immigrants. I would like to ask whether since then we as Poland, as the Ministry, have not noticed any further important arguments, whether they appeared to support, strengthen or even continue to be neutral or skeptical. The specific question is whether we should not correct our position today, our opinion on this subject. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u170	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For a year now, the government has been raising the problem facing the European Union's common market, namely that the goods that are being imported into this market are automatically available in all countries, which is of course a good side. The problem arises when we export goods from this common market to markets outside the Union. Then there is no common market, there are attempts to break down this market, get along in the event of some restrictions or embargo of one EU country with another country. In fact, this has little to do with European law because there is no such significant restriction in European law. In this respect, Minister, is something changing in the European Union's attitude? And the second question I would like to ask in this context concerns anti-monopoly and anti-dumping policies. Has the European Commission ever taken any action in this regard? I am talking about the initiative of the European Commission, because so far these initiatives have been extremely bad. Thank you very much, Mr Marshal, thank you to the House. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u172	Thank you very much. Mr Dominik Tarczyński, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u173	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was hoping that this debate would be substantive and that we would talk about such things as the abolition of roaming charges during the Slovak Presidency, the really important things, not the fact that a snail is a fish, which we can hear in the European Union. I have noted some questions from the opposition Members who have used these questions to attack the Polish government and diplomacy, although I do not know what this has to do with the current debate on the Presidency. First of all, Minister, I would like to ask if the words of former foreign minister Radosław Sikorski about doing favors to Americans affected Polish diplomacy, and if so, how harmful they are. Secondly, I would like to ask if Donald Tusk will suffer the consequences of supporting one of the presidential candidates of the United States during the election campaign, as we have already heard today. Does this image of the Sun of Peru and now the Emperor of Europe actually put a shadow on the Polish diplomacy... [[Oh, my God.]] ...and does it have a real, real negative impact that I'd like to know about? I'm not gonna mention the ceta we heard about today, who negotiated it? Platform and PSL. It was in the years of your governments that this agreement was negotiated, and now on the white horse you are trying to fight and involve this discussion in the discussion about the Presidency. Finally, I would like to ask whether it is true that two weeks before the parliamentary elections, Prime Minister Kopacz announced a tender for 10 refugee centres without consulting the local authorities or the public. This information came up really quietly, at night... [[Voice from the room: Lying and nonsense.]] ...and now you want to say that you cared about safety. I've got more than that, but I think it's a waste of time, because these questions are rhetorical. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u174	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Mr Konrad Szymański.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u175	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for your questions, opinions, evaluations. It is difficult for me to agree with many of them, and I will not develop this individually, but I will try to respond to this so that you may even better understand our motives and our way of looking at things, sometimes very generalized, which is mentioned here. Mr Głębocky drew attention to the problem of the causes of Brexit and to the discussion that actually takes place in the European Union. What happened behind Brexit? This is an important question, because if we don't answer each other well, we're going to have trouble avoiding similar scenarios for the future. The conviction that Britain is some very unique country in which very unique laws of politics work is wrong with certainty. The mechanisms that led the British to such a decision are also present in other Member States, so it is of course worth discussing this from a political point of view. One of the elements of the Polish contribution to the discussion about Brexit was to pay attention to the fact that we should not easily close this problem with such a rhetorical grip that it is, in fact, a misunderstanding that the British do not understand anything and made a mistake. It's a little more complicated than that. Of course, there is never one cause. Britain's exit camp from the European Union is extremely diverse. There are people who come out of the European Union because they are in favour of free trade and the market, there are those who think, on the contrary, that borders should be blocked not only for the workforce but also for investment, so it is very difficult to say what motives and in what proportion they influenced this final decision. This is certainly British business, and it is not our business to necessarily judge all these motives. Of course, I have an opinion on this, I have my own assessment, I would know if I voted in a referendum like this, but it's British business. On the other hand, from an EU perspective, it is certainly important to consider whether it is sometimes the case that in the European Union we lack mechanisms of some political caution, which would at least hinder us from taking decisions that permanently alienate a country from the political, decision-making process, and ultimately result in such an effect not only in the form of irritation but even hostility towards an institution. This is the problem of every political community, every international organisation, and certainly the European Union is subject to these rights. And we urge, in fact, our partners to pay attention to some kind of political caution, so that there is no situation that there is increasing impatience, growing discontent, and suddenly explodes in such a way that we all wake up in the morning and are supposedly surprised. I was not particularly surprised by this result of the referendum, given not only how communication works, let's say, public media in the UK - we all know that - but also given how different kinds of sceptical opinions are treated in Brussels. Such a simple procedure, saying that, in fact, everyone who has doubts about one, the other, the third of Brussels politics, is certainly simply populist, xenophobic, nationalist, a man who has been wrong, is not a serious treatment of people. In democracy, unfortunately, we cannot afford to treat our opponents simply as people who should not speak, because it only increases irritation and confrontational moods. Well, it's pretty understandable, I guess. I think that's what we experience in our own political lives. This mechanism certainly played a role, i.e. arrogance, which unfortunately lives still in the European Union, against those who have doubts about this process, this is the way to even greater trouble. I value the declaration by Rafał Trzaskowski, who said that at least in some cases we judge interests similarly. I'm gonna stick to this kind of piece of common agenda, and I'm gonna take care of it. Moreover, perhaps I will appeal to them, because we really need very much that we at least occasionally shake up the debate on matters of such importance, I agree, as Polish membership of the European Union, from rhetoric, which really sometimes disturbs us very much, makes it very difficult for us to understand what we are talking about. It is important that we really pay attention to business, to issues, to concrete initiatives, then maybe it will be easier for us to restore a certain proportion in this dispute. The proportion that - let us be honest - in this debate Sometimes she'd run away from us, sometimes she'd run away quite radically. I will mention only the words about loneliness, the lack of initiative which fell during the week in Warsaw, in which Chancellor Angela Merkel spent a very intense day in Warsaw, the week when the Prime Minister of Ireland came to Warsaw with a very specific political mission, the week during which Prime Minister Beata Szydło left for the Hague with a very specific political agenda, mainly concerning the European Union, during the week and even on the day when the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Norway visits Poland also with a very specific political agenda relating to our key economic interests and security. You really need to have the ability to stand on your head and stand on that head for a very long time to put this kind of fancy, I'd say, thesis. I don't think it's worth wasting time on that kind of thing. Perhaps the media is a good place for this type of play, where we have a very limited time, where we must make a strong impression on the audience. Maybe. I'm not too enthusiastic about it, but I would understand it more. I think the Seym should have this privilege to talk for a little longer - I'm sorry for my little long speech - a little more strictly. As far as the isolation of initiatives is concerned, this is of course an important topic, because when you are a member of a 28-member group, a 28-country organisation, everyone has their own initiatives. Sometimes it's very hard to break through. Everyone has this experience with initiatives. I think that Poland is doing well by choosing those issues that are really important in this debate, including the quite big hustle that was created in particular as a result of the crises that we are facing in Brussels. I would like to point out that very quickly - this is a huge success - we have consulted countries outside the euro area. Regardless of what we think of the Polish accession to the euro area, Poland is outside the euro area and possible acceleration of integration processes within the area itself - what is more, from our point of view it seems necessary to implement anti-crisis mechanisms, after all, we wish that the euro area is in good condition - it requires consolidation of these countries so that they can quietly articulate their expectations, but nevertheless expectations, towards future architecture, so that we do not pay with the integrity of the common market for different, perhaps reasonable, perhaps necessary, actions. We have built a very lasting coalition of countries which oppose protectionism in the common market in the area of posting workers in the area of the road package. This voice seems to be very audible. What I am talking to you today, about protectionism, about the need to protect the common market, is also a voice that - I have such an impression - is still poorly heard in Warsaw, while in other capitals the voice in this matter is very audible, because I see this, often I see how our consultations are going, also at the level of prime ministers. It is simply a very important topic, a very important message, and moreover, a message that gains a reasonable reception in many capitals. This is an important issue and it can be said that today it is a Polish initiative, because Poland is aware of the political consequences for the political balance in the Union of leaving the European Union of Great Britain, a country which - I think that no one has had any doubts about it so far - was, still is a very important part of a certain political balance, particularly in terms of economic governance. To ask the recurring question why we view Britain as an important country is completely incomprehensible to me, because I had the impression that for 20 years we had complete clarity as to why Britain is an important part of the balance, why it is important from the point of view of common sense in terms of economic governance. I don't know - I have some suspicions, but I don't know, let's just assume that I don't know - why suddenly it's just so weird and incomprehensible. It seems to me that there is no need to talk about the role of Britain in global security. Positive changes in NATO architecture, adaptation to threats in the East would not have occurred if the United Kingdom had not been such an important NATO country, such an important component of NATO architecture. That wouldn't have happened. I remind you that it is true that Britain is leaving the European Union. We are not particularly thrilled about this, although it is a British matter, but the UK remains in Europe. Great Britain remains an important component of NATO, so your drive to dissuade the role of this country in the architecture of Polish foreign policy seems to be an excess of rhetoric, some advantage of rhetoric over the sense of Polish interests in this matter. Moods or relationships with institutions. We're trying to make these relationships the best possible. Someone, looking for a reason to illustrate this loneliness, pointed to Brexit. I think this is the worst possible example, because in the Brexit case there is not only a very well formulated unity of the countries of the Union, it is also very well defined with the general Polish participation the role of the European Commission, which is our negotiator at this table and with which we have great hopes. The European Commission has our full support for the enforcement of the European mandate in the Brexit negotiations on this particular issue. Of course, there are worse examples. There are examples in which actually Poland has a different opinion than the European Commission. I will not address the issue of the Court, where the European Commission has simply chosen a rather unusual role, to say the least, but in many other cases we are not satisfied with what the Commission is doing. The European Commission is committed to protecting the common market - this is what is written in the Treaty quite clearly, quite large letters - and we believe that it ignores this issue. The European Commission is bound by the Treaty to express itself on the compatibility of Nord Stream with EU law, with EU strategies, and for some reason it is unable to bring out a clear communication for months. It really is not due, it is the fault of Poland that the Commission creates its competences, and in some places its competences are unfortunately silent. In the Nord Stream case, I have no sense that the Polish tension or the Polish pressure on this issue will weaken. Given that today is the day of the Norwegian Foreign Minister's visit, I think this is a good day to talk about it. Let me remind you that Poland was the initiator of the nine prime ministers' letter to the European Commission. This is the widest coalition that has existed so far in this case. This letter had a very clear expression and raised very serious questions before the Commission. Unfortunately, I do not wish to express these regrets to us that the European Commission allows itself not to answer any of these questions in substance, but to be excused from its Treaty role. Nor do you ask us that when we see quite bright cases of disregard for the treaty order, we will remain silent. No, we will make it quite clear that where the role of the Commission is needed, we expect this role to be fulfilled. We simply expect serious treatment of our responsibilities, not some political choice. The Commission may have the right to some political assessments, maybe it has some political leeway, but it does not really have the right to political choice in terms of treaty obligations. The Nord Stream case returned to the European Council on the Polish issue not only in agreement with a group of countries that signed a letter from nine prime ministers, but also in agreement with the Scandinavian countries. This case isn't closed. It is not closed mainly due to the fact that Poland is showing activity, that Poland has the idea to raise questions not only of a legal nature, not only of a strategic nature, not only of a nature concerning the shape of the gas market, but also of the most important questions of a political and geopolitical nature, because it can be said that I would even be willing to agree with such a partial position of some capitals, to say clearly that this is a business initiative. Yes, it is a business initiative that brings enormous consequences for the shape of the market, colossal political and geopolitical consequences, given that it is likely that its main purpose is to limit transit charges that affect the Ukrainian budget, without which Ukraine is unable to carry out the reform process or finance its state activity. It seems to me that for a business party, there are quite serious consequences, and we're not going to abandon this case. A multi-annual financial framework. Of course, I am quite positive about this compromise, which I hope will be concluded in a moment. I share the concern that we never know what the level of absorption will be, because it depends not only on the government that is doing what it can to make it easier, but also on the activity of the beneficiaries. I don't know if all the beneficiaries will be mobilized enough. [[Simple.]] I can say one thing: I closely observe the work of the Ministry of Development not only with private beneficiaries, but also with local governments, with voivodships, and I can assure you that the Ministry of Development is completely devoted to this issue and is very successful. The level of absorption, contracting at the very beginning of our government was very low. Today Poland is one of the top countries. These data are available. It seems to me that the Ministry of Development has already managed to present them before the Sejm, so you should know that. The agreement that the Treaty of Lisbon provides for the possibility of taking decisions by qualified majority also in relation to the management of refugee traffic, while the mere fact that competences exist does not necessarily mean that they need to be used. It seems to me that that is why it is common sense for the Heads of Government, the Home Affairs Ministers to make political decisions when they reach for the instrument, so I would not be willing to justify the Union's action in this matter so far and reach for this unfortunate instrument just because it was on the table. This is, however, the personal responsibility of those who have decided on such an instrument. The neighbourhood, Lukashenka and the attempt to open up to Belarus are certainly not the whole picture of this situation. That too, by the way. own initiatives: Poland and Denmark are co-authors of a conceptual document that launches the process of revitalising the European Neighbourhood Policy, mainly in the eastern aspect. And I assure you that this is not only a question of Belarus, although I can also assure you that in many European capitals there are great hopes that these really open doors by Poland today, when it comes to Belarus' relations with the West, will have some effect, but, of course, we need both sides' will. We cannot assure you that this opportunity will be used, but we would very much like it to be used, because we would very much like to give up the situation in which Belarus is the only country completely neutralized in terms of the European Neighbourhood Policy. It is not in the interests of our security that Belarus is a country that is excluded from this process. It is in our interest that the neighbourhood policy responds in different ways to the needs of different countries as far as possible. Here, too, it is difficult for me to say whether I find it difficult to recognise, even to ignore the fact that restraint or limited ambition of the institutions and of the European Union itself on the East results only in negative political consequences. In Ukraine, we almost ended up with an association agreement collapse. Moldova is another country that maybe, as we continue to wait with every little thing, will go somewhere else. I don't know if it's in the European interest. It is certainly not in the Polish interest. It certainly doesn't work well for Europe's credibility in the East and you have to be honest about it, because talking, hiding this reality, powdering it with communication and suggesting, in particular to the general public, that everything is in the best order, really doesn't make sense. The degree of profession or irritation will be even greater if we don't tell each other the truth about where we are. There are places where we're in good shape and on a good path, and there are places that you just can't say about. Solidarity is flexible. I did not mention this because at present this document is otherwise called effective solidarity. This rhetorical aspect, which was very strongly raised here by Mr Nitras, is good to say one thing. If solidarity were such a wonderful key that every type of policy defines us, let us give it: the EU, but even wider, then the Treaty would consist of a single article saying that the Member States of the European Union are acting together. Period, that's all we need. However, it is different. The document has 200 pages and, however, sets out in more detail what solidarity means. There is no example of solidarity that is undefined, without borders. There is no example of solidarity in which countries would promise each other in any area, that they would do anything for the other. When we talk about the budget, all we have to do is look at the executive regulations and see that this money isn't some kind of charity. Or a gesture of goodwill for the small expenses we wish for. This is money which is intended for EU objectives implemented in Poland. That's how you look at them. If we are talking about security, of course we can cover it with the paradigm of solidarity. Yes, it's a kind of political solidarity, but that doesn't mean that every kind of armed intervention we come up with will be implemented by other countries. It will only be realized what we are dating to, and what we are dating to is not a sign of goodwill, showing gestures, keeping the so-called. good relationships. It's a consequence. only calculated political interests of both parties. To be honest, I believe only in such agreements, because in agreements that are covered by some great bow of solidarity, I simply do not believe, because I know that they will be so interpreted that they will never produce the expected effect. [[Applause]] Solidarity agreements must always be defined and there is no example when everything would end only with a general, nice, even evangelical call for solidarity. It is far more complicated, therefore easy to move, that somewhere we want to define solidarity, and somewhere we do not expect it, and somewhere we will have a negative effect, that is pure rhetoric. We all know where we are in this trial. Each budgetary debate on the new framework, on the annual budget, is exactly the same. Of course we all want solidarity. Only this solidarity has a certain face, this solidarity has a certain framework, this solidarity also has certain boundaries, and they are, I would say, quite narrowly defined. These aren't boundaries that are very comfortable. They can get sore sometimes. We all know that because we haven't been in the Union in a year, right? If effective solidarity is a dead document today, it means that we have a political crisis on a large scale, it means that someone in this Chamber will also have to take responsibility for the fact that thousands of people we do not want to see in Poland from a transnational level. This is a serious problem. It seems to me that it is a simple recipe for a political crisis, a serious political crisis, to pursue migration and exit policy in isolation from the public. I do not know if this crisis will affect everyone to the same extent, but it could be a very serious shock on the political stage. For the sake of Europe, it would be better for us to make such decisions on the basis of consensus, on the basis of what we can do. I don't want to discuss whether the Italians should or shouldn't, whether the Greeks should or shouldn't be able to do what they can. They have to decide what they can do, what they want. I am not going to be someone who gives good advice because, as Oscar Wilde said, there is nothing worse than giving advice, and especially good advice. I expect the same from the other side. Let's figure out what we can do together, and let's face it, we can't do everything together. In particular, given the fact that we can do very, very many very effective things together. I move on to the answer to the question about the European Border Guard. Poland has not only paved the way for this regulation to be adopted quickly and effectively. Poland has corrected this regulation at one delicate point, where it was about the consent of the Member States to the presence of others, strangers, other border crossing points on their own borders, but we did so very quickly and very effectively. That's not all. Poland is carrying out humanitarian projects not related to 10, this is a unfortunate case, to be honest, the state seems to admit that this is a really unfortunate case of post-truth, what was happening around these 10. I don't want to go through with it, because it made me feel like the worst thing, like somebody thought it was possible to treat human tragedy instrumentally, but let's just leave it at that. [[Let's leave it.]] Poland does not help 10, but 10 thousand. persons in the region. This situation will not change since helping 10 people. Unfortunately, it will not change from helping 10,000. people, that is why we are committed to all EU action, humanitarian on the ground. The Polish contribution to the development fund, to the humanitarian funds of the European Union is not trivial, the state can check it in the budget. Those aren't pennies. This is a very serious contribution. [[But don't block the government's actions.]] The additional money that comes from the Polish budget is twice as much as it has been so far. Moreover, our contribution to the Turkish Fund is counted in tens of millions, so I really do not want to hear not only abroad, but also here that Poland does not behave in solidarity. Poland acts jointly and severally. [[Applause]] Honestly, it is not in the interests of the opposition to create such charades, because the state only unnecessarily creates an impression that is actually extremely unfair. If Poland had not acted in solidarity, we would not have broken our finger on this matter, because this crisis does not affect us directly. We do it out of goodwill, out of a sense of solidarity. This is how we show solidarity and we expect this solidarity to be appreciated. Research and development, this is the area over which Minister Gowin is more in control. I will try to provide a written reply on what is happening in this area. Initiatives. I mentioned Moldova, Mrs Tomaszewska mentioned what was happening in Moldova. As far as conflicts concerning parental care are concerned, this is clearly a matter of national law. This practice can be flagrant from the point of view of standards, mutual protection of human rights, which is why it goes to Strasbourg on the basis of the European Charter of Human Rights. The role of the European Union here is very, very secondary, not really perceived in terms of citizens' initiatives, let's say, such a strong citizens' resonance. I think that of course these are all very important things, that today in the Union we can lower roaming rates, we can release data, we can do things that have a direct impact on public services, on the availability of these services, prices, etc. These are of course very important things, but we will not be able to defend the European Union with such initiatives against doubts that are born in very different countries. Do not hope that an efficient information campaign about the fact that roaming is lower, will stop people worrying about what trade looks like, what the possibility of economic development in the Union looks like, and these things are directly dependent on the shape of the common market. That is why we consider the single market to be a central element of our EU agenda. This is a communication problem, because the common market is a key merit of the European Union, a ground for integration, which is unfortunately invisible. This can't be photographed. We live, we breathe the air of the common market, our companies, our economy is growing faster thanks to the common market, but this is the credit that is unfortunately elusive. We can use alternative economic or macroeconomic models for the development of the Polish economy without a common market. I don't think anyone cares because these are alternative stories that don't attract attention, they're not reliable. But certainly the motorway rates will never be released from the hands of the Member States, because they are closely linked to the way road construction is financed. Similarly, it is difficult to imagine that the European Union, or anyone else, would affect the level of prices at bars at airports, I think that this issue will not be of interest to the Union. As far as tourism is concerned, this issue is of Union interest and there are indications that it may be difficult, because the Union, in terms of improving the quality or safety of these services, will rather create barriers to entry, linked to fees for guarantee funds and other licensing arrangements, but I do not want to jinx it. Maybe it won't go that confrontationally. The question is whether Donald Tusk asked the Polish government for support. No, he didn't. I don't know how to judge how far-reaching the consequences can be drawn from this, but I can answer simple questions in a very simple way. As regards the Visegrad Group, in particular Hungary and Russia's policy, I think it is very damaging to the understanding of international relations, but also to the EU, to try to find such a tone that would be very white and black. Unfortunately or stetha, but it's very rare that something is so clear. With regard to relations or politics, relations with Russia of some Visegrad Group countries, I can say one thing: he is diverse, but this in no way affects the unity of the European Union, which is our expectation. I can assure you that, in particular, lately, Prime Minister Beata Szydło has put this issue before the Malta summit because it was the day after Vladimir Putin's visit to Budapest, and we have obtained another time - but I think it is important to go back to it - one important declaration: none of the Visegrad Group countries will ever submit a request to withdraw from the sanctions policy. Unfortunately, however, it cannot be excluded that other countries, which you recommended as those with which we should have a much closer relationship, will submit such proposals after the elections. So please think about how to calibrate these recommendations, because those countries that you have strongly recommended as something especially neglected - although not on the Polish side this negligence has happened - are much more likely as those who apply to withdraw from the sanctions regime. It won't be Hungary. Moreover, we have a mutual commitment that if such a proposal falls, then certainly the countries of the region, perhaps even wider than the Visegrad Group, will consult and try to coordinate their policies on this matter, because it does not have to be as clear as yes or no. Besides, it's not the only thing that's been raised that's not so clear. As far as the Polish commitment to the migration crisis is concerned, as I have already mentioned, we are present, the Polish Border Guard, the police are present at very many sections of the external border of the Union, which are not the Polish external border of the Union. And that is also an expression of solidarity. This happened very quickly, I think Poland is above average involved in so-called aid. technical, so not only money, not only humanitarian projects of its own or EU, but also assistance in this area. There is a Polish-German school project in Lebanon, humanitarian projects are being carried out in Jordan, so I think we have nothing to be ashamed of. I think that we should really reject the tone more strongly, that Central Europe, and in particular Poland, behaves unsolidarly in this matter. We simply understand solidarity differently, and I think we have the right to understand solidarity differently, to simply set the limits of our solidarity in our own way. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] To sum up, I think it was, of course, a very difficult time for the Union - that is truism. We all know what situation we are in, and this six months is not an exception, this is a very difficult time for the Union at all. I can only say that Slovakia has shown how to deal with EU issues so that as many countries as possible... I think that all countries were comfortable in the Union, which is important because today is not a rule again. Not all countries and do not always feel quite comfortable. I think that a lot has been done during the Slovak Presidency to make everyone feel comfortable, including Poland, and I am grateful for that. As for the low attendance in this Chamber, this is a subject that keeps coming back, not only during the debates about the Union, as you probably know better than I do. I'll try to understand that as a belief that things are going in the right direction, [[Applause]] they are well cared for and therefore do not require excessive debates. [[Shall we go now?]] And I agree with that diagnosis, of course. Thank you very much for your kind words. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u176	Thank you, Minister. Would Mrs Isabela Kloc like to speak? There is no Member. In that case, the discussion is closed. I propose that the Sejm immediately proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of the draft resolution? No one's checking in. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution at the next session of the Sejm. I'm ordering a five-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 minutes 02 hours 16 min 10]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed to the examination of item 25 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the metropolitan union in the Śląskie voivodship (Print No 1211). I ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr. Tomasz Zdzikot to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u177	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour and pleasure to present the government bill on the metropolitan union in the Śląskie voivodship. It is indeed an honor and a pleasure, because the law enjoys the support, recognition of local authorities, inhabitants of Upper Silesia. It is not only strictly declarative support, but it has also found its more tangible expression in the letters addressed to the Prime Minister Beata Szydło, to Minister Mariusz Błaszczak, who was placed in the hands of the Silesian voivode present here with me today. If you would allow me to begin with the presentation, I would like to recall fragments of these writings, because they actually reflect the atmosphere in which we are proceeding with this bill. The Silesian Association of Municipalities and Districts writes to the Prime Minister Beata Szydło in the following words: On behalf of the local governments of the Silesian voivodeship, who are strongly interested in the formation of the metropolitan union, we ask kindly for further government involvement in legislative work. We count on this work to be carried out vigorously and the law to enter into force quickly, which would allow the creation of a metropolitan union in 2017 and the start of the implementation of tasks from 1 January 2018 in line with the previously agreed assumptions. In a letter addressed to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, Mariusz Błaszczak, the Upper Silesian Metropolitan Union, writes as follows: On behalf of the city presidents on the rights of the Upper Silesian Metropolitan Union and local authorities interested in attending the future metropolitan area, I thank you for carrying out preparatory work on the part of the Polish Government. Counting on the favour of parliamentarians, we declare the support of the Śląskie voivodship for the law allowing the actions of the municipalities from Upper Silesia and Zagłębie which form a metropolitan area and commitment to the implementation of the provisions of the law. With respect, Małgorzata Mańka-Szulik. Ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed an important undertaking, it is an important act, a bill expected. So much for entry. Let me give you a little more detail on the proposed solution. The government bill on the metropolitan union in the Silesian Voivodeship responds to the need to improve the operation of agglomerations in the Upper Silesia area, which also expressed cities associated with the Upper Silesia Metropolitan Union after the entry into force of the metropolitan union law of 9 October 2015. However, it is not possible to establish a metropolitan relationship under the 2015 Act, as the rules introduced in autumn 2015 contain several significant deficiencies preventing the effective establishment of such a relationship and which may hinder the activities of its bodies. Today we present to the Sejm a draft law that eliminates these shortcomings. The most important reservations about the rules in force today relate to the way the boundaries of metropolitan areas are defined, since the statutory guidelines are not clear and a more than threefold the number of municipalities can be determined on the basis of which cooperation is actually concerned. The issue of the smooth taking over of public tasks by the metropolitan union has also not been sufficiently addressed. The provisions relating to the functioning of the board of directors of the association, starting with its size and the mode of selection, are not fully considered. The new rules are intended to enable not only the effective creation of a metropolitan union but also the ability to carry out public tasks that are crucial to citizens. The fundamental change, and this is what I was talking about at the outset, is the dedication of the law to the Silesian agglomeration and the repeal of the law on metropolitan unions. The Upper Silesian Metropolitan Area is one of the best-developed functional areas in our country, where the available forms of cooperation between local governments are successfully used. However, there is a lack of scope for development and coordination of public tasks based on inter-communal links. In view of the need to ensure the sustainable development of the remaining smaller functional areas, e.g. around marginalised urban centres today, it is desirable to develop complementary tools in this area. At present, solutions for further smaller centres, smaller functional areas shaped around cities, taking into account the experience of the implementation and validity of the law, which we are investigating today, over which we are starting the process, will be able to appear in the future after carrying out appropriate analyses. However, it should be noted that solutions for the remaining smaller functional areas need not be so-called. Set the metropolitans. It is important here to clarify the instruments addressed to individual centres. In this respect, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration cooperates and dialogues with the Ministry of Development. I think that the evaluation of the provisions of this law after its adoption by Parliament and the President's signature will allow such solutions to be proposed. High Seym! The project submitted in the basic body layer is based on the solutions of the metropolitan union law, while, as I pointed out at the outset, it eliminates its disadvantages. In addition, I would like to stress that the project was prepared in cooperation with Silesian local authorities, which is probably also reflected in the positions which I had the pleasure to present today, with the Upper Silesian Metropolitan Union and the communication association of the Upper Silesian industrial area and gained their acceptance. I will now present the most important differences between the government bill - the Śląskie Metropolis Act - and the 2015 metropolitan union law. These include, in particular, the definition of the boundaries of metropolitan areas and the creation of metropolitan unions. According to the Act in force today, the delimitation of metropolitan areas, i.e. the definition of their borders, is crucial for the creation of metropolitan unions, as only metropolitan communities can apply for the creation of a metropolitan union. In fact, the guidelines in the Act on Delimitation lead to irrational conclusions. According to the criteria laid down in the land spatial concept, which should be taken into account when delimiting metropolitan areas, the number of municipalities forming the Upper Silesian metropolitan area oscillates around 80 and almost three times the number of municipalities actually interested in cooperation. The Upper Silesian Metropolitan Union currently has 14 communes of members, while the Communication Communal Union of Upper Silesian Industrial District - 29 members. According to the current law, the metropolitan union must extend its scope to all municipalities in the metropolitan area. The same passage points to the inadequacy of the proposed solutions to the specifics of, for example, the agglomeration of the Silesian metropolis. For these reasons, it is envisaged that the Delimitation Regulation, which defines the boundaries of the metropolitan area, should be discontinued. The changes will simplify and speed up the process of establishing a metropolitan relationship. In return, it is proposed that the Council of Ministers establish a union and establish its limits. Regulations establishing a metropolitan union and establishing its borders will be issued at the request of the Minister responsible for public administration. The Minister's proposal will be drawn up on the basis of a proposal from the City Council of Katowice, and the President of the City of Katowice will be a proxy for the creation of a union. This proposal stems from the fact that the city of Katowice is the only municipality listed directly by the law which will be part of the metropolitan union. This particular role of Katowice corresponds to the expectations of cities associated with the Upper Silesian Metropolitan Union. The draft assumes that the regulation establishing a metropolitan union will be issued no later than 31 March. The relationship will be established on 1 July and the performance of tasks and revenue will take place from 1 January. It is likely that these deadlines will need to be amended in the course of further parliamentary work. I would like to point out that, in my view, the creation of a metropolitan area on 1 July is not at risk, and I hope that in the course of Parliament's work, technical terms will be able to be adapted to the current stage of legislative work. [[Applause]] The procedure for establishing a relationship requires inter alia. consultation with municipalities and local government of the voivodship and voivodship. The time limit for the opinion shall be 3 months. A relationship may be established in the case of consent of at least 70% municipalities whose area is to be within the limits of the metropolitan union. At least 2 million inhabitants will live in the union. It can be assumed that the metropolitan union in the Śląskie voivodship will cover 14 and 29 municipalities, which corresponds to the size of the Upper Silesian Metropolitan Union and the Communication Union of the Upper Silesian Industrial District. The law will not allow the possibility of leaving the union. In order to change borders, it will be necessary to have a positive opinion of the assembly of the metropolitan union and of the council of the municipalities or acceding municipalities. Revenue - it's important. The income of the association will represent a 5% share of the tax on PIT. In the year in which the metropolitan union will be established, the share of PIT will be 0,2%. The income of the association will also be municipal contributions of 0,1% participation in PIT in the year in which the relationship was established and 0,5% participation in PIT in the following years. In the year in which the relationship will be established, it will receive approximately PLN 10 million from the state budget, while in the framework of the contributions of the municipalities - about PLN 5 million. In the following years, however, the revenue associated with the state budget will amount to approximately PLN 270 million and from contributions - PLN 7 million. The performance of tasks by a metropolitan union. Here, too, I will show the difference between the 2015 Act and the one that is being processed today. The 2015 Act provides for the transfer of municipal and district tasks in the field of public collective transport to a metropolitan union. On the date of establishment of the metropolitan union, without any transitional period, the municipalities of the metropolitan union will lose the right to carry out collective transport tasks. The metropolitan union law does not contain any regulation that allows for the smooth acquisition by the metropolitan union of tasks and property, as well as guaranteeing the sustainability of projects carried out by European funds. As a consequence, the legal capacity to carry out these tasks will also be lost to the entities to whom the municipalities entrusted these tasks. In the Upper Silesian agglomeration, these tasks are carried out by the Communication Communal Union of the Upper Silesian Industrial District and other entities with different legal status: the budgetary unit, the limited liability company, the inter-central union. The absence of the legislation indicated at the outset therefore prevents the introduction of tasks and their continuous exercise in an undistorted manner. The government bill, which I have the honour to present, clearly directs the link to the implementation of the promotional and integration tasks. In view of the relationship, it will be able to take over municipal tasks on the basis of voluntary agreements. However, the advantage of this model is to focus on the socio-economic development of the relationship, the development of transport, its coordination and the reduction of risks associated with the decommissioning and transformation of existing transport operators. The proposed model allows for the evolutionary transformation of the relationship on the basis of agreements into a transport organizer or realizer of other tasks throughout the area. A light structure can also encourage more local governments to participate in a relationship. The most important features of the model. In the area of public collective transport, the main statutory task of the relationship will be the planning, coordination, integration and development of public collective transport, including road, rail and other rail transport, as well as the tasks of sustainable urban mobility and metropolitan passenger transport. Secondly, the union will not deprive the municipalities of transport tasks by virtue of the law, which will result in the removal or transformation of the Communist Union of Upper Silesian Industrial District and other carriers. Thirdly, the association will act as a transport organizer in the field of metropolitan transport, which are a new category of transport, different from municipal, district or voivodeship. In this respect, it will be able to develop new rail or road connections with a range important for the entire metropolitan area. The metropolitan union will be able to act as transport organiser for municipal tasks only on the basis of agreements with local government units and associations of such entities. The Union will adopt a transport plan in force in the area of the union, i.e. municipalities and inter-communal relationships. The government project contains legal solutions that will allow continuity in the performance of public tasks and guarantee the succession of rights and obligations, which is particularly important for the preservation of the so-called. sustainability of European projects. Democratic procedures for transforming individuals have also been limited. The functioning of the organs of the metropolitan union. Here, too, there is a significant difference, a difference that improves, teaches how to process within this newly created structure. The law in force assumes that the assembly of the metropolitan union consists of two representatives of each local government unit, i.e. municipalities and powiats, one representing the executive body and the other representing the body. In accordance with the provisions of the 2015 Act, only unanimity of delegates will result in voting for or against. If it is not available, the local government unit concerned shall be deemed to abstain. In fact, this solution may make it difficult for the assembly to decide. This risk further strengthens the size of the body, which with the maximum reach of the metropolitan union can count more than 160 delegates, and the requirement to obtain a double majority understood as the majority of the local government units represented in the assembly, which in addition translates into the majority of the population living in this area. The above-mentioned rule of decision by the Assembly has not been consistently implemented in the law. Its provisions assume that the election of the Chairman of the Management Board and the discharge will be followed by an absolute majority of the statutory composition of the Assembly and a decision on the appeal of the Management Board by a majority of 3/5 votes of the statutory composition of the Assembly. This means that a coalition able to select a board of directors may not be able to vote in the assembly by a double majority key to the union of resolutions. Representing fewer inhabitants, but more numbers in the assembly of local governments can therefore decide on the existence and composition of the executive body. In addition, the Act provides that voting on matters relating to the proceedings of the Assembly shall be decided by a simple majority. This provision therefore provides an opportunity for quite easy changes to the agenda of the assembly. It is worth recalling that the norm in local government law is to decide on changing the agenda by an absolute majority of the statutory composition of the body. Under certain conditions, the management of the metropolitan union may be unable to act. According to the law in force, the board of directors of the union shall have three members, and its resolutions shall be adopted by a simple majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory composition. This means that in the absence of one of the members of the Management Board, e.g. as a result of illness, the board may not be able to adopt a resolution. The government project eliminates these shortcomings of the law, proposing that the assembly be limited to one representative from each municipality and that a double majority be applied to all decisions of the assembly. In addition, with regard to the Management Board, it is proposed that the management board of the metropolitan union should be composed of five members, as is the case with the Regional Government Act. The proposal also contains a number of minor changes that address the legislative shortcomings of the current law. They relate, among other things, to them. for the acquisition of property by a union, the provision of assistance to local government units and their associations, the size of the audit committee. High Seym! In presenting the government bill on the metropolitan union in the Silesian Voivodeship and in complying with requests, postulates, letters and addresses addressed to the government by the Silesian local government, I ask kindly not only to accept this project but also to give it a high priority. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u178	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. There you go, Mr. Jerzy Polkaczek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the government draft law on the metropolitan union in the Śląskie voivodship. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to stress that for the first time the principles of the law were developed almost 10 years ago in a dialogue conducted under the auspices of the then MMSWiA with local authorities and experts. They were adopted at the last meeting of the Government of Law and Justice in 2007. The next government, after the 2007 elections, rejected these assumptions, seeking at all costs to work out, in quotes, its own and necessarily another project. As a result, 8 years were wasted, and before the elections in 2015 alone, a law was prepared and adopted in a hurry, which by experts in line with this opinion was impossible and required numerous and serious amendments. Directed to the Sejm, the government project discussed today is repealing the 2015 Act, on which several fundamental shortcomings have just been highlighted by the Minister. What is worth recalling in today's debate on the bill? First of all, that local authorities in Silesia are prepared, and the concept, shape and documentation necessary for the formation of a metropolitan union are practically ready. A prominent government project for Silesia, Prime Minister Beata Szydło, is a systemic proposal for Silesian local governments, which responds to the need to improve the management of the area of a huge but administratively distributed agglomeration. This is a condition for accelerating the development of the central subregion of the Silesian Voivodeship, and it is a community of over 2 million inhabitants. The need to establish a metropolitan union in the Śląskie voivodship understands local environments, including leading economists and sociologists, lawyers, experts and practitioners in the field of regional management and development, who have been demanding such legal solutions for years. In this area of more than 2 million agglomerations of the future metropolitan union there is virtually no three-stage self-government structure, because almost all cities are powiats. The level of the voivodship is above the level of the municipalities of Grodzki district. Due to the lack of instruments for coordination, integration of development policies in neighbouring cities, there have been and have persisted for years gross disparities in the level of investment, unemployment and level and quality of life. The metropolitan union established under this law in the Silesian Voivodeship aims to balance development throughout the region of Silesian-Załęgian conurbation and reduce disparities between rapidly developing growth leaders, especially Katowice and Gliwice, and cities which, despite close proximity, develop incomparably slower, to the detriment of residents and the entire region. Instruments improving the management of the agglomeration are a rational and expected response to the huge and specific problems of the region, whose long-term disregard gives rise to resensions and provides a medium for formulation of recipes not only false, but even sometimes harmful, as longing for a return to a time which is clearly understood and interpreted, in quotes, the autonomy of the voivodship in the period of the Second Republic. The set of instruments contained in the draft law facilitating the management of the area of several cities is adapted to the special situation of the urban and administrative area of the Silesian conurbation, therefore the expectations that the same instruments should serve, in quotes, the metropolitanization of other urban centres in Poland are a misunderstanding. They generally have a centralised structure, with a large central city surrounded by small municipalities forming the facilities. For such a structure, solutions other than those of a dozen or so bordering cities of comparable size are needed. Therefore, it is more rational than passing a law for all urban centres to adopt a law dedicated to the area of parts of the cities of Upper Silesia and Zagłębia, and later, possibly, to develop separate solutions adapted to other regions, which are likely to be partially convergent and partly different from those which are suitable for managing the Silesian conurbation. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Metropolitan solutions are the subject of a long-standing and broad consensus - from local authorities, through expert, academic, voivodship commission of social dialogue, employers, trade unions, to the Church in Silesia, which in its social teaching, and worth mentioning it, encourages the development of self-government using the possibilities of individual proposals which respect the historical and cultural specificities of individual regions of Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal, if I could have another half a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u180	Go ahead and finish it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u181	Last year, a public consultation was held in most municipalities in the area of the planned union, which showed...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u182	I apologize, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u183	...doubtlessly overwhelming support of the inhabitants for its creation. The government bill on the metropolitan union in the Śląskie voivodship is a political proposal to cooperate in the future of cities forming a metropolitan union, is an opening...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u184	And thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u185	...try to develop it, and above all, an example of a concrete policy...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u186	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u187	...which is an adequate response to challenges that can contribute to the community's role over... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u188	Thank you, sir. Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u189	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today, it should be recalled that the Sejm of the previous term of office passed a law on metropolitan relationships, which entered into force on 1 January 2016. The law allowed local governments to create metropolises in all metropolitan areas in Poland. In fact, it can be said that after 25 years of discussion, the presentation of many often mutually exclusive proposals, and certainly very difficult work in committees in the previous term of office, finally managed to determine the shape of Polish metropolitan areas. In fact, the new government in this situation has only been subject to the adoption of regulations which were provided for in the Act adopted in the previous term of office. The fact that the law adopted in the previous term of office is good is best demonstrated by the fact that already in the first few weeks of its validity 24 cities in Silesia decided to establish a metropolitan union together. The Councils of 24 cities have adopted resolutions on the fact that they will form a metropolitan union together and will conduct a public consultation on mutual integration and the formation of a metropolitan union. The local authorities assumed that the metropolitan union would be established in the first possible time, i.e. on 1 January 2017. Well, in a public consultation, depending on the city, about 80-90%. the persons participating in them have made their views clear in favour of setting up a metropolitan area. Unfortunately, the Silesian voivode annulled the resolutions of the city councils and also annulled the public consultation. At the same time he announced the adoption of a new law, except that this new law was to be dedicated only to Silesia. PiS politicians assured that the new law would be passed quickly enough to enable local governments to implement their plan so that the metropolis could actually be established on 1 January 2017. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. Due to this confusion associated with the creation of the new law, the region lost PLN 250 million. It is an amount that would remain in Silesia if Silesian local authorities could create a metropolitan union that would be operational as of 1 January 2017. Due to the fact that there will be no metropolis, only in 2017 we lose PLN 250 million. After a few months, Minister Błaszczak presented a new bill. And what did it turn out to be? It turned out that, in fact, the project limited the possibility of creating a metropolis only to Silesia, the procedural rules related to the creation of a metropolitan union were changed, while the rules and functioning of the metropolitan union, which provides for a new law, are in fact the same as those already in force today. It shows that there was really no reason to wait a year to lose a year, start. some new work, because it was peacefully possible, in accordance with the will of these 24 cities, to start working on the creation of a metropolis based on the current rules. High Izbo, the Civic Platform does not agree with the proposed changes, but by reading the government project, we have great satisfaction that no one is questioning the solutions for the metropolis that we have developed in the previous term. The metropolitan union in Silesia will function as we planned when we developed the law on metropolitan relationships. Moreover, not only the government project, but also the modern project concerning the Poznań Metropolitan Union is based precisely on this model, which is provided for in the current law. The Civic Platform in further work in the parliamentary committees will propose changes to the procedures for establishing a metropolitan union, but we will not question solutions regarding the functioning of the metropolitan area, because we have developed these solutions. What should be amended in the Act? Well, first of all, it needs to be restored to its universal character. Limiting the metropolis only and only to Silesia paradoxically will hurt, because in a moment it will turn out, when local governments, parliamentarians will seek new investments, that the basic argument will be that already in Silesia is the law, which is to ensure economic development, to provide additional money. There will be an argument that promotional investments are to be located in other parts of Poland. This is a serious danger we're going to face. There is no doubt that at the beginning the metropolis must arise in Silesia, because in Silesia the awareness of metropolitan integration is most common. It is also worth thanking a few people who have contributed so far to the fact that this awareness is so big. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] Mr. Marshal, please, I'm going to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u190	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u191	The person worth thanking is certainly Tomasz Pietrzykowski, the Silesian Voivode in 2005-2007.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u192	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u193	This man has done a lot to make this consciousness grow. I'm sure we'll also be proposing...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u194	Now, on behalf of the Kukiz Club, 15 will speak...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u195	I'm on my way to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u196	...Mr Tomasz Jaskola.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u197	Literally two sentences, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u198	But you have to be fair, sir. I'm gonna have to turn you off...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u199	I'm sure we'll want to change the rules on the requirement... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ... 2 million inhabitants. I'm sure they'll make it harder to form a metropolitan relationship.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u200	Please, Mr Tomasz Swallowa.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u201	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the club Kukiz I am pleased to present my position towards the new metropolitan law, the Silesian metropolitan law, which we are very pleased with. Of course, we support this law, but of course I would like to draw attention to many aspects of this law. First of all, in my opinion and in my opinion of our club, system solutions are much better than solutions that concern only one voivodship. Although I am a representative of Częstochowa and I hope that when the metropolitan union is established, Częstochowa, according to the promise of Law and Justice, will finally be a separate voivodeship, but I wish the Silesian metropolis well. There is no doubt that system solutions are better. Of course, in the draft metropolitan law of 2015 notified by Law and Justice there are a lot of shortcomings and I, of course, ignore these shortcomings, because this project really does verify certain things. I'll give you a thought. If we go into metropolitan relationships, and this is a very right idea from the point of view of system, development, investment, finally Law and Justice should face probably the most important, it seems to me, the idea of changing the administration of the Polish state and making the liquidation of powiats. This is our request, I hope, for you too. These are bodies, administrative degrees completely unnecessary, pulling out the giant taxpayers' money. But I'm going to start with the shortcomings of this bill, and I hope I can fit in in time. First of all, the influence of citizens on the choice of union authorities in this law is indirect. He's clearly written down, he's intermediate, and it's not always good. Of course, it is understandable that in the first stage he must be like this, but it cannot be imagined that in future local elections such authorities should be elected in direct elections. Nothing stands in the way of that. That is why I conclude that we have such a clear lack of control over the metropolitan union. We do not know the full cost of setting up a metropolitan union, we do not know what the consultation will look like. I hope that these consultations will not look the same as when creating so-called. The great Opole, which is really bigger than Barcelona, and that they will be better. The applicants misdefined the concept of a new municipality. This concept is a legislative mistake, there is the concept of. new municipalities, it should be either.carrying, or seeking access, because it suggests that new primary units, i.e. municipalities, are created and will apply for membership. We do not know at all if bureaucracy in Katowice will increase to service, and it will probably be significant. Now, attention to specific articles. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 13 we have a free transfer of shares in companies, possibly budgetary establishments. I would like to ask if it would be beneficial for the municipalities. In my opinion, no, and the fame of the "free" appeared here. Are there any estimates at all, whether you were counting how many budget establishments or over-the-counter companies would be interested in such a transition to the metropolitan union? I still do not understand why the possibility of creating associations with local self-government units by the metropolitan union. This will strengthen this huge number, because already metropolitan unions are seen as the fourth degree of Polish administration, which is not true, but so unfortunately people perceive them. Art. 29, clear operation. Will the statute of the metropolitan union assume full transparency? Will there finally be a ban on borrowing, over a certain percentage share? Finally, I would like to know a limit on borrowing, so that we do not imagine that the two hundred and tens of millions that the previous speakers spoke about here will simply be lost in commitments in some way. Finally numbers. The state is based on income in a metropolitan relationship on numbers from the CSO. We know that the Central Statistical Office gives excessive figures. So on the basis of what number are we actually going to calculate this PIT yield because I don't know? I do not know if there will be political offices - here I will stop for a second - assistants and advisors. Yesterday, the subcommittee for political offices closed its meeting against the proposal - Mrs Pępek's proposal, the Platform - and surprisingly all parties: Law and Justice, Modern and PSL, voted in favour [[♪ The bell ♪]] To keep political offices alive.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u202	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u203	I'd have a lot more questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u204	Thank you. Mrs Marta Golbik, Modern Club. [[Solid coalition. Solid government coalition.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u205	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We would like to say: we finally have a government project, a government majority project, a project that we are investigating. Given what Mr Poleczek said today, ten years ago this work began. I'm really worried something's gonna slow us down with this bill. Ladies and gentlemen! The Modern Club gives its full support to the idea of establishing a metropolitan union in the Silesian Voivodeship. [[Applause]] We are convinced that the people of the future metropolis will benefit from the changes introduced by the law. Metropolis will become a source of competitive advantage in Europe, integrated spatial management will strengthen the economic functions of the region, integrated promotion activities will enable at least European communication of benefits, for example. with capital placement, and integrated public transport will directly affect quality of life. For the modern idea of a metropolis is an idea of intensive development that is worth supporting. It is also irrelevant to us, by whom this project is submitted: whether by the Platform which speaks about its project, whether by the PiS or by the citizens. It really doesn't matter. [[Voice from the hall: This is a government project.]] The Silesian Voivodeship and the inhabitants of the Silesian Voivodship have been waiting for this project for a long time. Of course, the Modern Club is aware of the conditions surrounding the creation of this law. There is no need for a good eye to see that this is a slightly modified version of the project adopted by the previous Sejm, which was not raised at the time, which led President Duda to sign without notice. However, these comments appeared and were submitted to the new project, despite the entire duration of the previous project, introduced and changed in the right direction without a doubt. The definition of the tasks of the metropolitan area, the elimination of questionable provisions concerning the formation of the metropolitan area by the municipalities, rather than - more generally - the units of the local government, is of fundamental importance, because the doubts related to the interpretation of these issues could paralyze the functioning of the new organism. We also consider it valuable to introduce a start-up period for the metropolis to prepare for full action. The consequences of the establishment of the metropolis have been and are the subject of numerous scientific debates and have been mentioned in the Government's 2030 spatial development concept and have been highlighted in previous speeches. I don't want to repeat that information. We are pleased that we agree on key issues. But it is a kind of paradox, because once again the Sejm achieves consensus on the same issue, but there is still no metropolitan area. Despite the fiery promises, despite bold declarations, the specific deadlines which are persistently shifted by the next months, there are no metropolises. And time is of great importance here, because it is the whole course of consultation, adoption of resolutions, directing to further bodies - that's why I say that time is of great importance. And sometimes this situation seems to be looking for any reason to prevent the formation of a metropolis. Let it not be so that there will be arguments that we have done everything in our power, and they have not made it, whoever we replace and whoever we replace. The Modern Club in further work on the project will propose a revision of the wording imposing the need for a regulation on the establishment of a metropolitan area by 31 March. It is an unjustified obstacle to both sides in this version, but the Minister has already spoken about it, of which I am very pleased. We will vote in favour of the project, in favour of directing it to further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u206	Thank you. Mrs Monica Rosa. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u207	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Creating a metropolitan union in Silesia and Zagłębie was a very, very long and very emotional process. As my previous speaker said, it doesn't matter which party this bill will file. We Silesians, inhabitants of Silesia for this bill just wait. And we would very much like this place to declare that this metropolis will rise again this year, that there will be no redeployment of deadlines, that there will be no failure to issue regulations, that nothing bad will happen along the way. [[The Minister has made it clear.]] [[Voice from the room: 5 months.]] Because what does the metropolis mean to us, the people of the region? Our economic, economic and social potential will increase. These are new investments, we're gonna be more attractive, we're gonna be able to solve cases that are extra-urban, for example. Smog issues - smog does not know the boundaries of cities. We will be able to take better care of public transport. A modern metropolis will arise when public transport is not only driven by low-income people, but above all by the rich will want to move to this transport. It's a question of quality of life, making people in town want to live better. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Live, work. That's why I say trust and cooperation...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u208	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u209	...and a declaration that this year the metropolis will rise. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u210	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party, now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u211	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to present our position on the governmental draft law on the metropolitan union in the Silesian Voivodeship. The project assumes that the newly established metropolitan union is to be an association of the municipalities of the Śląskie voivodship, characterized by strong functional links and the advancement of urbanization processes, located in a spatially coherent area, which lives at least 2 million inhabitants. The Union is to carry out public tasks in the area of spatial governance, social and economic development of the area of association, planning and coordination, integration and development of public collective transport, including road, rail and other rail transport, as well as sustainable urban mobility, metropolitan passenger transport, cooperation in determining the course of national and voivodeship roads in the area of the union and promoting the relationship and its area. In line with the intention of the project, expressed in the explanatory memorandum, it is intended to carry out development, integration and coordination tasks while reducing the risks associated with the decommissioning and transformation of the organisations involved so far. This will enable the adopted model of the union to transform it evolutionaryly on the basis of voluntary agreements on the taking over of municipal, district or voivodeship tasks. The regulation of the Council of Ministers which forms a union is to establish the name, the borders and the seat of its authorities, at the request of the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. They will also be able to join other municipalities from the Śląskie Voivodship without the possibility of appearing. The Act will oblige the municipality to consult with residents on the question of establishing a relationship and establishing its borders, and then in the case of the local authorities concerned - its possible extension. At least 70% consent is required to establish a relationship municipalities from its future area. The application of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration for a Government Regulation will be drawn up on the basis of a proposal from the City Council of Katowice, which is the only municipality of the future union listed directly by the law. Katowice is to have a special role in the process of forming a union - the President of this city will be the proxy for its creation. The Act will give him powers related to the preparation of an organisational and legal relationship. The bodies of the metropolitan union shall be the assembly and the Management Board shall be elected by them. The assembly is to be composed of delegates from the municipalities forming part of the association - one of them each, taking all the decisions using the so-called. Mostly double. The Management Board is to count 5 members and carry out tasks with the help of the metropolitan office. Among the most important sources of funding for the metropolitan union, the Act lists the share of income tax on natural persons residing in its territory and the contributions from its municipalities. The proportion of the relationship in income tax revenues from individuals is to be 5%. High Izbo! Polish People's Party is an advocate of local communities and small homelands. We are, we have often been, expressing this, against the creation of piers in which the inhabitant is anonymous, while the commune with its needs dies in a great impersonal creation. In 2015, we voted against the metropolitan law in the belief that it would pose a threat to smaller municipalities. Just compare what the outskirts of big cities look like and how they are located right next to the suburban community. This comparison is almost always in favour of suburban municipalities. This is because in a smaller unit you can see the needs of the inhabitants better, and the voice and opinion of each citizen means more. But we also do not want this belief to prevent, or at least an attempt, work on a proposal that has been presented by the Council of Ministers. We will continue to look at how the interests of these small municipalities, which will be part of the metropolitan union, will be secured, but we do not close for further work and we are in favour of directing this project. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u212	Thank you very much. And now you have the floor of Mr Stanisław Huskowski, next to the European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to give an opinion on the draft law on the metropolitan union in the Śląskie voivodship. The need for legal regulation on how to solve problems at the borders of large cities and neighbouring cities or municipalities has been known for years. In 2015 - as has already been mentioned many times today - in the autumn, 9 October, the previous parliament passed a law on metropolitan unions, giving many local authorities, but also inhabitants of large cities or suburban areas, or in particular this metropolitan area in the Śląskie voivodship, hope that many problems, both transport and transport, spatial, economic, will be better solved and can be better managed in this enlarged small country. Unfortunately, the bill adopted by the previous Sejm is repealed. Sure, as I know the majority in the courtroom and the voices of the previous speakers, the bill will be passed, but this bill makes me as happy as it concerns me, or rather more concerned. She is of course very good and I am glad that the inhabitants of the Silesian Voivodeship will have a law, a good law that meets their aspirations - so they will be able to create a metropolitan union - but the law, as it has already been said several times, eliminates the universality of the solution and focuses exclusively on the Silesian Voivodeship. Think of the inhabitants, I do not know, Warsaw, Wrocław, Poznań, Tricity etc., who will not have this exclusive bill. The Minister was kind to say, surely in good faith, that he is aware of the aspirations of various other centres or environments that wish to create an environment... [[Voice from the Chamber: But Warsaw may have, Mr.]] ...which would like to create metropolises, and that such laws would be possible, but they would require deep analysis. Significantly, it ended with the fact that these analyses will not always end in the creation of a metropolitan relationship. At this point I wanted to stop because, knowing the policy of Law and Justice and the Council of Ministers of Law and Justice, I would like to draw attention to two other solutions that have recently been proposed instead of a metropolitan union. One is a jump to Warsaw and an attempt to create a great Warsaw, to enlarge the capital, which is a substitute for another solution to the problem of the Warsaw metropolis, in a scandalous way, without consultation, without referendums, without consensus of the municipalities, without any votes, etc., with the breaking of democracy. Another example: The Council of Ministers was kind a few months ago to enlarge the borders of Opole. There, too, was not considered a metropolitan law, to possibly give Opole such opportunities, only after being considered, maybe it was russicism, but after being considered, the parts of the neighbouring municipalities to Opole were cut off in a scandalous way. If these words of the Minister are to mean that instead of a universal law, in a universal way that gives criteria and solves the problem throughout Poland, there will be partial actions of Law and Justice, it will end as in Warsaw and Opole. So the joy of the inhabitants of the Silesian Voivodeship... Really, let's go too. The Silesians are aware of what awaits Poland after the adoption of this law. However, given the enormous expectations and progress of the work in Silesia, of course, our circle, near the European Union of Democrats, will support action to adopt this law, but very much trying to expand this law also to include other unions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and give other cities and surroundings the opportunity to create a metropolis. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u214	Thank you very much. Mr Ireneusz Gaina, near Free and Solidarnia, now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u215	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law on the metropolitan union in the Silesian Voivodeship, print no. 1211. Upper Silesia has been waiting for this bill for at least 10 years. I'd like to say, finally. The metropolitan law is intended for Śląskie communes with strong functional links and advanced urbanization processes, located in a spatially consistent area that has more than 2 million inhabitants. Whoever was in Upper Silesia must be aware of how highly urbanized these areas are. Individual cities connect so closely that it is difficult to find the border between them. The absence of a metropolitan law has long been detrimental to the development of this agglomeration. To remind you that the Civic Platform promised a metropolitan area by two terms of office during which it held power in Poland. During the 2011 parliamentary campaign, the civil platform politicians even promised that the bill would be passed 100 days after the elections... [[And it was passed.]] ...in 100 days after the election. The Member will speak in a moment, now me. Thank you. Unfortunately, High Izbo, the project designer for four years... [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, I can't continue my speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u216	But don't disturb me, ladies and gentlemen. I'm gonna have to extend it to you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u217	Unfortunately, for four years project promoters could not count on the favour of the most important politicians in the government and their party. They had more important things to do. The law was adopted at the penultimate sitting of the VII-term Sejm at the penultimate sitting. [[So what?]] After the presidential election, even the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda signed the bill, but it soon became clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the law by the Polish Republic was badly underdeveloped. The new law proposed by the government by Prime Minister Beata Szydło corrects the shortcomings of previous legislation. The bill concerns the area of the Silesian Voivodeship. In my opinion, this is one of two places in Poland, which, due to the population, focus functional links and the advanced urbanization processes of municipalities located in a spatially coherent area, naturally pretend to be a metropolis. The second, or perhaps even the first, because of the capital functions, is the area of the Warsaw metropolis. The adoption, I hope, of laws concerning these two metropolises, in the first place concerning the Silesian metropolis and in the near future of the Warsaw metropolis, is also of great importance because of the sustainable development policy pursued by the government of the Republic of Poland. Changes in relation to the previous metropolitan law concern among others. the process of establishing the boundaries of the metropolitan area, the way in which decisions are taken on behalf of the whole association, the management and taking over of assets and the tasks of the municipalities concerned. The solutions adopted in the proposal for a law for Upper Silesia submitted by the High House ensure the smooth management of the metropolitan area and the smooth implementation of investments financed by European funds. As I mentioned, the bill is very expected in Upper Silesia and has been positively assessed by the municipalities of the Silesian Voivodeship. Given the extent of the metropolitan union's operation, it should be assumed that its creation may constitute a breach of barriers to development. By means of spatial planning, collective transport or road management competences, these areas will be able to develop in a coordinated and coherent manner to the benefit of their inhabitants. Let me express my conviction that, in line with the expectations of the Silesian community on the side of the Council of Ministers, there will be no shortage of determination that the metropolitan union of the Silesian voivodship should be established in 2017. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle support the draft of this long-awaited law in Upper Silesia, which will naturally free itself from the limitations of the current state of management and enter a higher level of development of the civilization Silesian agglomeration. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u218	Thank you very much. 14 ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting time for a question for one minute. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak. There's no envoy. Mrs Danuta Pietraszewska from the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome. [[Two minutes, why one minute?]] One minute. [[How much?]] [[Two.]] One minute. [[One minute?]] [[Two.]] [[It's an important subject.]] Where? Friday afternoon... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the hall: Where are you in a hurry, Marshal?]] I'm in no hurry... [[Well, that's two.]] ...you're in a hurry. One and a half, yeah. [[Applause]] [[Well done, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u219	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The metropolitan law entered into force in January 2016. Silesia was to receive PLN 250 million for development. He didn't get it. The Civic Platform has prepared a very good, universal metropolitan law voted by the Sejm, the Senate, signed by President Duda. You have blocked the introduction of this law by the lack of implementing acts that you have not been able to prepare for a year. You were messing with the bill, which results in an inept plagiarism, which you are now talking about, after several dozen commas, making a few changes, as your, i.e. PiS-owska, metropolitan law. Changes made by you, e.g. 2 million as a threshold for the population of the metropolitan area - if one city only withdraws, then this law will not be able to be implemented - or short time limits for the opinion of this law by the municipalities - will remain for 2 and 3 weeks - they can [[♪ The bell ♪]] block the implementation of this law. Minister, I'm asking with concern if there'll be any further obstacles that won't allow for the second time...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u220	Madame, one and a half minutes has passed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u221	... Silesia receives PLN 250 million for development. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u222	The question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u223	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Silesian cities have been seeking a metropolitan bill for many years. It is intended to improve the management of several million city teams in the Upper Silesian Industrial District. The Metropolis will provide the opportunity to shape spatial governance together and work on common public communication. It is sad that President Andrzej Duda has already signed a law on this matter, adopted by the Sejm in 2015, which has already entered into force in 2016. I repeat myself as a fellow Member. According to the Civic Platform Act and the Government of Law and Justice, the metropolitan area was to start and be financed from 1 January 2017, but there was no further goodwill and regulations to the law so that the metropolitan area could start functioning. The truth is that Silesia lost PLN 250 million because of it. Mr. Voivode, I don't know why you're out there being so funny and funny because you're still happy. I'm watching you here from the Parliamentary Jury. This project complicates the creation of the Silesian metropolis. Now we have March 31st as an unrealistic deadline for issuing a regulation establishing a relationship. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Regulation is to be issued on request, preceded by consultations, hence the risk of failure to comply with the deadline.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u224	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u225	I just wanted to ask you...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u226	Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u227	You're very kind, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u228	It was a minute and a half at your request. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u229	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Metropolises are centres of growth and innovation in the country. The law passed by the Civic Platform on metropolitan unions entered into force on 1 January 2016, but is practically dead because the current government has not yet issued any of the necessary regulations. The government's omissions are so incomprehensible that although the bill was prepared by the Civic Platform, President Andrzej Duda concluded the case. But no! We must destroy what the Platform has done, even when it is good enough that you have practically duplicated our bill, but only for the Silesian metropolis. I said, what about the rest of the country? For example, what about the tri-city metropolis that we have been seeking for a long time? The local government of Gdansk-Gdynia-Sopot Metropolitan Area unanimously decided to create a metropolis. I hope that with equal determination as you aim to create the Silesian metropolis, you will also support our efforts to create the Tri-City metropolis. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u230	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the club... There's no envoy. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u231	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The metropolitan law prepared by the Civic Platform and passed by the previous Sejm was signed in 2015 by President Andrzej Duda. However, the Government of Law and Justice did not issue regulations and a metropolis in Silesia and was not established in Zagłębie. Sitting in government benches today, Silesian voivode Mr. Jarosław Wieczorek declared in April 2016 that on the basis of the new law of the PiS metropolis will be established from 1 January 2017. Today, 10 February 2017, we know that these were empty promises, and we must remember about the fact that each year of delay in starting the metropolis is PLN 250 million, which passes to cities of Silesia and Zagłębie near the nose. Question, Minister: Is the deadline in the law, or 31 March, for a regulation to run a metropolitan area real in order to manage the legislative work in the Sejm and so that the municipalities of the Silesian metropolitan area can carry out a public consultation and adopt appropriate resolutions? And whether to raise the threshold of 500,000. residents, which is in the current law proposed by the Civic Platform, up to 2 million inhabitants with the simultaneous provision of Article. Paragraph 7 4 a law which requires a positive opinion of the municipalities' councils at least 70% Doesn't the communes pose a threat that this metropolis might not arise? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u232	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Król from the Civic Platform now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u233	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would also like to ask you a question about this date on 31 March. The Minister has also mentioned this. If this date had remained, it would, of course, have prevented the Silesian metropolis from operating on 1 January 2018. That is why I ask: Can the Minister assure that this deadline will be postponed? I would also like to ask - perhaps your voivodeship, since it is in the plenary room - who will pay back to the local authorities the costs incurred for the public consultation, which will have to be repeated. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u234	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Michał Wójcik, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u235	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We would like to ask at first whether it is true, Minister, that the Civic Platform has pushed through the metropolitan bill, but forgot to finance it, i.e. provide funding for these metropolises in the budget, the operation of the metropolis. And is it true that if the Civic Platform acted just like the Law and Justice and acted over the metropolitan law in the first months of its office, the region, the Śląskie voivodship would not lose 2 billion PLN? Because so much has lost Silesian Voivodeship for about eight years. [[Applause]] But I want to say an important thing and good news for the inhabitants of the Silesian Voivodeship: this is the most important law for the Silesian Voivodeship for 100 years. Why is she so important? Because Silesia today is degraded, demolished in many areas. In one of the most recent rankings, where 272 regions in Europe have been studied, it is the last place in terms of pollution in the region, 256th place in terms of water quality, 250th place in terms of life expectancy and 235rd place in terms of citizens' safety. Metropolis is an opportunity for residents. These are new investments, these are money, this is a higher quality of life. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u236	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Jan Grabiec, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u237	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would like to begin by congratulating the applicants that we have managed to persuade President Kaczyński to support the concept of metropolitan development, the concept of the Platform, which the President has been strongly criticizing over the last few years, many times. It's an important point. I'm glad this project is being presented today. I am also pleased that you have benefited from the project prepared by Members of the Civic Platform, which has also been co-operated by my ministry, the local government, together with this project we have presented to the High House, and we have led to its adoption. The problem is that there is one provision in this project that should be repealed. A recipe that makes you take away a dozen million Poles' chances of a better functioning transport. You take away all the other metropolises, except Silesia, a chance to quickly establish a metropolis. How is transport in Poznań, Szczecin, in Wrocław different from transport in Silesia? Maybe in the color of the trams... [[They're very different.]] ...maybe in the color of trams, but everywhere in Poland people want to drive cheap, on a common ticket, everywhere they want to get to work. [[Where are you from?]] I'm from Warsaw. The inhabitants of Warsaw lose this year, whether next year they will lose, if this year there is no metropolitan area, 700 million PLN for a common ticket. The inhabitants of the rural districts of Podwarszawskie will crowd the streets of Warsaw with their cars, will cause traffic and their possibility [[♪ The bell ♪]] Participation in the Warsaw labour market will be limited.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u238	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u239	If you raise your hand behind this recipe...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u240	Now you are asking Marek Owl a question...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u241	...you will take away millions of Poles' chances of better transport. Thank you very much. [[Do you want the Warsaw metropolis?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u242	...Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u243	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The truth is that you are announcing that the most important document of this government will be a strategy for responsible development. Although she is not accepted, the Prime Minister has serious reservations, she does not meet her expectations. I don't know where. I hope not at this point that concerns the agglomeration, because there is a good diagnosis there. It is said that we lose over PLN 34 billion annually for the transport costs that my previous speaker mentioned. There are also good directions for action. The problem is that if we narrow the agglomeration only to the Silesian agglomeration, we will not fulfil this element and we will not use the largest reserves, because it is simply stated that the largest development reserves have large agglomerations. Therefore, I was convinced that in the speech the Minister would not say that this would apply only to the Silesian area, but I was convinced that he would announce individual agglomerations projects for Krakow, Wrocław, Poznań and Pomerania, because there are also such links there, in the strategy you have this directly entered. It is not true that we are to narrow it down only to urban centres. We read in the Strategy for Responsible Development: In order to better coordinate it is necessary to create incentives for sustainable cooperation between local authorities in the area [[♪ The bell ♪]] functional agglomerations consisting of urban centres and rural areas. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u244	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Polaczek, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u245	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I agree with the opinion of Minister Wójcik that the government, when submitting a draft law on the metropolitan system for the Silesian province, essentially proposes the most important solution for this part of Poland since 1920, of course then in completely different historical conditions. I think that this also emphasizes the importance of this only metropolitan area in Poland, where the discussion in this matter has been going on for 20 years and is covered, as I stressed in my speech, by the consensus of all political and academic backgrounds, especially with the participation of local governments. I would like to refer to this part of the Minister's speech, in which he has already signalled an adjustment resulting from the content of the project so far, here I am talking about the article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, which states that the regulation establishing a metropolitan union shall be issued no later than 31 March. Should the Minister possibly be able to signal on behalf of the Government, if the government would be willing to postpone this deadline in order to keep both the start of the procedure for establishing the union from 1 July and the start of it from 2018, [[♪ The bell ♪]] from 1 January. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u246	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Marek Wójcik, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister, don't be surprised by our distrust of the government's real intentions, because, firstly, the Government, the Council of Ministers adopted the bill on 27 September 2016. The project was located in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister for over 3 months and was only sent to the Sejm on 10 January. I'd like to ask the Minister where the delay came from. This delay is contrary to the current standards of sending projects from the Council of Ministers to the Sejm, standards and the current government, and previous governments. Minister, this delay raises our serious doubts. Secondly, I welcome the declaration that the provisions of the article. 8 which say that there is a deadline for issuing a regulation, these provisions will be amended. I'd like to ask what date you're proposing. We'd like this to be the actual date that will allow us to create a metropolis. We propose June 30th. We think it's 100% then. , with these procedures and formalities which you require, Silesian local authorities would be able to prepare a proposal. And maybe this information about Members who were talking about 2 billion. I would like to inform the High House that the rules on the participation of the metropolitan area in PIT, which are to give the metropolitan area 250 million, together with Mr Grabce, have only been invented in summer 2015. I would also like to ask Members who are present today, why, when we adopted this law, [[♪ The bell ♪]] They abstained and did not vote in favour of a solution that really coincides with the law that Law and Justice is proposing at this point in time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u248	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u249	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Abstracting from the political pinches that accompany the discussion on this project, I wanted to point out, first of all, that although I come from a region quite far away from the Silesian metropolis, but - due to family relations and general knowledge - I know that the Silesian metropolis is, yes, very large centres, which are a kind of centers of this metropolis, but also small towns, small municipalities, which belong to these larger centres. And I wanted to ask the Minister directly - the point is to point out the guarantees for these small centres, small municipalities and their residents and to show clearly what will make their autonomy, freedom in shaping this space of small homelands, which these communities constitute, unhindered. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u250	Thank you very much. And the last question is asked by Wojciech Szarama, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u251	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Silesia as a result of 8-year-old, very weak governments, the Platform suffered huge losses. These are not only the 2 billion zlotys connected with the lack of money, the lack of functioning of the metropolis, but also billions of zlotys lost as a result of the growing crisis of the heavy industry, the deepening crisis related to environmental protection. The Government of Law and Justice has been paying particular attention to the Silesian voivodship from the very beginning. A successful reform of mining, one can say, saved by this government by mining. The Silesian province is the largest beneficiary of 500+. Children in the Silesian Voivodeship, in the Silesian agglomeration, received money, thanks to it many, many families, just those who were just mentioned by the PSL Member, could come out of poverty, could start functioning normally, could go to the sea for the first time. We will work on this bill, on improving the fate of Silesians we will work with all determination. But here it is very disturbing what I heard in the courtroom. If this is what the Civic Platform Member said you would be demanding during this appointment of other metropolitan unions, then there may be real problems. [[Voice from the room: What?]] And that's already been heated up in this room today. You're talking about Wroclaw, Kraków, Tricity. It could cause a lot of trouble. So, gentlemen, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Don't block this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u252	Thank you very much. We're done with the questions. Now I would like an answer from the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr. Tomasz Zdzikot. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u253	Dear Marshal, High Seym! I took the liberty of recording both the voices that were cast in the club discussion and the questions. As a general rule, they can be divided into several threads, these threads sounded very intensely. I'll start by saying this is a very good bill. This is a very good law, this is a bill expected, this is a law supported by self-governments, a law which they formally supported, addressing in this respect the appropriate statements by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. Therefore, these are the only arguments in favour of this act as a matter of urgency and for Parliament to adopt it as soon as possible. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, one group of questions that emerged in both club and individual discussions were questions about those deadlines which I allowed myself to define as technical terms. I stress that according to the voivodeship's assurances, according to local authorities already at present the Silesian authorities are ready to proceed with the implementation of the provisions of this law, therefore they write and ask that the law be passed as soon as possible. I believe that the date of entry into force, the date of establishment of the metropolis - July 2017. - he's not in danger. I believe that, during parliamentary work at second reading, it is possible to clarify technical terms in such a way that they meet with the agreement of all interested parties. I believe that this is possible, it is necessary, I have declared it. But then there were a number of questions within this thread. I think he's clear and clear. I don't think he can be clearer. The second thing that trumped very strongly is why now, why so late, why Silesia waited 10 years. Ladies and gentlemen, it is simply that there are many things in Poland that are waiting for a very long time, although objectively almost everyone knows that they have to be dealt with. Somehow it hasn't worked so far, and now it's just gonna work or it's gonna work. I came to the debate in the Sejm - because today I have a day in connection with such matters - with the debate on legislation on counterfeiting and there I learned that the first draft law was created 20 years ago, then it was created 10 years ago, for the Government of Law and Justice in 2005 and now it is 2017 and we are talking about it again, 20 years ago, right? Here, Mr Polakzek spoke about 2007. It's been 10 years, yeah, well, it's 2017, we'll close this year, this bill will. I believe that this bill will be passed by Parliament, and I believe that the President will sign it. It's up to you. If you are asking when the bill will be, first of all, the question is to Parliament, the second question - to local governments. I am convinced that it will work, I am convinced that the metropolitan regulations in Silesia will come into force this year. There were a lot of questions about other city centers. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Grabiec asked how Poznań is different from Upper Silesia. I don't know how to answer that question. [[Communication in Poznan, trams.]] I do not know how to answer this question to the Member who was the Deputy Minister of Administration and Digitisation - the Ministry responsible for the local government. I guess you just have to go to Poznań and Upper Silesia and see what's different about them. [[Applause]] I am convinced, as I said in my speech, that intervention or support measures addressed to different urban centres must be simply different, because the characteristics of Upper Silesia or e.g. The specificity of Warsaw's capital city - this is the only city in Poland that has its law, special law, and it has been for a long time now, the law on the structure of Warsaw's capital city - is simply different from other city centres. There is a strategy for responsible development, this strategy contains a number of support instruments. We said, among other things. with significant support for the ZITs. Support, assistance and solutions must be addressed to the needs of a specific region, city, city centre, and this is what happens, and this will happen. There were a number of more detailed questions, such specific questions were put in the substantive speech by the member of the Kukiz Club. There was a question about the art. 13, which I have noted, for the free transfer of shares in companies. I just wanted to point out that there's an expression of maybe, so it's not a obligation, and the possibility, it's probably important. Rules on transparency - they are explicitly enshrined in the Act in Article. 19. Financial mechanism - Article 52, it appears to be clear, legible, applied. If there is a need for clarification and clarification, a deeper explanation of these issues, I think it will certainly be possible in committee. Ladies and gentlemen, in presenting these explanations, I ask you once again to refer the bill to a further run and, according to the position, to ask the Silesian authorities, the Silesian voivodeship and all Silesians, even though I am a Warsawian myself, for the act to be passed as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum. May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u254	Please, Mr Jan Grabiec, in the correction procedure. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u255	Mr. Marshal! Minister! You misunderstood what I said. I was talking about the fact that transport in Poznań, in Warsaw is no different from transport in Silesia, residents have the same needs, want to get to school, to work thanks to a common ticket, cheap, fast and safe. If there's a problem, Minister, it's most likely on the government's side. Because the problem is probably money. If you do not know what it is about, it is probably about money, the fact that other metropolitan areas in Poland would cost the state budget, according to this project, certainly more than PLN 1 billion, and the project of the minister... not the minister, Mr Sasin does not provide any funding for the Warsaw metropolitan area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-10-sejm-35-3.u256	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law on the metropolitan union in the Silesian Voivodeship to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. On this we exhausted the agenda of the 35th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward and have presented their messages in writing to the minutes. Would any of you and your fellow Members still like to make a statement? No one's checking in. On this we concluded the issue of the Members' statements. (1938). In 2007, he was posthumously promoted to lieutenant status. As part of the action, Katyn... we remember and Katyn... to save from oblivion in Płock was planted with an oak of memory honoring Władysław Sebyła and named after him the streets in Sosnowiec, Kłobuck and Częstochowa. Thank you. (as forecast by PMR Consulting). This concludes the 35th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 36th session of the Sejm, convened on 22nd, 23rd and 24th February 2017, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 17 min 33]]
