ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u1	I open the forty-nineth session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski and Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk to the meeting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the table. I would like to inform you that the Sejm, at its 50th meeting on 27 October 2015, adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Law amending the Law on Press Law, to the Act amending the Act on Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 40th Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr. and Mrs. Senators, draft order... [[Mr. Marshal, there's a call.]] But, Mr. Senator, I'm in session. In what mode?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u2	I'd like to make a formal request. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the hall: Shh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u3	A formal conclusion? [[Yes.]] Can't you report him at the end of my speech? [[Voice from the room: No way.]] [[Depends on what the marshal means. As far as protocol is concerned, that's fine, yes, of course...]] Because we always make proposals for changes in order, voting, etc. [[Mr. Marshal, I'd prefer to present this proposal now...]] A formal conclusion now? [[...on behalf of the Senators of the Civic Platform.]] Well, then, let's introduce... Okay, formal conclusion... You're welcome. It's a formal conclusion, isn't it? A formal proposal can actually be made at any time on the agenda. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u4	Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Mr. Marshal! I would like to see that, as in the Sejm, outside the agenda for the beginning, we get an important gesture and we want to take a moment to reflect on the tragedy that happened on 19 October in front of the Palace of Culture and Science. It's a shocking act that everyone reads in their own way, but certainly... [[This is not a formal conclusion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u5	Mr. Senator, I have to stop you. I'm sorry. [[...we agree on this...]] Mr. Senator... [[Mr. Marshal, I'll just finish my sentence.]] But I just wish you wouldn't finish. [[I was just about to finish.]] Oh, yeah. But, Senator, we have regulations. The Rules of Procedure shall specify exactly the catalogue of formal applications. Your conclusion at none of these points... [[...it can't be done.]] ...it can't be done. It doesn't fit. I'm sorry. [[Mr. Marshal, I don't know where you can report this to by the book, but I'm reporting...]] I mean... But I can tell you, Mr. Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I can tell you: you have to be a marshal and then the marshal makes such an offer. Because we commemorate a moment of silence, reflections... mostly silence, because every death requires silence... And we're talking about silence and pride, and reflection, leaning on people from different sides of the political scene, the people who deserved in politics, who deserved political action, who deserved politicians. The exception is the death of the senator. If someone wasn't a special senator, he didn't sign up on history cards as Minister, Prime Minister, Party President, we always sacrifice a moment of silence to celebrate the senator's memory. On the other hand, Senator, in Poland, 16 people commit effective suicides every day. 16 people! And I'd like to. If you insist on this proposal Then we'll honor all those who commit suicide... On average, 16 people commit suicide in Poland daily. But, Senator, your conclusion... I mean, your speech doesn't fit in the catalogue of formal proposals, but, of course, I'm going to let you complete your presentation of the formal proposal, because perhaps in the final phase it will turn out that, despite everything, it is a formal conclusion. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u6	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm sure there are as many positions for this act as we are here in the courtroom. I think we all have one thing in common: it wasn't just suicide, it was right or wrong, but there were important patriotic motives. Therefore, I propose that we, like the Sejm, may also rise here for a moment and, as the marshal said... [[Mr. Senator, well, it's me...]] ...just in silence... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...to refer to this event.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u7	Mr. Senator, wait a minute. I'll tell you what, Mr. Senator... [[He's right, Mr. Marshal, and silence is in place.]] Silence is... Every death is extraordinary, Mr. Senator. Every death is extraordinary and every death is painful. [[I move that the senators rise and celebrate...]] [[Well, bring it in.]] [[Senators of the Civic Platform rise]] All right, you're up. You're up, everyone has a right to choose. [[Give him eternal rest, Lord.]] And let eternal light shine upon all who have committed suicide. [[You remain in our memory!]] Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would very much ask the Senators of the Civic Platform not to interfere with the proceedings in the future. I ask you to comply with this. If you want to settle this, then... We're setting an order, yes, Senator. At a meeting of the Senior Convention. [[I brought it in.]] You didn't bring it, you asked the question I answered. You're not telling the truth. You didn't bring it in. You didn't. You should've brought it in. [[I asked.]] Mr. Senator, there's a very big difference between the question and the transfer. In that case, I would like to ask you, first of all, to establish with us the content or agenda of the agenda at the Senior Convention meeting. We do it always in good time so that the clubs can also read all the findings of the Senior Convention. The draft agenda was placed on senator benches. I propose to consider point four of the draft agenda, although the report of the Legislative Commission on this law was submitted at a later date than specified in the article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. and Mrs. Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by items: the Act amending the Act on Local Taxes and Charges and consider it as a third point, after a point concerning the Retail Tax Act; a law amending the Law on collective supply of water and collective discharge of waste water and certain other laws and considering this point as the fourth point; the Act amending the Law on repatriation, the Act on the Charter of Poles and the Act on Foreigners and consider this point as point 10, after the point concerning the draft law amending the Law on recognition of invalid judgments handed down against persons being repressed; the Law on the National Education Network and consider it as the eleventh point; the law on the financing of educational tasks and the examination of this point as the twelveth; the law on primary health care and consider this point as point 13; the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income earned by individuals and considering this point as fourteenth. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Grodzki... [[I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, but in this racket, I didn't hear if you read the Poz bill, too. I'm sorry for not paying attention.]] I read it, yes. [[What's the point?]] Point 13. [[Thank you very much.]] Please. Again, is anyone objecting? No. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? No. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 40th meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the law on recognition as invalid of judgments handed down against persons repressed for the purpose of the independent existence of the Polish State will be considered today, and the point concerning the draft law on the amendment of the law on road traffic and the law on vehicle managers will be considered on the second day of the meeting. Tomorrow, we will begin the session at 9.00 a.m., starting with a point on information on the Ombudsman's activities for 2016. Then, at 12:00 p.m., a 45-minute break in the session will be announced for the opening of the exhibition "The Senate of the Republic of Poland III term (1930/35) and his Marshal Władysław Raczkiewicz. I would like to inform you that the votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. This is not in the script, but I will inform you that if the agenda for tomorrow is not exhausted by 9:00 p.m., we will have a vote on the points that have been considered. This was the determination of the Senior Convention. That's one thing. Secondly, if the agenda is not exhausted, we will have an adjournment by 9 a.m. Monday. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Maritime Labour and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 617 and the report of the committee In print No 617 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Jack Włosowicz, to submit a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]] There you go, Mr. Senator, and I would ask you to silence your conversations or to hold conversations outside the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Infrastructure Commission of 17 October this year. She discussed amendments to the Maritime Labour Act and some other laws. What is the purpose of these changes from a formal legal point of view? This law introduces into Polish law the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 October and the amendments of 2014 to the Maritime Labour Convention, which was established in 2006, adopted in Geneva on 23 February 2006, approved on 11 June 2014 also in Geneva. It's a formal website. During the committee meeting, Minister Jerzy Materna discussed the bill and presented the position of the government, which is positive in this matter. The content page. The purpose of that law is to provide insurance cover in the event of abandonment if the ship owner has left the seafarer without means of subsistence or does not pay remuneration for work for at least 2 months, death or injury to the body or disease of seafarers, and determines the costs and persons responsible for covering them in the event of repatriation of abandoned seafarers. The Act raised no objections to the senators and therefore no one submitted for discussion. The chairman of the committee has submitted a motion for adoption of the law without amendment, which has been voted on. The committee therefore asks the Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome to Minister Jerzy Materna. Do you have anything to add to this report? No. Thank you. Would any of the senators like to ask the Minister a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the second agenda: amendment of the Retail Tax Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 618, and the report of the Commission In print No 618 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Commission has dealt with the Act on 19 October 2017 and recommends that the High Senate adopt the Act without amendment. Such a request was made by President Grzegorz Bierecki. This law concerns the transfer at the time of the entry into force of the Large-Store Tax Act. We must postpone the entry into force of this law until 1 January 2019, as the procedure for appealing this law by the European Commission to the European Union tribunal is currently under way. The Commission recommends that this law be adopted without amendment. The Legislative Office did not raise any objections to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u11	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of the senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would the Ministry's representative, Minister Wiesław Janczyk, like to speak on this matter? No. You want a minister? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: No, no.]] No. At present, senators can report no longer than a minute's time to the Minister. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask such a question? I can't see, I can't hear. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. He informs me that none of your senators have signed up. I therefore close the discussion. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'll get it. Wait a minute. [[Voice from the room: It's going very well.]] It's going well. You want a marshal? [[I was supposed to be driving since 11:15.]] Yes? Not since 11:30? You're welcome. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u12	We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on local taxes and charges. The text of the Act is contained in print No 629 and the report of the Commission In print No 629 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Arthur Warzocha, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u13	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At yesterday's meeting of the Joint Committee, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, a discussion was held on 27 October. Act amending the Act on Local Taxes and Charges. The purpose of this law is to amend the annual obligation for tax authorities to report on property tax, agricultural tax and forestry tax matters to the Minister responsible for public finances of selected information on these taxes. The amendment is intended to facilitate the conduct of sound tax policies, in particular the design of changes in the property taxation system, including the estimation of the effects of such changes. These reports are to be transmitted only in electronic form through the Regional Financial Chambers. The amendment was carried out at the request of the Commission of the Joint Government and the Territorial Self-Government and was accepted. However, the applicant, the Minister of Finance, decided to introduce this proposal to a somewhat limited extent. The joint committees, after considering the draft law, recommend that the Senate adopt the law without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u14	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance was authorised to present the government's position during the year of parliamentary work. Would a government representative like to take the floor on the bill under consideration to present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: No.]] No. Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. ...at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on collective supply of water and collective discharge of waste water and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 640 and the committee report In print No 640 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u15	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! It was my task to present the views of the Joint Committee on the Environment, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Local Territorial Government and State Administration on the amendment of the Act on collective supply of water and collective discharge of waste water and certain other laws. As regards the purpose of this law, the aim of this amendment, as is apparent from the justification of the government project, is to eliminate problems related to the malfunctioning of the market for services relating to collective water supply and waste water disposal. In addition, the proposed law is justified in order to legalise the interests of the recipients of services by establishing an independent and specialised regulatory body which will carry out additional supervision over the performance of collective water supply and waste water disposal tasks. The authors of the proposed law stress that the current model of regulation of the market for the provision of water and sewage services does not provide objective and independent supervision in the field of collective water supply and waste water discharge. According to the law... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I'm sorry. Quiet, please, because it makes it hard for the senator to speak.]] In accordance with the provisions of the Act of 7 June 2001 on collective supply of water and collective discharge of waste water, the regulation of the market was entrusted to the municipality and is based on the division of competences between the mayor, the mayor or the president and the council of the municipality. In the current state of law, the municipality approves the tariff for collective water supply and disposal on the basis of the application submitted by the water and sewage undertaking for the approval of the tariff. Services relating to collective water supply and waste water discharge shall be provided primarily by budgetary establishments or water and sewage undertakings operating in forms of commercial law companies in which the municipality is a majority or sole owner. According to the authors of the draft law, this situation may result in unjustified increases in prices and rates of charges for collective water supply and waste water discharge. Moreover, local government units, despite the available control tools, in particular in the form of the right to verify tariff applications, often do not use their powers and thus do not sufficiently protect service recipients from systematic increases in water prices and waste water discharge. With this in mind, the government has submitted a draft amending the current rules. This project introduces a regulatory body to which part of the legal instruments for collective water supply and waste water disposal will be transferred. Currently, these competences belong to the municipalities. According to the provisions of the Act, the function of the regulatory body was entrusted to the director of the Regional Water Management Board of the State Water Farm of Poland, hereinafter referred to as "Polish Waters," so commonly. The appointment of the director of the Regional Water Management Board of Polish Waters provides for the Act of 20 July 2017 Currently, the tasks of the regulatory authority are carried out by the President of the National Water Management Board. The regulatory body's tasks, i.e. the regulator, will include: the opinion of the draft rules for the supply of water and waste water; the approval by decision of tariffs and rates for collective water supply and collection of waste water, excluding tariffs due to the change in the rate of duty on goods and services; the settlement of disputes between water and sewage undertakings and recipients of services... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me. Quiet in the courtroom, please!]] ...imposition of the fines referred to in Article. 29 Act on collective supply of water and collection of waste water; collection and processing of information concerning water and sewage undertakings, in particular the calculation of average prices of water supply and reception and publication of information on these prices; drawing up and publishing reports on the conditions for carrying out activities in the field of collective water supply and collection of waste water. The role of the regulatory authority will also be to ensure the verification and approval of tariffs for collective water supply and waste water discharge in terms of compliance with legal provisions, taking into account in particular the protection of service recipients against unjustified increases in prices and charges. The regulatory authority will charge a fee of PLN 500 for the issue of the tariff approval decision. The revenue from these fees will be the income of Polish Waters. The parties to the proceedings for the decision to approve the tariff will be the water and sewage undertakings and the competent governor, the mayor or the president of the city. If a water and sewage undertaking is a municipal organisation with no legal personality, it will only be a party to the proceedings. The Act provides that the tariffs approved by the regulatory authority shall enter into force 7 days after their publication on the subject page of the Public Information Bulletin of the State Water Farm of Poland. In addition, the provisions of the Act introduce changes during the period of validity of tariffs. The water supply and sewage company will set a tariff for a period of 3 years. Until now, tariffs have been in force for a period of one year. The extension of the tariff period, as justified by the law, takes into account in particular the possibility of balancing available water resources over a period of more than one year due to the possibility of extreme phenomena, e.g. droughts, and the valuation of the availability of this resource, and thus the certainty of this valuation for water service recipients, and thus, of course, the recipients of water and sewage services. In order to ensure that the tasks laid down by law are carried out, the regulatory authority may call on the municipality, the water and sewage undertaking or the recipient of services, within a period of not less than 7 days, to provide the information or documents necessary for the performance of its tasks. The transmission of false or misleading information or documents shall be an administrative measure at risk of financial penalty. The provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure shall apply to proceedings before the regulatory authority, and the higher authority on decisions under the law against the regulatory authority shall be the President of the State Water Farm of Poland, excluding the decision referred to in Article. 27e bill. In addition, the Act provides that the regulatory authority will be competent to settle disputes between water and sewage undertakings and recipients of water supply or waste water supply contracts, as well as to cut water supply or to close the sewage connection, or to refuse to connect the property to the person applying for the connection of the property to the network. In these cases, the regulatory authority shall decide by decision and the proceedings shall be initiated at the request of the party. In accordance with the provisions of the Act, the decision of the regulatory authority on these matters will be subject to an appeal to the District Court in Warsaw. The Court of Competition and Consumer Protection. Appeal proceedings against decisions referred to in the Article introduced. Article 27e (2) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act, will take place on the basis of the Code of Civil Procedure in proceedings in matters relating to regulation of the water and sewage market. This law introduces a separate procedure in the code of civil proceedings in matters relating to the regulation of the water and sewage market in connection with the settlement of disputes between water and sewage undertakings and recipients of services. The dispute settlement between water and sewage undertakings and recipients is a two-way procedure. The Code of Administrative Procedure shall apply to proceedings before the regulatory authority and appeals against decisions and provisions of the body shall be brought before the District Court in Warsaw. The Court of Competition and Consumer Protection. The proceedings will take place in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure. The procedure is governed by Section IVf. It is about proceedings in competition matters. The proposed law amends the Law of 4 September 1997 on the departments of government administration, the Law on judicial costs in civil matters and water law. The amendments to the Law on Administrative Departments are intended to supplement, as from the date of entry into force of this Law, the Water Management Act on matters relating to the definition of rules and conditions for collective water supply intended for consumption and collective waste water discharge. In turn, the amendments made to the Law on Water Law are the result of changes to the Law on Government Administrations. They have a clean-up character. The Act also contains transitional provisions which prejudice the application of existing regulations to cases initiated and not completed until its entry into force. In addition, in accordance with the provisions of the Act, the applicable tariffs shall remain in force for a period of 180 days from the entry into force and the existing rules for the supply of water and waste water shall remain in force until the entry into force of the new regulations. The Act enters into force with a 14-day vacatio legis, except that introduced in the Act on collective water supply and waste water discharge art. 24c (1) lit. (b) concerning the assessment by the regulatory authority of the compatibility of the draft tariff with the provisions of the Water Law, which will enter into force on 1 January 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, during the committee meeting, a rather interesting discussion was held about the proposed law. The voices in this matter were different, so to speak. He received a motion to reject a law which did not obtain a majority. The Commission recommends that the law be adopted without amendment. The bill is necessary. In the opinion of the designers, that is, the government side, the situation on the water market is bad and ill. I took the liberty of preparing for this report I also raised this at the committee's meeting. This is the breakdown of the costs of water supply and sewage disposal in different cities, in larger cities; these are cities of over 50,000 inhabitants. Divergences in the costs of water supply and waste water discharge, when we take this together, are huge. The minimum total price for delivering 1 m3 of water and draining 1 m3 of sewage is... In Biała Podlaskie it is 6.56 PLN for 1 m3; these are gross prices. In turn the maximum total price of the supply of 1 m3 of water and waste water discharge, gross price, is PLN 18.01, so three times higher. This is interesting, because this price is valid in Mysłowice, where there is a reservoir of drinking water in Dziećkowice, which is here in terms of costs... The translation at the committee meeting of representatives of water suppliers and water supply companies that cities make huge investments in infrastructure does not exactly appeal to me, because, as I say, the list includes 89 cities. If the average price, the total price of 1 m3 of water and sewage calculated by me for these 89 cities is 10 zł 90 gr, then something here is not right. It cannot be said that, as I would say, failure or lack of a concept of the development of water supply companies to customers. During the preparation of the report, I allowed myself to print I'm not gonna read it to you. Minimum and maximum prices of water and waste water removal in all voivodships. I found these materials. And let me tell you that this price of 18 PLN for drainage is not the maximum price, because, if I remember correctly, the record holder is probably Szklarska Poręba, where the price of 1 m3 of water and sewage is 30 PLN 5 gr. I took the liberty, too. This is an online publication, but fairly well done • check some data concerning the Silesian Voivodeship, they overlaped. I think the rest of the data is real, too. I took the liberty of printing some comments from readers of this web publication. And maybe I can read you one of those comments. Of course, it is about overpriced water and waste water prices: We are the same, 1 m3 of water costs 20 PLN, and the earnings of 99% of people are minimum wage. In conclusion, we pay PLN 160.180 for two people per month. I only take a shower at home on the weekends, I go to my sister's house last week because the water is free of charge from my well. When your sister lived with us, 6 people were washed together, we paid 460 PLN for water a month. There's nothing to hide, the price of water is cosmic, and the current isn't better. We swapped bulbs all over the house for energy efficient, sister moved out, so the power drop should be at least 40%. And here the surprise has been the same for months, even this month higher. Such, ladies and gentlemen, people have problems and such costs are borne by our citizens. And effectively, without any control, without any supervision of some municipalities... I do not generalize that it is all municipalities that unfairly raise water prices and de facto pass all possible costs on to the citizen, but some municipalities do so. I therefore request that the bill be adopted, in accordance with the committee's position, without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u16	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Infrastructure, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Piotr Flork, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u17	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, the motion of a minority committee is a motion to reject such a controversial law. I'll tell you why, a few words of justification. A colleague quite clearly and widely here spoke about this bill, so that a few words, why... Well, ladies and gentlemen, for some time we have been going with laws in this direction to limit the functioning of local governments. Several of the laws that have been introduced in the meantime are moving in this direction. Now we have another bill, a task of our own communities. Well, we're trying to regulate it in a statutory manner, more or less on the same basis as it used to be: that there's actually no maximum price fixed, but there's going to be interference with the tariff. So we're trying to get the state to regulate prices when we're dealing with a community of our own. What does that tell you? The justification is that this is due to the control of the NIK that during the inspection NIK noticed that there are some irregularities regarding the costs that are entering the price of water. Of course, he noticed some irregularities, like any check. Any irregularities are always found as a result of the check. But those irregularities, like someone did at the committee meeting, that was 1%. or a zero comma of some percentage on a national scale. From this, it cannot be concluded that, therefore, different rules should be introduced than those already in force. And what were the rules so far? Well, they worked well. The fact that prices vary, as the rapporteur said here... I can also say that. in big cities in Poland it's almost It's a minimum difference. It's a cashier's fee. But probably in a mountain area where you have to make investments that are very expensive, this price will be higher. We have done a lot in the country over the last few years with regard to the water and sewage economy, billions of zlotys have been invested and this is something to be enjoyed. We still have further opportunities at the moment to make use of these additional resources and to improve this. So far, it's been that the company that handled the waterworks... Most of them are companies governed by commercial law, i.e. they are governed by the Commercial Code, the President must see that such a company operates well because it is responsible for the company's activities. This company presented a tariff proposal to the mayor, the mayor, and the council of the municipality fixed the price of water per year. Well, right now we're even talking about three years, which obviously doesn't even fit the design of the budget in the municipalities, the state budget, etc., where everything would have to be predicted for three years. And in this regard, of course, the discussions... all those who were councillors in the municipalities know this, the senators know this, what the discussion on this subject looked like. Sometimes it lasted all day, everyone was arguing about this price of water, because those councillors, these people, they know best in this environment what it looks like. They know how much water and sewage cost in the neighboring community. They say, and it's cheaper there than ours and so on. And they can finally figure it all out, and so far there hasn't been a big problem. And now it turns out it's supposed to look quite different. At the moment, you have taken into account the water and sewage economy, the price of water. Well, I have a question for you when there will be further proposals. Well, urban communications, ladies and gentlemen, a typical example. In every city there is also a public transport facility, which is also, you can say, a monopolist. Therefore, it may also be necessary to impose the prices of public transport, because they are very different in Poland. There are cities where it's zero and you drive for free. Well, in that case, you'd have to put in a state regulator, too, because it's not fair, it's unequal. I could give you a lot of other examples. Then why the interference? We don't know that. Well, who's gonna decide that? Well, there are these Polish Waters right now, they have to take care of something, well, water management... And there's the regional water management board. Of course now it turns out that they on this regional board are supposed to have professionals, it is supposed to cost nothing, they are supposed to do this as part of their business, to have professionals who will assess all the costs that are, and whether this price, this taxi driver is appropriate. Well, let's find a specialist who, from this point of view, will be able to analyze the situation in a municipality, such as the time, analysis, trips, etc. . analyze the situation, how costs are shaped. It was said that some people would make too much profit, and that the price of water is probably too high. That's not enough, they're still like. promote the company or transfer some funds for various activities in the municipality. Of course it happens. As always in the commune, there are celebrations, there's sponsorship of small amounts, etc., but I don't think it's a bad thing. After all, these are companies governed by commercial law and therefore the company governed by commercial law must bear in mind that it is governed by the Commercial Code. He must remember that, because if he doesn't, the president of the company will suffer the consequences. And now we're saying, Mr. President, okay, but your company, you know, with these costs... It's too much, it's not good. Sir, we're not approving this price, this cab driver. If we don't approve, it'll be temporary. Well, if the company doesn't make a new proposal, it will apply and apply. And who will ultimately be responsible for the operation of the company, if the company calculates that there should really be such a price, and here it turns out that you may not, but no more... that means no more, but will not approve and therefore make new proposals... Who will be responsible for this operation of the company? For us, then, there is no doubt that this bill is unnecessary, unnecessary. Well, if there are cases, And they were, as NIK showed. Then, of course, it must be stigmatized, for which there is a prosecutor, for which there are various actions, if there has been abuse, mis-exploited funds, there is a regional accounting chamber, etc. This is how you have to do it, not impose it on everyone, create some kind of new supervision over the functioning in Poland... Let me remind you that we have almost 2 000 500 municipalities, and this will require control in all these municipalities. And for what? Why impose such an additional duty on the Minister? I don't think it makes any sense. And if we do it now, then of course... I gave you an example of MPK. Yeah, we're gonna apply in that case, and we're gonna have to set prices everywhere in public transport. You can't set a zero rate because it affects the loss, etc. Well, where's this coming from? We can bid on... Therefore, the proposal is clear and simple: this law should not be adopted. Let the councilmen who are elected, who are settled after 4 years, as we will be settled... each of you will also be settled, in 2 years, soon. It's a good thing that all we're saying is now being recorded, that you can listen to each other in 10 years' time or 10 years' time back, find on the Internet and show what you once said or said. And that must be borne in mind, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, let us trust the municipalities, believe that councillors can think and act, because they will be accounted for. Let's not settle this in a legal way. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u18	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u19	I have questions for both senators. First of all, at the committee meeting Because this was not mentioned in the report of the former representatives of local governments? What was their position? Were the representatives of the House of Water and Sewerage Companies? What was the position of these stakeholders? Was this law the subject of the Council of Social Dialogue, and what was the position of the Council? That's my first question. And two: did you consider such a situation that in a particular municipality Just like I used to be in mine when I was a local governmentman. A large investment is taking place, in this case it was a completely new shot of water for an 80-thousandth city, a loan was taken, which of course influenced the price of water in the city... Will the regulator now be able to and according to which criteria On a voluntary basis, set a price which it considers to be excessive, e.g. without taking into account those liabilities which the company has? What would happen to her then? Who will be responsible for this? Board or regulator. If the company, e.g. will not make the investments required by environmental law? Who will then be responsible for this? I would ask you to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u20	Thank you very much. Senator Libicki, then Senator Gaweł and we will proceed to the answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u21	Thank you very much. The first question is, to both rapporteurs: do you not think that the appointment of this regulator is, however, excessive centralism? The issue of water and waste water in the municipality seems to naturally belong to the local government. If we take away such competences from the local government, the question arises: what kind of authority at the end of this process will it have at all competence if we take away such fundamental powers from it? And the second question is the following, also to both rapporteurs. As I understand it, this information appeared here. We have 2.5 thousand municipalities in Poland. I would therefore like to know whether there was any indication at the committee's meeting of the proportion in which the percentage of these municipalities, in which the percentage of these local authorities, these prices for water supply and sewage disposal can be really gross or such, I would say, surprising. What is the percentage of these irregularities, this overstatement, which, I understand, the cure is the bill we're proceeding with right now? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u22	Thank you very much. Senator Gawel.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u23	Question for both rapporteurs. Please, if one of you knows to tell me what the real impact is. I would like to stress: the real council has a municipality council to set the rate for 1 m3 of water. Because when it ends, I know from experience.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u24	Thank you very much. Mr. Senators, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u25	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. As far as Senator Flork's question on the Social Dialogue Council is concerned, it is clear from what was presented at the committee's meeting that, as far as I remember, the draft law was, as I would say, socially consulted, a public consultation was carried out. This is... [[Would you mind reminding the senator how many days there were for this consultation?]] Oh, I don't remember that. I think the Minister will be able to answer so that you can ask... [[I'll remind you of 7 days.]] Seven? Well... Price setting by the regulator. That's the question two senators asked. Ladies and gentlemen, I have read to you fragments of the materials I have prepared concerning water prices. I'm a little worried about the position of senator of the minority rapporteur, who compares urban communication with water. Water is a substance of life, essential for the life of all living organisms, there is no life without water. As far as I know, there is no alternative to water, there is no substitute goods in this area. When it comes to urban communication, you can, I say, walk, you can ride a bike... So that comparing these two tasks of the municipalities seems inappropriate to me. I would like to answer the question, because it is linked to the question of regulation of water prices, to remind what we heard from the Minister. My notes may not be complete, but two values, two numbers of those that the Minister gave me, I've written down. Water and sewage companies are public utility enterprises, that is, they serve the public, they should not be profit-oriented, they should only provide the people, the society with the goods it needs. At yesterday's meeting, the Minister gave some amounts to myself, but there were more. The profit of the Warsaw waterworks, if I remember correctly, is PLN 309 million. I have already written down that Poznań waterworks have a profit of PLN 60 million. These are huge amounts for profits of commercial law companies, as the Senator rapporteur has just stressed, saying that they are often commercial law companies. This is the money that I'm going to say is the money of the citizens... [[They're being invested.]] If they're invested, Senator... There are also different sources of funding, not necessarily from local society. The various strategies of the municipalities apply, as can be seen at the prices of this water Some municipalities invest in infrastructure as municipalities, and some transfer everything to companies or water supply companies that carry out investments. So there are different models, and in such a situation it will be shifted. - Water prices. - Water prices. - Right at the end of the day. About the question: is excessive centralism... No, it's not, because it's really not. That's also the answer to Senator Gawl's question. The municipalities can't handle it... some of the municipalities can't handle it. How does it look from the technical point of view? Senator Gaweł asked the question as a former self-government officer and knows what it looks like. [[Councillors can't do anything.]] This is fiction, ladies and gentlemen. The fixing of water prices at municipal council sessions is usually fiction, and the verification by voters every 4 years is often ineffective. People For apologies they swear, tighten their teeth, cry and pay because they have no other choice. [[And they vote.]] And they're voting. Yeah, a lot of times. I'll be honest with you, I'm curious about the price of water. I did not give all the data, but, Ladies and gentlemen, if there are municipalities located close to each other and water prices vary... As I said, the minimum total price of waste water and water I have recorded in large cities is 6.56 PLN versus 6.56 PLN. If I remember correctly, I think it was Glass Poręba. More than 30 PLN for 1 m3. Well, something's wrong here. Despite the investment... I mean. results from the fact that some municipalities simply invest, are good owners and water supply companies perform the necessary renovations, maintain infrastructure, and some simply do not do so, right? [[But that's what it is.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, he doesn't. If someone takes a total of PLN 6.50 for 1 m3 of water and sewage, i.e. That he can't do it, because the guy who takes 30 zlotys for 1 m3, he has to do it if the price is so high, right? The one who takes PLN 6.50 probably doesn't. So that's no excuse for me. And here's the question: what percentage of these municipalities with over-inflated I'll tell you what. The price... As I recall from the committee's meeting, this is precisely the water price criterion that was not subject to any control. Legal supervision of the voivodship covered all resolutions of the municipalities' councils in terms of formal law, but there was no basis for verifying the laws in terms of price and real economic validity. It had no impact on the concept of "excess profit of the public utility'. So that such data was not presented at the committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u26	It's me. There were questions for me, too, Mr. Marshal, so I'm still answering. Senator Augustyn asked the first question about the consultation. At the meeting of the Social Dialogue Committee, it is certainly not, but at the meeting of the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission... I'm sure the Minister can answer that question. I didn't take the notes from yesterday's committee meeting because it was going to be discussed at the next meeting, and at the moment it turned out that this point was introduced, so I don't even have those notes, and I was there to record all of this. But I'm sure that's what I remember. It was a problem because the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission... There was a representative of the Polish Towns Association, and I think there was also a representative of the Polish Towns Association. They were just saying It was just a batting ball between the Minister... That there wasn't much time. The Minister said that he consulted, and they in turn had so little time that they couldn't gather, because the committee had to gather to discuss it, which was a discussion of how to bounce the ball between them, about why they didn't have this consultation. Because they weren't really there. What you said, Mr. Senator, about these investments... There are many such self-governments. That's why there are price differences. It's obvious that if you have to invest, you have to spend a lot of money... But it's decaying over the years, it's an investment. for many, many years, and we now want to brake this taxi driver for 3 years, so how to plan all this further. These prices were therefore, of course, different. I've got a lot of examples I can give you, too. It is normal, of course, that they will differ. Unless we go back to the way things were. So all these companies need to be nationalised, they need to make a regulated price, and then it will be clear. But this is the direction where you're going, so you want to go back to what used to be, and we all know what it was called, the way you manage it, the way you set prices centrally. You can go back to that. You think this is the right direction. Here you go, you can make those suggestions. Of course, we won't agree. The more self-government, the better. You have a different opinion about this, but it's hard to say. Senator Libicki regarding this excessive... That's what I've already said. We've got two and a thousands of municipalities in Poland and, therefore... we want to centrally impose on all municipalities how these prices are to be determined. And Senator Gawel... Well, Mr. Senator, it's commonplaces, that's the truth. There are municipalities where the discussion about water prices was very meaningful. We know what the procedure is, who's putting it together, we know the mayor is proposing, but the council doesn't have to vote. He doesn't have to vote. Of course, there are situations. We can say that in one commune the council is afraid of the uncle, which means he will vote because the council listens. Well, that's the whole point of self-government to choose people to choose the mayor, the mayor, the president. I mostly know examples of good... But there were also negative examples. It's a normal thing. If we want to heal everyone 100% , make everything okay, it's like I say, you have to give the state companies centrally out of the budget to give money, centrally set the price. At that time, there will be no problems. I think it's actually different for communities, but it's... negative examples happen. NIK caught some negative examples, which is why this bill... Madam President NIK was at the meeting and said that it actually happens that costs are sometimes calculated in different ways, overestimated, that something should be done about it, but she didn't say that it had to be done exactly the way the Ministry is proposing at the moment, which is that it has to be such an organ that... There they would have to hire really outstanding professionals, because I can't imagine how in the case of 2.5 thousand municipalities... To analyze all this, you need to know exactly the situation in the municipality, the investment processes, the budgets for years, how it's going to look. I can't imagine we're gonna have the kind of guy who's gonna make a great deal out of this. I am convinced that in the first phase, all these prices will remain so, so to speak, positive... Because it's gonna be too hard to prove... If it turns out that the price will not be, so to speak, approved, then, of course, the municipality, the company will have claims, we will sue, there will be a problem with who is right, etc. I am convinced that at this first stage it will be that... the Minister will not yet have men, professionals, because this bill, as I recall, is due to enter into force in two weeks. As far as the company is concerned, about the Polish Water Company, it was not until January 1st... So there won't be anyone to do it anyway. I mean, there's, like, 120 days when... Practically for some time the prices will apply, but then there is a deadline when you will have to submit to the office, to the regulator a letter regarding the price. There's a deadline for next year. I can't imagine how during this reorganization that's gonna happen... I don't know how all this can be done quickly and efficiently. Of course, there will be a mess, there will be trouble, they will protest the municipalities, but you like it and, as it turns out, the more mess, the better. We're just signaling that this is the wrong direction, completely unnecessary, but we'll see how it goes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u28	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I have a question for the rapporteur of the minority proposal. The Lord defends self-government, as if self-government is a value in itself, and as far as I know, self-governments are primarily meant to serve people. And here's the question. We have a natural monopoly, probably the most screwed up, because as far as issues, I don't know, gas, fuel, etc. you can somehow bypass, but the water and sewage issues simply cannot be missed. As inhabitants of the city or village we must, first of all, use the services of this natural monopoly, which provides us with water and takes away the sewage. Secondly, as you can see, the municipalities have failed because the differences in these costs, the differences in water prices are enormous. They're not a dozen or a dozen percent difference, but they're a 400% difference. So the question is whether it is not the role of the state to take care of, to try to take care of the weakest. Because here, unfortunately, we have two sides: on the one hand, we have a local government that screws up prices, of course, at the request of water companies or sewage companies, and what happens in these companies, we all know On the other hand, we have a resident who is condemned to do so. And here's the question: who's gonna defend him? Does he have to pick another mayor every four years? But, apparently, it's kind of hard for people to pick a new mayor because this old guy, he's in jail, he's got... Well, he's the main employer, among other things. In companies like the ones from waterworks and sewers, and he dictates the terms. And the circle closes. So shouldn't the state take care of the weakest and their interests, especially in cases of natural monopolies?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u29	You said the government screwed up the prices. Well, then you have to do exactly... I can't say, like you said, if the price is four times higher than in another municipality, that means the government is screwing up the prices. It would be necessary to carefully analyse all the costs involved so that we can answer the question whether these prices are reasonable or not. And that's why you do the analysis, and the municipality can hire a professional. And some municipalities do that, employ companies to analyze costs, etc. So we can check it out. So I can't say that local governments are overpriced. Well, you know, it's like talking without proof. We'd have to prove that some government is overpriced. The fact that you have to take care of the weakest and keep the price as low as possible... That's the job of the commune. And that's what all the councillors of the commune are all about. When determining the price But she can't be so low that a company that supplies water and which is a company of commercial law... As I say, otherwise there is only a completely different way: if this is not a commercial law company, but some state financial company, then okay, then you can take such action, you can impose something here. But in the case of a commercial company, it cannot be imposed. I don't know if if if you were the president of such a commercial law company, you'd want to operate under such conditions, especially if you knew that you would actually have a loss in the company. Because in connection with this price, but also with the investments you have undertaken, and the costs you have spread over the years, investment costs, etc... I don't know if you'd be willing to act on all of this, with criminal responsibility, in a company like this. So, of course, you can discuss this, but these are individual matters. Here is the case of every company, every company, every municipality. But if you want to say it like that, I repeat once again: you would have to introduce a state monopoly, as it used to be, and then it would have been okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u30	Senator Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u31	I have a question for Senator Flork, too. He beat me a little bit to the question of my predecessor, Senator Czerwinski. But I'm going to say this: water supply companies are a perfect monopoly, because it's a monopoly related to infrastructure. Due to the specifics there are very few such companies where there is such a perfect monopoly Well, probably only in heat, but I'll say that, to a lesser extent, and even in the case of energy, we have the opportunity, despite the same infrastructure, to choose another supplier, let's say, cheaper, or there's some competition there. And here's the problem: there's no competition for such a water supply company, there's no... You can create costs, and no one's actually controlling it. Let us remember that most of these water supply companies are owned by the municipality. And when this owner of the company, this owner... Well, the owners are generally all residents, but it's the mayor, the president, representing the owner, which is the residents. And here comes the president of such a water supply company, and he says: here we have to make such prices, because we have such costs, so we have to set such a tariff. And so the owner himself, so to speak, controls his company. If he controls it at all, so if he doesn't just tap this tariff. Because, as some senators have said, the councillors de facto no longer have anything to say here. We in Jelenia Góra even once tried to reduce prices through an amendment and we were told that we could not do that, that we could either accept or reject the tariff. And even if we'd rejected her, she'd have come in from the vending machine anyway. And as far as this idea is concerned, it's not centralization, it's not imposing something, it's control. We are introducing a body, an independent institution, independent of the local government, independent of the company that checks it, will lean over this tariff. After all, there's a record in the collective water supply bill that the price still has to be covered. The company cannot demonstrate a loss-making tariff. The municipality, if it wants, can, through a grant from the budget, pay up to 1 m3 of water and some municipalities, because rarely, but it happens so. They're doing it. And, Mr. Senator, in conclusion, I'm going to ask you a question because I think you've been saying a little bit of untruth that someone wants to impose something. Does this law impose water prices or introduces a control mechanism? I know the answer to that question, but I'd like you to answer, because I think you've gone a little too far. That's my first question. My second question is that at the committee meeting she was a representative of the Supreme Audit Chamber, as you said. And tell me exactly what it is from this representative. Or rather a representative, because it was you that we heard. Because as far as I can remember, this is the report that the NIK controllers said: yes, it is necessary to introduce such an office. They didn't say what office it was supposed to be, but they suggested in this report what you also said to NIK that it should be something like the URE, the Energy Regulatory Office. The Ministry went in the right direction in my opinion, because considering that we have 2.5 A thousand municipalities... That doesn't mean we have 2.5. thousands of water supply companies, because there are certain relationships, and some companies provide services to several municipalities. I'm sure there aren't two and a half thousand on a national scale. I don't know, there's 1,700 of them, as I suspect, maybe even less, but that's still a lot, I agree. [[Mr. Senator...]] To sum up, could you quote, what requirements or recommendations did the Supreme Auditorium present? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u32	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u33	Mr. Marshal... [[Let me remind you one minute.]] Yes, sir, I'll try to be efficient in this matter. Mr. Marshal, I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur: did you at the committee's meeting think about the fact that prices will be set for three years? In your opinion, however, will this not lead to such a situation that the water supply company will strive to maximise this price, and this is because it does not know the conditions of management, e.g. pay, electricity prices, etc., three years in advance? By setting the price for 3 years ahead today, it will maximize this price so as to cover potential costs in the future, which will unfortunately result in price increases, actually every time. That's one question. And the second question is, have you considered why this law only leads to regulation of water prices and not to regulation of sewage prices? Because de facto, in practice, often exactly the same entity manages and waterworks, and sewage treatment. Therefore, if this regulation applies only in this one area, the water area, this could result in some deregulation in the waste water area, and the price of waste water, waste water treatment, is always higher, at least a second amount, than the price of water for the consumer. Thus, from the consumer's point of view, the price of waste water is, unfortunately, more important for the household than the price of water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u34	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine and I will proceed to the answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u35	I have a question which concerns the criteria for assessing this tariff by the regulatory authority. I would ask you to respond to Senator Grabowski. To whether the regulatory authority can actually arbitraryly set a tariff, as the Chambers claim, because the criteria are so vague and ambiguous that they give such an opportunity. And second question. As was said at the committee's meeting, it was alleged that, unlike the Energy Regulatory Office, which often takes a very independent position at the meetings of our economic committee, because it is an independent body... How do you feel about the fact that this office will actually be subject to political power, because it will be subject to a state entrepreneur, and it will not be an independent regulator? I'm asking because these two aspects are very connected. We need to make sure that the new regulator evaluates this according to clear criteria and impartially. Where are the guarantees?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u36	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u37	The first question was to me, so I answer. Mr. Senator, about the price fixing, it was the council of the municipality that set the price... [[She approved.]] Sorry, she approved the price, yes, but only the one that was offered. It's supposed to be the same now. Nothing changes here. Now this regulator can either approve the price or not approve the price. If she doesn't approve, she won't approve. You said that... there'll be arguments why he approved or didn't approve, all the analysis and discussion, whether right or wrong, etc. You were talking about the community being able to subsidize... Well, the commune does donate a lot of things. I mean, if it's like... education, I don't think there's a commune in Poland that doesn't donate, because there's always not enough money for education. So the municipality can also subsidize water and if it has that possibility, it will probably try to do so. Of course, it can be said that if there is no approval of the price, then the municipality, having no choice, will subsidize... There is also a question of why the price was approved in this municipality and why it was not approved in that municipality, although it is e.g. It's the same. Well, that comes from these investments and so on. So we can discuss it forever. We'll discuss and discuss, every municipality will be right, she'll say she's right... That's where it's headed. About NIK, about what you... I wish I had... Well, I just found out that we're gonna be discussing this, and I didn't take my notes, and there I had written down what the president said. From what I recall, she was actually talking about some irregularities. This study included a small... I think two voivodships exchanged, if I remember correctly. Before, before that, there was some control in Lubuskie Voivodeship. On the basis of this, it can be concluded that in several municipalities It's a small percentage of the former inaccuracies and that something should be done about it. And she gave an example of the regulator... She gave an example of how it was solved there, but did not say that it was a good direction, that it should be done so, etc. The point is to think about how to approach it. Probably you could find a lot of solutions, ideas where this regulator should be located, whether it should be completely independent, and not in those Polish Waters. Well, you can discuss it, but today we have a bill and we are discussing this particular bill. In my opinion, this will not change anything and will cause the municipalities in which this tariff is not approved to have a problem. Well, they're gonna try to defend it, of course, so it's probably gonna be loud about it, and it's gonna be really hard to prove who's right. That is why it was much better how it worked so far. Thank you. [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u38	Yes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u39	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Let me add two more words to what Senator Florek just said. I also remember the committee meeting, although I did not record it, but I remember how your representative NIK stated that the audit conclusions were the result of an inspection carried out on a representative group of municipalities. That's pretty important, too. And the senator here is trying to say that it was a couple of municipalities. No, it wasn't a few municipalities, the control was wider. About Senator Kleina's question. I'm gonna start from the beginning. Why 3 years and whether municipalities, water supply companies will not try to maximize prices, I will say so. Well, that's what the regulator is for, which I'm not gonna say he was denying economically justified water prices. Minister Gajda, who is present here, pointed out that in Polish Waters, in fact the regulator entity, will be working analysts, controllers, who will take into account a wide range of data, will carry out a wide range of financial analyses of companies, their results, their needs. Besides, the laws haven't changed, Mr. Senator, even in an article. 19th Act, Art. 20 refers to the determination of the tariff on the basis of the necessary revenues after their allocation to individual tariff groups of recipients. That hasn't changed. Prices and rates vary for individual tariff groups of customers on the basis of documented differences in the cost of collective water supply. This law does not impose water prices. The essence of the appointment of the regulator is that just those, as Senator Florek said, individual cases, I think these are not isolated cases, but even individual cases of catching. And it is simply in the public interest, in the interests of the citizens, if the municipalities are unable to take care of their citizens, such solutions must be introduced by law, unfortunately, because it is not for the local government to care for their citizens, and often so. The second part of the question. Mr. Senator Klein, I don't know how you feel about that, but why did you feel that the law only regulates the water market? No, the Water Supply Act, according to the name itself, regulates tariffs, prices, yes, prices and water, and sewage. These are common taxis. Sold a meter of water equals a meter of sewage. Well, that water won't evaporate, will it? So, let me put it this way, these are combined tariffs, right? [[They're not combined, they're often separated.]] As far as I know, they're mostly combined. In any event, the Act directly regulates tariffs, refers to water and sewage tariffs. [[They're separated.]] [[Calm down, please.]] Often one resolution, yes, often one resolution of the municipality raises the costs of water and sewage. Now yes, there was also a question of Senator Augustine regarding the evaluation criteria. As I said here, representatives... It is not going to be an analysis that is separate from the economic needs of the company. By the way, I would like to remind you that these are utilities. I've given the amounts before, I'll repeat them. 309 million of the Warsaw water supply, 60 million of the Poznań water supply. Well, I don't know if it's justified or not. [[Senator, you'd know what you're talking about.]] [[Senator...]] [[Calm down, please allow the senator to answer.]] Again, say it again. [[Mr. Senator, when making decisions, we senators should know whether this profit is justified or not...]] That's why... [[Well, since you're quoting this, it would be good if you called...]] I'm just studying this profit... [[...he checked and knew.]] It is the examination of this profit, the examination of the situation, the economic condition, the justification of the water price will be dealt with by the regulator. Not you, Mr. Senator, not me, not the council of the commune who here... Senator Florek has often repeated... there have often been a lot of intense discussions at municipal council meetings. But I would like to ask the question: how many municipal councils have not adopted resolutions on the price of water? What are the proportions of the accepted ones? Yes, yes, there are turbulent discussions... [[Mr. Senator, if you give an example that...]] [[Excuse me, I'm the one giving the floor and the voice has...]] Yeah, yeah, I gave the example, gave the numbers that... [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry. Please don't go into polemics, just answer the questions. 'Cause this is where the discussion starts, just like the committee meeting.]] But I am just answering the question about the evaluation criteria: that the evaluation will be carried out by experts in the field of economics, control, people prepared for it in substance. And that's the answer to that question. And when it comes to political vocation... I don't know if the control specialists... I'm sure there's a political vocation there, so to speak... that they probably have some political views, but I'm not gonna expose the officials in terms of their political views, more in terms of their substantive knowledge. So that's my answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u40	Thank you very much. Another round of questions. Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u41	Thank you very much. Senator rapporteur, we are actually constantly turning around one question, that is to say, what is the real scale of these grossly overpriced tariffs. Because on the one hand, as I understand it, we are adopting this law because it is said that such a phenomenon occurs very often. On the other hand, when a question of scale arises, we do not get an answer. Senator Florek says it's a few percent. You say there's more, but you don't serve... 'Cause if it were like that. In 30% of the municipalities we are dealing with this situation, it would be worth doing something, as I understand it. But if this only applies to the individual examples that you are referring to, the question arises as to whether all this rollover of the system makes sense. In my opinion, No, no, no, no, If I don't get an answer to that question, I'll ask the Minister again. And finally, I must say that I am somewhat surprised to see that the charge against the commercial law company is that it has earned a profit in its operation. That, I'll admit, I can't understand. If the owner, or self-government, wants to use this profit to lower the prices, he's just gonna do it, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u42	Thank you very much. Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. First the question to the rapporteur of the minority and then the Senate majority. Senator rapporteur, Senator Florek, I have a question of whether you do not think that the local government units, both in the form of the mayor, the president and the council, are enough control for the actions of the mayor, the mayor or the president in the water economy. After all, citizens choose their representatives in democratic, free elections to be the mayor, mayor or president, then they choose the council of the municipality, which also controls the actions of these municipalities. And, little of that, they still have a referendum instrument. For various reasons, including among others. because of the irrational economy, such as the financial, water economy, they can launch a referenda procedure and cancel such a mayor or president. Don't you think that what we're talking about here is too much government interference? And isn't it your opinion that this is another law that cuts the local government in Poland? And now the question for the Senator of the majority, Senator Grabowski. Mr. Senator, this bill doesn't include financial consequences. Who's gonna fund the regulator's operation? What will be the number of posts and what will the annual costs of this regulator be? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u44	Thank you very much. Senator Gawel.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u45	Well, I want to tell you something before I ask you a question. Talking about the fact that the commune council has an impact on the price of water is just a theory and fiction. In practice, it looks like the company is sending a proposal for a water price planner and advice, usually at a very turbulent session, discussing this. And if she doesn't accept the proposed price, she's in line with the bill after 70 days from the date of the application. [[Well, maybe you need that bill...]] So, if we are so concerned that the government itself will have a greater impact on this, why did the opposition not request an increase in the powers of the Council in this regard? And as for the companies themselves, I'm not gonna keep going on this subject for a long time. It is not always that this proposed tariff is reasonably prepared in terms of economic considerations. And I want to say again: the advice does not affect the price, it does not actually affect the price. Let's not discuss that he can do anything.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u46	Are there any more calls? You're welcome, Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u47	Thank you. The next question is... That is a question for the Senator, the rapporteur of the majority of the committee. Mr. Senator, setting water rates or dropping waste water in the horizon for 3 years threatens very serious repercussions in my assessment, consequences for these water and sewage companies. Because imagine that in the meantime the company is making an effort to modernise its business, e.g. it raises European funds and invests, and therefore a minimum or significant increase in fees for waste water and water is necessary. Previously, this decision was consulted with residents and councillors, there was debate, public consultation. Few of this, the local government unit realizes that this is another financial perspective, which is so generous for Poland in the field of water and sewage management, and you can obtain a grant, a non-refundable grant, even in the amount of... This depends on the type of investment, of course on feasibility study, economic efficiency, but theoretically, whether to be assumed up to 85%. Don't you think it's a little bit of taking competence and taking away the possibilities of rational management of a company that operates in this area? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u48	Thank you very much. I'm asking for answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u49	Senator Slugocki and Senator Gawel... These questions were addressed to me, so I answer them. Mr. Senator, of course with regard to the interference of this law in the functioning of the communes... Well, it's the community's own task, it's no doubt, that's the record. Therefore, if this is a task of its own, it is necessary to give the municipality the opportunity to decide this task. [[Yes, sir.]] You said, Mr. Senator, about the mayors, about the mayors, about the council that they were doing this... There is also a review committee, there are other audit bodies, there is a regional accounting chamber, there is a voivode who controls the resolutions; every resolution adopted by the municipality must be passed within 7 days to the voivodeship. Although the voivode checks it formally and so on, there are bodies that control it and check it. So that there are possibilities here, there's some control over it. Of course, we're different here in the opinion... I'm moving on to what Senator Gaweł said. You said this resolution came in after a certain time, of course. Now what happens? Well, if this price is not accepted, it will be temporary. It will be temporary, for a period of some time, until the Council once again proposes a new price. So much doesn't change here, but the effects are what they are. If it turns out that the operation of a given unit... If this is a commercial law company, a municipality unit 100%, then, of course, as you said here, the company is to earn its profit. If she makes a profit, then she makes a profit for something, then it's just a question of whether it's going to be for those investments. Senator, as I remember, gave some examples here, among other things, that the company in Poznań has probably generated 70 million profits. Yeah, well, it's very good that she worked out, but there's a question of what that profit will do. In the case of Poznań, I know what this profit will be for and why it is collected. So... It must be assumed that, while the EU subsidies we are trying for, this is part of the money that made us change Poland so much that it looks like it... Let's remember the water and sewage economy from a few years ago: how many plants were built in Poland, and small and large; how many waterworks... It's all cost money. Therefore, it is also necessary to raise own funds for investments. Remember, by 2022, we still have a lot of financial opportunities and there will be some more investment. But if we continue to pursue such a policy as we are doing, there will probably be a great deal of difficulty in getting some more money for this type of investment after 2020. However, thanks to them we change Poland. So it's no wonder the company's making profits to keep investing, it's a normal case. So you can't give such examples that there's a high price here, there's a profit too big, because these are individual cases. Each company is controlled, checked by the company's authorities, etc. And that's where you have to look, to examine whether this profit is right, whether it's then well divided, etc. So you can't generalize it. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u50	Thank you very much, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u51	I'll answer Senator Slugocki's question. I don't know if it's in the right order about the financial consequences. There was no mention of this at the committee meeting. I think the Minister here will tell you more about it. With regard to the justification and concerns regarding the 3-year duration of the tariff, the law is so precise as to say... It contains an article. 24j, which explains the case and points out that, in justified cases, documented changes in the economic conditions of the municipality, a water and sewage company may also ask the regulator to change the tariff. So that I wouldn't be afraid of the consequences of the 3-year perspective. However, due to the process of preparing investments and strategic planning, companies of this type should know what they want to do and the three-year period is not a long time when it comes to the implementation of the investment. It is not that one beautiful day the President wakes up in the morning and states that he will make some big investments, only these are long-term processes, planned earlier. That's in answer to that question. There was another question... In fact, there was also a statement from the hall that if the local government wanted to, it would lower the price of water. Well, that's the thing. Some local governments don't want to. And this law we introduce a representative of Polish Waters, who will oblige these local governments to want them more. I will answer Senator Libicki, who asked the question about the scale of the irregularity. It's hard to determine what's an irregularity and what's a regularity. At the very beginning of my report or during my report I gave examples, we still have many of these examples, I could read them now, but there is a lot of that. As I said at the beginning, the lowest total price of cubic meter of water and sewage is 6 zł 56 gr. I am talking about the largest municipalities. The highest 18 zł 1 gr. But according to other materials, 18 PLN 1 gr is not the highest price. Because as I reported, in the case of Szklarska Poręba it is 30 zł 5 gr, and the average price for the voivodship is 10 zł 76 gr, because it concerns the voivodship of Dolnośląskie. And I could read one by one what's more interesting, so to speak, publications. For example: Lubuskie voivodship, the highest price 14 PLN 50 gr, the lowest price 4 PLN 83 gr, these are combined prices. A lot of times... These are certainly not geographical conditions, because these municipalities are based on the materials I read. They are often communes adjacent to each other, which is not the problem of supplying, getting water, but... [[This is water and sewage.]] Yeah, yeah, water and sewage. [[This can be seen what is the area, how many people have and what investments are being made. Please compare this.]] But in comparable municipalities It was me, Senator, who served it at the committee meeting. There were very large differences in the price of 1 m3 with comparable size, surface and construction. I know that, I realize that some local governments have something to fear. I think that those who have made investments and this is economically justified by the price of water have nothing to fear. This data will be analyzed. It's not gonna be like the regulator comes and says, no, you've got a high price of water, you've got to take that much and that's it for the water. Nobody's gonna lead to this kind of situation... Companies must carry out their tasks and, at least, if they are companies governed by commercial law, so to speak, oscillate in the area of a positive financial result. That's what it's all about. So much for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u52	Thank you very much. Senator Slugocki again.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u53	Yeah, yeah, 'cause I can't agree with Senator Grabowski. I do not know where your senator is from, not only, but generally, the lack of trust in 2,000 478 Polish communes, since every 4 years they undergo social verification and receive a mandate to continue their public mission or not to receive it, and why you have so much confidence in parliamentarians. Or maybe I'll say a little perversely and a little cynical. Is there a need for a regulator for politicians, a political class that will decide whether a political class decision is harmful to society or not? Perhaps we need a regulator for direct and indirect taxes? I do not trust the majority of Parliament in Poland and I would like to introduce a regulator. Why don't we put in a regulator? For God's sake, there'll be a regulator in a minute. Well, I ask for a minimum of common sense and trust in Poles, because these decisions are made by Poles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u54	You didn't put the question mark at the end, not even pro forma. [[But it wasn't at the committee meeting.]] Another question. Senator Blackbay. [[And a friend of mine wants to come on Monday?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u55	Mr. Marshal, I'm here to see Senator Grabowski. Mr. Senator, you have made a very important point. [[I'll come anyway.]] You said that many self-governments I wrote down didn't stand up for the residents. Speaking of water, that's what I thought. Since the term "many" is a vague term, I, as a lover of numbers and statistics, would like to ask you about the numbers. Could you give me a number? How many local governments per 2.5,000 municipalities do you know are many, how many are those that do not stand up for the inhabitants when it comes to fixing water prices? Let me remind you, you said this: many local governments in Poland do not defend the inhabitants. That's the first question. Wait, wait, one more thing. Mr. Senator, the profits of the municipal companies in your statement were very negative. If I'm wrong, I'm asking you to correct me. Sounds like something reprehensible. Then explain to me whether the profits of the Treasury companies are good, and the profits of the municipal companies are bad. [[Energy companies...]] [[But we judge the bill, not the senator's statement.]] If I'm wrong, then get me out of him. And the third case. Or maybe not, that's what I'm gonna ask the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u56	Senator Probier.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u57	I'm gonna ask you a question, too, but it's perverse. Doesn't Senator Slugock know that the Senators' regulator is Parliamentary elections every four years for the majority? Thank you. [[And for self-government, who's the regulator? Not a government election?]] [[PiS.]] [[Was it at the committee meeting?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u58	Are there any more questions? I don't see any volunteers. [[That's what I'm talking about, Mr. Senator.]] [[The term of office will be the regulator...]] I'm asking for answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u59	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. It's hard to answer such questions. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Calm down, please!]] About... I'll start at the end. The profit in the case of municipal companies is not bad in my opinion. On the contrary. But, Senator, we're talking about water. I told you before, I don't know if you were there at the time... Because here Senator Florek tried to compare the price of water with the prices of bus tickets in various municipalities, he said that in some municipalities he drove for free. But it's not like I'm gonna say good things that can be compared in some way. For water there is no alternative solution and there is no other choice here except water that is needed, necessary for life. A lot of local governments... Senator Blackbay asked me that question. A lot, a lot, a lot. [[Well, a lot... a lot of it means how much?]] If I said a few, a dozen, a dozen... Well, you can say part of the local government. Because it's... the senator of the minority has said from this speaker that he knows that there are situations... [[What do you think that means?]] ...when it's not justified. No one has conducted such an analysis and research, at least I do not know it, and at the committee's meeting there was no mention of how many local governments have or have obtained unjustified, so to speak, benefits from public utility companies or public utility enterprises which are for the inhabitants. [[Don't go astray.]] I'm not wrong, Senator, I'm not wrong. It's you, Senator, who's going astray right now. As for... well, Senator Probier didn't ask a question. That was the question he answered. So there were these two questions... Was there anything else? No. I think that's it. [[He asked me a question. I don't know why, but...]] Well, that's what happened. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u60	Are there any more questions? Senator Blackbay, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u61	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Well, since you said... I told you not to open new spaces because it's unnecessary, but since... Then tell me what it means to have an unjustified advantage of self-government when it comes to water, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u62	I meant excessive profit for utility companies. [[It's just an unjustified profit.]] That's the concept, Senator. I know that they are often commercial companies, because it is more convenient for local governments, but they are companies that are public utility companies, they are companies owned by the whole society, municipalities, and the administrator, only the administrator, is the governor, the mayor, the president. He shall carry out this task by indicating, in this case, the Supervisory Board which elects the President of the commercial law company shall appoint the President. [[Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u63	Thank you. I don't see any more requests for questions, Senator. Thank you, sir. At present, the senators... Oh, no. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure and Construction and the Minister for the Environment were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does Minister Gajda wish to speak on the bill? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Gajda: Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u64	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! First of all, I would like to say a few words about the idea of setting up a regulator and why we are calling it. Indeed, the results of the audit carried out by the Supreme Audit Chamber, which was carried out in 2015 in large water and sewerage companies in Wroclaw, Szczecin, Poznań and Lublin, showed that there are more or less irregularities related to tariffs in all these companies. As a result of this audit, the Supreme Audit Chamber has drawn clear conclusions. I highly recommend reading this report, also available on the website. The first proposal that was recommended was to establish an external market regulator function at central or regional level, whose tasks would be, for example, Econometric analysis carried out on the basis of data obtained from water and sewage undertakings. What else is interesting about these conclusions? Determination of the profit margin limit established in the tariff applications. There is also another conclusion: if the actual profit exceeds the established profit margin... This should reduce costs in the following financial years. What does that mean? This means that the water and sewerage companies, in the majority of their owners, are the municipalities of the municipality, offering a tariff created according to certain rules. These principles are strictly defined: there is a regulation of the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. I would also like to tell you why I am performing here today, although the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction has been the host here so far. As a result of the adoption of the Act, supervision of collective supply will be placed under the authority of the Minister responsible for water management. Therefore, the government authorized me, the Prime Minister authorized me to present the position of the government in Parliament. There is also a question of how this will be calculated and how it will be checked later. Senator Florek and Senator Libicki, in their statements, have called for such a regulator to arise, because we do not know how many communities there are irregularities. The report actually indicates that 4 companies... that there were irregularities in 4 large municipalities, but we do not know anything at all, so that the best solution would be to introduce a regulator. I would also like to say that the charge of centralization... Please read the NIK report. A referendum on this subject took place in Italy in 2011 and citizens said that there must be a regulator. There's a regulator in Holland, there's a regulator in England and Wales. There's a regulator in Scotland called Scottish Water, which is Polish Water... [[Voice from the room: Scotch.]] Yes, I'm pointing here an analogy to the name: we have Polish Waters, and there are Scottish Water, or Scottish Waters. I had just met with the president of Scottish Water, as I was in the Netherlands recently, and he was talking about the fact that, although this company was established relatively recently, water prices fell by a dozen percent. And the rules were the same everywhere: companies were owned by local governments. I would like to say, because maybe you don't know that the water price regulator will work in three areas: it will give an opinion on the rules of water supply and waste water supply, it will be... It's considered together. The regulator will give an opinion because it is actually the task of the municipalities themselves. In the case of regulations, it will be possible to see if there is any irregularities, whether it is done properly and according to appropriate standards or not. The municipality can hear that opinion, but it doesn't have to. The next step is to approve the tariff. It's not about establishing it, it's about approving it. The water and sewage companies are around 1850 on the national scale This is the result of the report by NIK In fact, it will be necessary for each company to approve the tariff or raise objections. I am not worried about professionals, professionals in Poland are: there are professionals in URE, there are professionals who work in various economic institutions. The control market is now very widely developed and it will really be possible to benefit from these employees. Why in Polish Waters? It is precisely because Polish waters, as the name suggests, are most closely linked to the waters, and also because they do not create new jobs. We do not create new jobs in terms of jobs that would burden the state budget, we will only hire appropriate specialists. That's why it's in the Polish Waters. Of course, a number of questions about the procedure... what I was saying... Because you are accusing that there has been no public consultation that the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission has not spoken. She didn't speak because she didn't want to speak. Yesterday, Mr. Kubalski of the Polish Towns Association made it clear that it was reported, but they said they would not speak. Well, excuse me. [[Because seven days...]] I'm sorry, but they didn't say anything. [[Because they didn't have time.]] That's why... Oh, and yet this tariff and the third extremely important role of the regulator, namely the settlement of disputes between users, consumers and businesses. At the moment, about 100 such applications are being submitted to the UOKiK every year. [[To the courts.]] This regulator will also settle disputes. Of course, if the dispute is not settled, then that's what the Court of Competition and Consumer Protection is for... I don't remember what it's called. I'm so sorry. It's like he's gonna be an appeal body. Ladies and gentlemen, one more thing. Would the opposition want us to abolish the Energy Regulatory Office as part of our deregulation? What happens then? Energy and heat prices are definitely going to rise, aren't they? In that way... I mean, they're also... [[Talking in the O.R.]] As far as heat is concerned, as regards the provision of heat in the collective circuit, it is also the responsibility of the municipality itself and it is the control over it, there are tariffs. What's the bombing? Nobody sees it as an assassination. Now let's imagine that we'll be able to stand the Energy Regulatory Office. That's what the senator said. I think Senator Frost was talking about it. In the case of water and sewage, it is a total monopoly, because there is no alternative... There's an alternative to heat, because you can have a gas stove. possibly install or any other heat source, for electricity there is some competition, but nevertheless there is the Energy Regulatory Office. And here we see clearly and clearly... After all, it is difficult to suspect the Supreme Chamber of Control of any political intentions. It's just that the Supreme Board of Control has established the facts. She found that there was an excessive profit. It noted the financing of various types of events which are not related to the supply of water and waste water and the costs of which should not be costs borne by residents. If the municipality, the local government wants to have an event, a party, then go ahead, but don't let it be so-called. cross-financing. In energy it is very well respected. Energy must not drive e.g. hotel activities or other activities from revenues for electricity. And there are similar rules here. It's nothing but tough economic rules that will be used to control, to approve tariffs, not to shape them. Of course, thanks to this regulator, tariffs will certainly be more rationally shaped. The mere fact that a regulator is created will make the municipalities more robust to draw up tariff proposals. That's why this regulator is very much needed. I ask the High House to approve... to proceed with this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u65	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Mr. Senator Slugocki, then Mr. Senator Libicki and Senator Hare. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal...]] Just a moment, Mr. Senator... [[Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, ……]] Yes? May I? There you go. The Minister's water would like...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u66	Yes, unregulated water wanted a drink from the Minister, please, for the time being, while it's still not regulated and while there's water in our country at all. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Gajda: Thank you very much.]] Minister, let me repeat this question that I asked you, Senator Grabowski, to the rapporteur. I would like to ask what the financial consequences of this law are. Yes, part of you said that Polish Waters would be the regulator, but you also talked about new jobs. The question is how many jobs it will be and how much it will cost. Because we need to be aware that in Poland there are 2 000 478 municipalities and if the regulator really wants to get to know the investment plans and in general the functioning of water and sewage management companies in local government units, then I am afraid for mobility... The question is whether this regulator will not be slow, whether it will stop de facto, e.g. investment processes in these companies, or failure by the regulator, not accepting the rates will threaten some kind of sanction or not, etc., etc. There are many questions that are born and which need to be asked in the context of the rational, economic, efficient operation of water and sewage companies. Yeah, that's not enough. That's the last question. However, will not the regulator reduce the investment process, modernization in many water and sewage companies? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u67	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u68	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, as regards the operating costs of this regulator, as I said, these costs will cover Polish Waters as part of the financial plan, which has been notified before the process of this law, and this will be covered by the operating costs of Polish Waters. [[What do you mean, Minister? After all, this is money that can be used for other purposes...]] Sir, well, you can use it for other purposes, just like any money. You can buy beer, you can buy water... And here... Polish waters take on costs, some of these costs will, of course, be reimbursed... [[What costs? I mean the government of greatness, Minister.]] These are costs estimated at about PLN 10 million per year. Some of these costs will come back in the form of a decision fee, which will be PLN 500, i.e. around 10 million PLN... [[So, the toll burden...]] So, I mean, it's not gonna be a toll burden. [[Talking in the O.R.]] 500 PLN for the decision. One at a time, once every three years, 500 zlotys. [[Every unit...]] Every unit... [[Every company.]] Each company will pay 500 PLN. Exactly 500 PLN for making a decision. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] 500 PLN. And now, in terms of investment... among other things. This is why it is planned for 3 years for the municipalities to anticipate their investments. Of course, investments and costs associated with depreciation of these investments, all the costs associated with handling these investments, and if there are loans here In addition, interest may be included in the tariff costs, and this is without doubt. We care about development. As far as European measures or national non-refundable measures are concerned, some regulation will have to be introduced so that depreciation costs on non-refundable subsidies which are not subject to any tax cannot be counted as tariff costs. They must, of course, be amortized by bookkeeping, but they must not be tariff costs. You just have to be very rational about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u69	Thank you, Minister. Senator Libicki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u70	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, two questions. The first question is this. You referred to the NIK report and said that it concerned 4 water supply companies in Poznań, Wrocław, Lublin and Warsaw. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Gajda: I in Szczecin.]] That's five companies. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Gajda: No. Not in Warsaw.]] Oh, in Szczecin. Good. I understand that on the basis of post-control requests from 4 water supply companies, you are changing the system across the country. Isn't that enough? Isn't the information you've obtained as part of the control of four companies, as I'm going to say, for thin knowledge? That's the first question. Second question. I'd like the Minister to calm me down because I've seen things for the last two years. We set up the National Media Council, and it turned out that the National Media Council was serving PiS. We have established the Polish National Foundation. The targets were noble. Why is she serving now? We can see that. I'm afraid of such a thing. I'm being honest with you. That before these regulations enter into force, we will be in the middle of an election campaign and at some point it will turn out that the wrong local governments are overpriced the price of water. Then there will come a good regulator appointed by the government majority, who just before the election will relieve the population. I would like you to reassure me and assure me that there will be no such political exploitation of the new existence. Calm me down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u71	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u72	Thank you very much. As regards the 4 companies, please note one thing: Lublin is in the east, Wrocław is in the southwest, Szczecin is in the northwest, and Poznań is located in the middle of Poland. NIK tried to select representative companies. I'm in the business of... I've been a water engineer since 1980, and I've been very familiar with my professional practice. It's all kinds of conditions. I can say, I can say almost unambiguously, that wherever we look at any large water and sewage company, we would notice activities similar to those described by the Supreme Audit Chamber. I'm not talking about small municipalities, I'm not talking about villages where problems are often, I'd say the opposite. That's what the senator was asking. It's kind of a confirmation that you need to get a regulator in here. The municipalities that make good and fair conclusions really have nothing to fear. I'm also saying this in the context of the second question. I do not think politically, I think about the fact that people in Poland do not feel price increases in water and sewage.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u73	Senator Hare. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u74	Thank you very much. Minister, I have appreciated your expertise in this area for years, hence my questions at yesterday's committee meeting. The environment has not fully understood the idea of the law and the need for speed of change in the wider management of waters. Previously, it was about water law, and now we're talking about the Water Supply Act. We all know that in Poland water resources are not increasing. Will statutory changes in any way improve the situation? If so, how? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u75	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u76	Thank you very much, Senator. Well, it is not a coincidence that these two laws enter into force in parallel. I must say here that I was the initiator of the fact that the collective supply of water and the discharge of waste water would go under the supervision of the Minister responsible for construction under the supervision of the Minister responsible for water management. The point is, we have to balance water resources all the time. Please note that one of the elements of the tariff proposal is the balancing of the water resource. This is extremely important and therefore the proposals are kind of for 3 years. The point is, in three years, there's no shortage of water. This is particularly important in small municipalities. Warsaw will manage even if there is drought, because there is Fat Kaśka, taking infiltration water. If we compare the flows in the Vistula with the needs, we'll see that with a minimum flow rate of 100 times... More water flows in the Vistula than the city needs. But there are many other municipalities, e.g. In Kujawy I had such signals that they lack water. Therefore, these municipalities must predict that they should also look for new water shots. There's one more thing you can say here. Yesterday it was held in the Seym... There was another NIK report on water supply in critical situations. And there are also such conclusions that it is necessary to diversify the sources of water supplied.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u77	Thank you. Senator Augustine, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u78	Minister, it's been years since I was a self-government officer, but I remember this change very well. Each company, when presenting a tariff to a local government authority, is likely to be explained in the same way. That is to say, it is explained by the law which obliges it to ensure a minimum profitability for the company. It is defined as a percentage, it cannot go below these thresholds. And now the Minister says this: well, don't be afraid, after all, we will act wisely, in fact nothing will change if someone does everything right... [[Voice from the room: And honest.]] ...and fair. On the other hand, you say: well, yes, but the law will have to be modernised, because it turns out that depreciation is included from EU and national non-refundable funds. Well, Minister, my question is this: wouldn't it make more sense to reach the regulation and change it so as to achieve in a simpler way what you are going to achieve than to introduce a regulator without amending the regulation to see that local governments are doing it according to art? I think the logic of this and this is completely different. You are not doing what you want, but you are doing something that, in fact, according to your words, will not change anything in the case of most local governments.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u79	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u80	Thank you very much. We are preparing a draft regulation in parallel, amendments to this regulation. Regulation is an implementing act for this act. If this law enters into force, the water minister will be the host of the law. And then we can amend this regulation. We already have the draft regulation. As soon as this law enters into force, we will report it to the list of legislative work so that this regulation can enter into force as soon as possible and that companies can... so that the municipalities can submit appropriate tariff applications. [[Mr. Marshal, can I ask you something?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u81	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u82	Will this mean giving up regulation? Because now that we know everything in the regulation, what else will the regulator evaluate?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u83	No. The controller will check the individual components, whether they are properly calculated by indicators.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u84	Senator Rotnicka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u85	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I, too, will appeal to the NIK report, Minister. He audited 5 municipalities: Kraków, Wrocław, Poznań, Szczecin and... [[Voice from the room: Lublin.]] ...Lublin. [[The voice from the hall: Aha, there are five, because Krakow...]] And the general conclusion is that in a situation where the municipal authority or the commune council did not fulfil, according to NIK, the good function of the regulator, the inhabitants suffered damage, paying more for used water. But at the same time, NIK notes that at the time this government had to pay the prices, it had to cover those losses that the company had lost, paying from the municipality's budget on the waterworks. So the effect is that the local government would either have a lower price of water, or would have returned this price of water. So what's the relationship? And if we take the case now, I may be so frivolously translating to write an article. 19 of this bill we're talking about... There is a statement that, in turn, the council of the municipality lays down rules of procedure for the supply of water, etc. Can't you see, Minister, here there's a possibility for the council of the municipality to control prices through the regulations of water supply? Can't you? it was different than taking away the property they had from local governments. Because it was their task as municipalities, providing good conditions for access to water, etc.? So this translation, which the Ministry is proposing, is not so fully convincing. The basis for this, let's say, is perhaps other reasons, such that the Ministry would like to have such a large authority over everything that is happening in the municipalities. And I take part in what we're talking about, in the way that it's taking some power away from governments. I have no amendment here because I believe that even if she were, she would not gain acceptance, but let me share this view of the case. And I'd love to hear the Minister's position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u86	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u87	Thank you very much. Senator, this isn't taking power away from the communes. The municipalities, as they have so far, have adopted regulations for water supply and waste water discharge. And this regulation is only rated by the regulator. Just an opinion. Because in fact this regulation may contain elements that will then affect the price of water and sewage, well, depending on quality, etc.. And it is not said at all that this regulation will be good in minus or in plus when it comes to the price. Because it could be different. The role of the regulator will be in this case As is the case, for example: in Scotland, because there is a very similar system of assessment of the quality of the services provided. And in this opinion will be included, whether the regulations according to the regulator, i.e. Polish Waters, are appropriate, whether it contains good records or contains bad records. And such an opinion will be sent to the municipality, which may take this opinion into account, but does not have to, because it is only an opinion. And only then will the tariff be approved, she will also be adopted by a resolution of the commune council. So that here we absolutely do not take control over water. Absolutely not.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u88	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u89	Miss Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Here, perhaps two or three times, the example of Szklarska Poręba as a self-government, which has very high prices. But it can be explained: scattered housing plus rock close to the surface of the ground, difficult conditions, just expensive network. And so my question. Because, in general, here, the calling of this state regulator is about us, as residents, paying less. That's how I understand it. But it may be that even the regulator will not help if the company has to pay off the loans it has incurred for the construction of the network. Minister, do you see any way out of such a situation that the municipality does not build a network, does not invest in a network of its money, possibly borrowed or European, but builds this network, and then really in the form of a paratax, those who use water simply repay the loans that this company has received? And the effect is that we have expensive water, expensive sewerage, and the municipality can show itself that, as it used to be, it's less than 60%. debt. Because yes, in quotes, a good host ruled that he couldn't afford it... Well, right now it's a sewer, because when it comes to water supply, it's less frequent. But for example. for the plumbing of one of the villages. Couldn't this be the way it is done, which is to go even deeper, so to reason, and to ban investment above a certain level by the company? Because the company is supposed to deliver water, not multiply wealth. The estate stays in the land, after all, it is the property of the commune. None of those people who drink this water will take the pipe with them when they leave this area.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u90	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u91	Thank you very much. Well, that's such a difficult question and such a problematic question. On the one hand, in the case of such scattered buildings, there are often demands of the inhabitants that they want to have this water and want to drain the sewage. On the other hand, the opposite is true: knowing how much it will cost them, they do not want to join the new networks. And there are examples of that too. It is difficult to resolve such situations by law, from which is the local government, to examine whether people want to do the same, because sometimes they do not, and they build kilometres of sewage, instead of allowing, for example. for the construction of domestic sewage treatment plants. So it's hard to answer that question. There is one more thing I can draw attention to, but of course there will also be the voluntaryity of local governments. Well, for example, it's arranged. This company pays the municipality, or its founder, a 2% tax on buildings and buildings. And these are often very significant costs. If the municipality really wanted to take care of the interests of the residents, this is one way to reduce... Because the law specifies the maximum amount of this tax, and the municipality sets the local tax in any way by its resolution. And that's also one of the elements. However, it is difficult to ban these companies from investing. But it's quite... I think it's legally impossible.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u92	Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u93	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Referring to the Minister's extensive experience, I'd like to ask... Minister, if we're talking about a big investment venture, whether it's a water treatment station or a water treatment plant for a medium-sized city, then from the moment I say it's a decision-making process, preparation, arrangements, etc., implementation... How long, according to the Minister, does the whole process take from the idea to the realization, i.e. from kindergarten to Opole? How many years has this trial been going on? That's the first question. And the other. Minister, do you have any knowledge of today's water pricing procedure? Suppose the company proposes prices to the municipality council, and the municipality council does not adopt a resolution approving these prices. What's going on? Could you give us a closer look at the procedure, if you know what it looks like in the event of the municipality's failure to approve the price offered by the company?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u94	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u95	Thank you very much. How many years does this investment take? Well, from the observations I've had lately, it appears that about five years of this kind of investment continues... [[What about three years' change of fare?]] Yeah, every three years. But I would like to draw attention to this article. 19... I don't remember the letter That says that the tariff can be changed, among other things. in the event of a change in the economic situation. So in the case of an investment like this... If it turns out that e.g. During these 3 years, the municipality will take action and endeavour to invest, it may submit a request and it is as reasonable as possible to make an old tariff as if to end and set a new tariff. To tell you the truth, I don't really know this procedure, but I don't want to introduce you to the senator. It's a mistake, because I don't know the rest of this procedure. [[Let's just say...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u96	I'm sure the senator knows her, so she'll say. [[Yeah, I hope I do.]] Well, that's a trick question. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I know she's a little different than Senator Gaweł said. I'll tell you in the debate.]] Good. Thank you very much. Senator Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u97	A very short question, Minister, and perhaps it does not exactly apply to these tariffs. But as far as investment costs are concerned and the supply of networks or water supply or sewerage are concerned, does it exist at the moment? Is it possible that this has been changed? The law that it is a duty to connect every household, every user to that network? After all, some investments are not made only for the investment itself. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Gajda: I must say that...]] If there is no such law, it would probably be worth introducing it by law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u98	Exactly, and that's problematic. Often such an obligation is, so to speak, imposed by the council of the municipality, but there does not seem to be any statutory obligation. That's what I know. It's also kind of problematic. [[Voice from the room: And if someone doesn't want to plug in...]] Exactly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u99	Thank you. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u100	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, Senator Zając also mentioned that water resources are... are not limitless. We know that, which is why it was always said that this price should be real, so as to save on this water. And now my question is this: will these fees to the Polish Water Company, which will now enter into force, in your opinion will affect prices, on water tariffs in individual municipalities?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u101	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u102	These charges will have no impact on this since they are already being paid by water and sewage undertakings. They will not increase so that they will not affect the price of water. He'll be here soon. The Council of Ministers regulation on the rates of these charges is already in progress and they are planned at the same level as so far. They are even slightly reduced due to the fact that before there was a distinction between surface and underground water. At the moment there is no distinction and the rate accepted for underground water is the same as the previous rate for surface water. Most companies use underground water and in fact these water resource charges will decrease.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u103	Thank you. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u104	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have another question about the tasks that you will be carrying out under the new rules on this central regulator. Tell me, Minister, how to think about shaping water prices in Poland would be the idea that instead of approving the tariff for water prices, which you indicated as the second task of the regulator, this would be considered. I'm talking about a situation where the council gets it from an independent regulator or some other institution... [[Voice from the room:...opinion.]] ...an opinion on whether the price is properly shaped or not. We are moving towards a civil state here. State institutions provide knowledge and information and do not decide for residents. How do you feel about this possibility of shaping the role of the State in the price of water?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u105	I have to say, there were two concepts. One concept was about the opinion, which is what the senator was talking about, and the other about the approval decision, and based on the opinion of the UOKiK... no one else but the UOKiK suggested that the opinion would not be respected at all. Perhaps after some time this regulator will be able to change the law, move from decision to opinion. For now, local governments need to learn a little bit.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u106	Thank you. I have a question too. Minister, at the moment the task of this regulatory authority is carried out by the President of the National Management Board of Water Management, and here we are talking about the establishment of the State Water Farm of Poland. What does that mean? I don't think that changes anything. Is this a new agency or just a change of name? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Gajda: May I, Mr. Marshal?]] Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u107	So, Mr. Marshal, this is a transitional provision because the Polish Waters will rise on 1 January 2018. The Act may enter into force a little earlier and then the President of the National Water Management Board will deal with this until the end of the year. The National Water Farm of Poland, which will be created next year, will be a state-owned legal entity in the public finance sector, which will deal with all water management issues. It will be a structure in the water catchment system, hierarchical. There will also be a separate National Water Management Board, regional water management boards, there will be 11 of them, and about 50 water reservoir management boards throughout the country. The functions and competences will be taken over from the management board of melioration and water equipment. The point is that the shaft and the river are in one hand. [[Yeah, it's just...]] But he'll also be a water licensing authority. [[So it's not gonna be an agency?]] No. This is state... [[It's gonna be a government organ, right?]] Yes. [[A separate, separate government body?]] Yes. [[Therefore, do you anticipate an increase in the number of posts, a reduction in the number of posts in relation to their current number?]] As a matter of fact... [[How many jobs are there gonna be in this...]] There will be, as we predict, about 6 thousand jobs in the entire State Waters So there's a $1,000 500 job reduction.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u108	Thank you. Senator Hare. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u109	Thank you very much. Now I have this question: do the voivodship managements of melioration with all their resources form part of the Polish Waters together with the RZGW? And what other entities? And second question. Actually, it's my assessment at the end of that discussion yesterday at the committee meeting. Let's get back to the title of the bill. The law is entitled: collective supply of water and collective discharge of waste water, i.e. the supply of water and the collection of waste water. And we mainly focused on the fees that the municipalities will set and what the beneficiaries will bear. In my opinion, all these changes in water law or this law concern the ordering of this extremely important for the economy and for the life of Poles the environment, which is water. Because it's known that it's all about industry, the municipal economy, the residents, but it's also about environmental protection. In my opinion, the intention of all these changes is precisely the concern for water resources and for the proper management of water, and one of the elements is to set such prices that they are both acceptable to water users and suitable to run businesses that care about this supply and the collection of waste water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u110	Thank you for explaining, too. But the question wasn't... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Gajda: There was one question: what else...]] There you go. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Gajda:...what other entities...]] Oh, yeah, there was a question: what entities enter into this... [[I asked what was coming in...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u111	The management board of melioration and water equipment is coming in, yes. Except for the Podkarpackie Voivodship Not with all the possessions, but people pass through... [[And why don't you just...]] I mean, it's good in Podkarpackie, 'cause they go in with everything... [[Oh, they're coming in with everything.]] ...and in other voivodships unfortunately, mostly only people are transferred without the remaining assets. And then there's the old-timers and marshals who issued water permits. From the old days... [[Oh, so that's part of the environmental department?]] Yeah, some of the environmental departments from the old days. [[Because somehow we haven't talked about this before, and it's pretty important for both environments.]] Yes. [[Because even if you allow the marshal, I...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u112	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u113	Because we rarely see the Minister because they have a lot of work to do. And I would like to say that there was such a concern that actually Polish water will create only a company from RZGW, which was not well received by all those who are concerned about the state of the water in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u114	Because the Minister was... Doesn't it come from RZGW? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Gajda: Yes, I was once in Gdansk...]] Yeah, that's why they're sure... [[I've known the Minister longer than your marshal.]] Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u115	Minister, I would like to repeat the question I asked the Senator of the rapporteur. Namely, I would ask you to refer to the opinion expressed by the Chamber of Commerce of Poland, which points out that the conditions for changing tariffs are very ambiguous and that this may lead to the fact that tariffs being set fairly arbitraryly by the regulator will be set. This is the first part of the question. And two. What are the guarantees of this regulator's independence? Because if this is the government agenda, what are the guarantees of independence of its decisions? These 2 questions I ask together, because of course they are related.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u116	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u117	Thank you very much. As we have said, this regulation will be based on a regulation that needs to be amended, setting out what costs may be eligible for the tariff. This is such a first base. Secondly, it will indeed be control specialists who will simply check in a substantive manner... [[Official.]] ... certainly not political, these prices, for example through the first verification of indicators: employment rate, average wage rate, energy price index, cost index per km of network, etc., etc. We are already developing some algorithms on how to do this first verification. Similarly, in the case of the Energy Regulatory Office there were also some problems at the beginning, but it seems difficult to say now that the Energy Regulatory Office is a political institution. [[But he has a guarantee of independence.]] We have a guarantee of independence, too. Polish waters are also an institution of poly... will be an institution... They won't be a political institution. I'm sorry. The regional water management boards are not political institutions, as they are now. Take a look, go into the field. The people who work there have different views, but try to do their duties as best as possible, well, a little bit unlike the employees of some departments of drainage and water equipment, which under the authority of the marshal... well, halfway, some have often become political institutions. [[That's your opinion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u118	All right. I'm the one with the other questions. Because that's why I asked what the legal form of these Polish Waters is, whether it's an agency. You said no, it's not an agency, it's a legal person. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Gajda: Yes, state...]] State legal person, good. But is this a separate office?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u119	Yeah, that's... [[This is a separate office?]] A separate office. [[Okay...]] A separate office... [[Which minister, of course, oversees, but only supervises?]] Yeah, yeah, I'm supervising.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u120	Now for the question... Mr. Senator Grabowski. You're welcome to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u121	Thank you. Minister, I'm sorry, short. My question was raised by Senator Alice Zając, which will be more connected with the Polish Waters. Minister, if you would just say a few words, what are the rules of these district workers? 'Cause it's a valuable piece of information. They're going to go to the Polish Waters... Are these agreements, or is that what I'm going to say, based on the work code? Will contracts be terminated in the Old Towns, or will they be, so to speak, working in the Old Towns, being employees of Polish Waters? How's that gonna be organized? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u122	I'll fill in the blanks. There's a recipe, I mean. He was, but he's probably in the work code, art. 131... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Gajda: Art. 231.]] Art. 231... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Gajda: Yes, art. 231.]] Are they gonna go through that? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Gajda: Yes.]] Because I understand that when it comes to Podkarpackie, everyone goes through and probably goes through art. 231... [[From the melioration, the provincial management of the melioration...]] I see. But they're probably going through art. 231, which applies when everyone passes through, the whole institution passes. But in other places, the part will pass, hi no. One-and-a-half thousand people won't get through. So what's the mechanism here?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u123	I have to say that the marshals have the right to give a list of all the employees and the old men, too, but from what we can see, not all of them will pass. But those on the list are going to go with the article. 231. [[I understand, but the decision is...]] ...on the side of the marshal and the old-fashioned who passes... [[The proposal, and the decision that this new office is taking, I guess...]] No, the Polish waters must take them all... [[Oh, they have to. That's what I'm talking about.]] Yeah, yeah, they have to take everyone. [[On the basis of an article. 231.]] On the basis of an article. 231, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u124	Thank you. Senator Blackbay. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u125	Minister, we've come up with such a note of great generality... You said a very interesting thing about the political side. And I would like to ask you: after a good change has taken place, i.e. the governments present, how many heads of government have changed in Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u126	How many have changed? 7 RZGW... [[Everyone. Well, thank you.]] [[What are you talking about?]] No, no, wait a minute, Mr. Senator... [[The Minister answers, it's not...]] [[Oh, 'cause I thought...]] On 28 September in Szczecin, Director Andrzej Kreft, after 25 years as Director, retired at the age of 70. The director in Gliwice hasn't changed. The director in Gdansk changed, Mrs. Czarnecka retired. Recently there has only been a change in Krakow, also connected with a generational exchange... [[Right.]] [[Well, if someone's retired...]] In Warsaw Also related to generational change. Somewhere else, the directors haven't changed. So here... [[They've gone to retirement...]] [[Mr. Director, if I may once again: for this number of RZGWs which are in Poland, how many have changed the directorate, regardless of whether due to generational change or for other reasons?]] [[They just went to retirement!]] Two people changed in the first period and two more in the remaining period.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u127	That's four people. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Gajda: 4 persons.]] [[Seven.]] Thank you, Minister. [[Thank you.]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Gajda: Thank you very much.]] I don't see any more questions. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. [[He's a water specialist.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u128	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Personally, I believe that regulations on access to the goods we absolutely need are necessary. I am a strong supporter of the regulated economy in those sectors on which we are dependent Health, medicines, water, energy, lately probably also the Internet, all that we cannot function without and where a completely free market is not a good idea. But regulations can, of course, be applied in very different ways. And the first thing I would like to say here is that today these tariffs, which are proposed by the municipalities, are not regulated. But of course they are regulated, governed by law, regulated by regulation and regulated by local authorities. They are regulated. Please do not mislead me by saying that we are only now introducing regulation. We're changing the way we regulate. We centralize this regulation by introducing uniform rules. And now the question is, is this the right method? I have tried to demonstrate here, on the basis of the Minister's words, that, in fact, where the regulation is applied, where the rules of the game are applied, as they should be applied, as it should be believed, in the vast majority of local governments, there, in truth, these new regulations will only worship work, completely unnecessary to no one, without the slightest result. And so maybe 90%. cases. Okay, but let's not underestimate the others. I think you're going about this completely the wrong way. If, indeed, under this regulation and today's laws, the limits of common sense and the interests of citizens can be exceeded, then let us amend this regulation. You don't have to bother the House here, you can do it right away. But what you can do right away is not done. That's what's supposed to be done. If the Minister had come here and said that they counted the wrong costs, so we are changing the regulation and doing this will no longer be possible, then I would have believed your good intentions. And I don't believe it, I don't believe it, because if you want to do what you're talking about in front of an open court, you're going to have a normal, regular consultation as it should be, and you're not making some kind of mockery out of a consultation where you give your partners 7 days to express your opinion. Don't be surprised that serious partners refused cooperation in this area with you, because this is disregard, this is pretending to be a consultation. I'm asking the Minister why you did that. Because the fact that you did is a fact. Why did you do that? This is the key question that leads me to what I would like to end this speech. First of all, because you don't appreciate the state of these partners. You don't value local governments, you don't value these companies and you don't care about their opinions, because you know better. I think the real purpose of this bill is not to fix what the Minister was talking about, it's not because it's going to be achieved, but through something else. By means of a regulation to be amended. This is how this will be achieved. Another objective is to gradually reduce the power of local governments, making them dependent on government institutions in their operation. This is an expression of this distrust, and we already have a whole range of examples of environmental protection and water management, and the powers of local governments are transferred to the level of government authority, political power. Speaking of which, I am in favour of impartial regulation on water, I also meant that these regulations should be introduced by an independent regulator. Well, ladies and gentlemen, today's Rzeczpospolita reports that... This opposition, which I meant here, is not the independence that is in the case of the Energy Regulatory Office, is becoming obsolete because it has been revealed that there is a project to delete the independence of this office. So perhaps it was unnecessary for me to give this example. It seems to me that local authorities have the right to be concerned, as it will be easy to use weapons of supposed intervention in regulations to respect the powers of local authorities, to attack them with an argument that they are in disagreement with the interests of the inhabitants. This was due to the Minister's statement, because the Minister already says: should there be other investments rather than those which the local government has made? And that already shows what the motivation for this office could be. So he's gonna say, "Well, why the company?" And this was also the result of Senator Grabowski's statement. Why is this municipality investing its own money in this, and you're passing it on to the people in the form of a tariff? And that's a political evaluation! This is not a substantive assessment. This is what I am afraid of, which is that this new institution, this new regulator, instead of giving real protection to consumers, will actually be used to deprive local governments of their ability to decide and, when it is convenient, to undermine their actions, using political arguments as well. The Minister sneaked over here just about my question, what are the guarantees of independence, he didn't say anything about them. 'Cause they're not here! The Minister also did not refer completely to the fact that the criteria are not precise. 'Cause that's what they are. And they're not by chance. I'm sure they'd be criticized by local governments. That's why there was no consultation. Because that's what these criteria are supposed to be! That's what the designers are going to do. That is why I consider this project to be a failure, one which, as we have seen before, declares otherwise as a goal and another wants to achieve. And here. As we've seen it here many times. We hear the substantive justification, and then we see the political goals in the implementation. I'm afraid that's the case in this case and that this law opens up a path like this. And it can be said that I have never once been wrong in such an assessment, standing here and saying that it is something completely different than what it is said that it wants to be realized. In this case, I fear, unfortunately, this will also be the case: the politically or subjugated office to regulate something will be used to assess the local authorities and not to protect the interests of the residents.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u129	Thank you, Senator, and please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! During this term of office, I am actually increasingly standing here as a person who has many years of experience in local governments, so that I am talking about the state of the Senators of Law and Justice. It's always made clear that whether you want it or not, I don't get into it anymore, but you're going towards a centrally controlled state. And if, as Senator Augustine said, we want a certain element of the state's role to influence what is involved in the supply of water, which should, of course, be the responsibility of the state in certain areas. It is important to build laws, Minister, so as to leave this subjectivity of local governments. So if what I asked you... If these are the two elements that the Minister was talking about and which I consider to be good in the context of the state's role in relation to local governments That is, the opinion on the Rules of Procedure... Because there may be local governments that do not have properly qualified staff, and you have more staff, you have better access to things, so you help local governments to make decisions about regulations. And I understand that this is the building of a civil state, the state authority is helping citizens at a lower level to build correct relations, both technical and functional. As far as the price is concerned, the opinion-making role and the arbitration role could be attributed here. This is building the role of the state towards the citizen. Here we have a service, not, Minister, an example of driving and determining that it is going to be yes, yes and yes. This is a completely different philosophy when it comes to the role of state authorities vis-à-vis citizens, local organisations, NGOs, etc. A lot of fantastic words came out here today. On the question of one of the senators, whether you provide independence, you said something like this, Minister: well, I can actually say yes, because the honest and properly functioning have nothing to fear. I'll tell you what. In such discussions about the prosecutor's office, about the police, about creating a police state, Marshal Borusewicz quoted a story. Because the officers of power in the previous system said to him, "Borusewicz, you have nothing to be afraid of, because we do not put honest people to jail." And they put him in jail. So that's not a guarantee, Minister. Society is built on a permanent basis when the authorities respect all... The functions assigned to the central authority shall be fulfilled. Now you're building another central authority. On what grounds? At 2.5,000 municipalities, NIK examined 5, so from a geographical point of view, as you said, north, east, west, south... Well, beautifully, five different parts, but in the statistical context, this applies to 5 municipalities per 2.5 thousand. I don't care what percentage it is. You are taking certain actions based on a completely false image, false from the point of view of statistics and mathematics. Now the issues raised in the rapporteur's speech are such that some municipalities have not learned to become in the interests of the inhabitants. You say we'll teach them how to defend the interests of the people. The Minister also gave as a good example that he spoke with a representative of a similar institution in Scotland. After all, such examples can be multiplied, but if someone reads, as Portugal was, they will see that it was exactly the opposite. For political and populist reasons, an institution such as the one you will be running has been undermining the price for many years in order to please the citizens. Companies are in huge trouble, and to this day they are in huge trouble in terms of water quality, water supply, etc. Examples can be juggled, and we as Poles in our wisdom should carry out tasks that are assigned to communities. Minister, the communes must be supported, not taken away from them. There is no need to quote other decisions that are made at central level • these decisions always have a political note, whether you like it or not. I believe that you were not chosen as a result of a political decision, but as a result of a professional decision. I believe that 60% or 70% The people who have passed away... I believe that the heads of RZGW have not left. as a result of a political decision, only because their management time is simply over. I happen to know the opinion of Director Czarnecka, and I know it was the other way around, but maybe... It may have been a coincidence, Minister, that the director has been politically under attack. You are funding Poles another central institution, which will cost no less than 10 million. Well, that's 10 million, a couple of jobs, and you're gonna play with the municipalities to set the price of water. I mean... Why are you jeopardizing the cost of the state? I mean, you can do it. In my introduction, I was talking about what role you should play. There's a procedure. I didn't exactly check it out, because there wasn't enough time, but, as Senator Gawel says, there is a certain role for your voivode when the council of the municipality opposes the proposed price. There is a procedure and the voivode has a role to play. If she is too small, let's increase the role of the voivode, the office that will settle certain matters, but let's not create a central institution that will be Poles in Kwidzyn, my beloved city, talking about how much the price of water should be. As far as the price set in energy is concerned, I believe that this is also too centralized and we could consider the loosening of local decision-making. You are moving to the next stage of centralism, the taking of competence, the building of central institutions, which will also be subject to political decisions. Therefore, in my opinion, this regulation will not bring anything good to the citizens in Poland. Because if we want to answer that question... Minister, answer this question. If we obliged local governments, companies to present prices and there would be a scientific, economic and financial koreferaty about the projects submitted, you would not have to create them. It is simply necessary to commit them to the fact that the commune council is also presented with opinions of various kinds of institutions which may comment. So that the solutions in this case can be x, and you're going the easy way. There's a problem, it's a central institution, 10 million and we're gonna manage it. Well, then, I suggest... by abstracting from the job that the Minister is doing, we now have a problem with food prices. The great post-war economist, I think his name was Hilary Hinc or something, I'm not familiar with those names. He regulated all these... [[Hilary, I think...]] Not Hilary? Minc, I think. Yeah, Minc. So he regulated. So let's go this way, folks. After all, food prices are so galloping, starting with the price of butter, that we would actually need to look at those who shape excessive profits when it comes to the butter market. Therefore, it may be worth considering and going this way so that you can set up a central price setting office. You have already set up so many central offices, starting with the Institute of Freedom, which, as a government institute, monitors NGOs, that it is very, very close to Orwell. And the last two comments. Minister, you said that it was found that some part of the profit had been allocated to events and celebrations that took place in the municipality of X, which I believe was also the subject of the development of NIK. I would like to say that I very much like the Minister's attention, but I would ask you to do so, but I don't know if you are. implement At the meeting of the government, he reported to those supervising Polish companies of the Treasury to finance only the projects to which they were appointed, i.e. not to finance various projects of foundations, projects promoting good courts, etc., etc., but only to do what they were called to do. And if we measure all companies in Poland with the same measure, then, I think, we are going in the right direction. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]] And the other one... I didn't have time to ask that question, Minister, but I'd like to ask it now, and I'd be very grateful if the Minister would answer it at a break or in writing. Minister, you said in your speech that the money that the company receives as a subsidy from the European Union is included in the balance sheet, but cannot absorb... [[Mr. Senator, time's up.]] Yes, I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. Is he gonna be able to amortize? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Gajda: Yes.]] Yeah, well, if you can do that... Well, then, Mr. Marshal, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u131	Thank you, Senator. You have a voice, Senator Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! So in one sentence, summing up all these actions and recent laws that we are proceeding in the Senate, I can say that you don't like the state, you don't really like local governments. And that cake that's... You're trying to cut as much as you can out of this cake. Recently, for example, a regional environmental fund. Well, we already know the new presidents who have been appointed, because mostly there are staff exchanges. That's what the bill is for. So you want to control everything, control everything. I gave the example of public transport here. The senator said it was something else. For me, it's nothing else, and I'm waiting for the public transport regulator to be introduced, because you, Senator, said that the water is what everyone uses, and when it comes to public transport, someone can walk, they don't have to take the bus. But I'm sorry, how am I supposed to... You were talking about poor people. Like a poor man who makes little money and has a mile to go... Are you suggesting that he walks those 5 kilometers in the morning for an hour? For health it may be good, indeed, we may be able to spend less money on health. I want him to walk five kilometers to work in the morning and then five kilometers back... This is quite the same situation. You were talking about excessive profit, about some individuals... Okay, we want to discuss it, then let's discuss it. These are self-government units. We can discuss Orlen, KGHM, and so on, the profits they're there. This is a broader discussion, so I don't want to get into it. I'm going to refer to this case of ours, the regulator. First, the regulations and tariffs you spoke of. The Rules of Procedure are known It's just an opinion, because it's a community task, so there's nothing more you can do. There must therefore be an opinion. Now the regulator. Once at the committee meeting, the representative of NIK, I no longer remember her name, spoke about the fact that some regulator is really needed. And we think we need him, too. An example of URE has been given. Here I'm a little worried because URE was a little independent, had certain guarantees of independence, those members could be called off, but Just like Senator Augustine said here. There's an assassination attempt on the URE, on its functioning, which means it's clear that this independent body... If that were the case, we could discuss it, but if it is to be in the Polish Waters company, and it is known how it is subordinate in the hierarchy, then how can we talk about independence here. There will be discretion on the regulator's side, what he will consider will be. There won't be any other way. If it considers that the tariff is too high and does not approve, it will not approve. And these different reasons will be... You've been talking about these three years, about investments. I'm sure there's an exception, Mr. Minister said if there were any reason for it to be sooner, then yes, but I'll explain myself, I'll have to pursue it, and I don't know if that discretion on the side of the official... whether it's justified or not, whether I'm going to have to write more letters, keep doing correspondence, etc. I don't know. Therefore, this body, if any, should be typically independent, completely independent and not located in the Polish Waters company. Ladies and gentlemen, what's been going on so far... There may have been cases, but here we're talking about a small number, I don't know, I don't remember exactly, there was even a number at the committee meeting, someone said about 0.5%. or something like that. In any case, we are talking about a small number of cases where no one has actually shown any shortcomings. That's what NIK controls are for. I didn't meet no one's control, after which there wouldn't be anything written in the results. Although in my experience I can say that very often when it comes to NIK inspections, and many times I have had this opportunity when I appealed and it was different, because it is not an oracle either, it is not that those who are there, actually the best professionals and know... You can discuss it, too. The NIK has made a reasonable proposal to protect a little of us all that some regulator should be, but we are talking about it being independently located and somehow functioning differently if you think that this regulator that has been so far is wrong. I gave an example, among others. public transport. If we want to continue this, I can give you further examples in a moment, examples of the next regulators. If we want to continue centralizing everything, having control over everything, having control over everything, that is a good direction, you can agree to the next steps that you are doing, that the independent government will be subject to the actions that you are taking. In conclusion, once again, I would like to say that really in a situation where there were only individual, few cases... They were shown by NIK's control, and some actions were suggested. These actions could have been taken. It was also possible to control individuals better in some other way. There could have been, I don't know, an independent review of the specification that's being prepared. This could be resolved in different ways, but you have gone the easiest way, which means there will be a government dependent, there will be people who will be omnibuses, who will know each other well and who will guarantee us that the right decisions are being made. And like us locals, we're gonna want to appeal to them, so... There will always be a chance that this will last for four years until the end of the term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u133	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act establishing the multiannual programme Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań 2004 The text of the Act is contained in print No. 616, and the report of the committee In print No 616 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Robert Gawl, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The draft is a parliamentary submission and was adopted by the Sejm at its meeting on 12 October this year. The Committee on Science, Education and Sport discussed this project on 12 October. The aim of the Act is to extend the implementation period of the multiannual programme under the name of the University of Warsaw until the end of 2019. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań 2004 According to the justification of the project, the reason for extending the duration of the programme is to enable the two tasks covered to be completed. It is about buying two plots and completing the construction of Poznań-Morasko University sports facilities. The explanatory memorandum stresses that these tasks were not carried out within the deadline for reasons beyond the control of the university. It is worth remembering that the legislator extends the duration of the programme for the third time. The programme was originally to be implemented by the end of 2011. The extension of the programme's implementation period would not affect its scope in substance and the commitment of resources from the State budget. For those concerned, the money is transferred from the pool of funds not used to the special reserve. This is about PLN 5 million 649 thousand, because the amount of PLN 14 million 634 thousand is the institution's own resources. As for the progress of the legislative work and the comments of the Senate Legislative Office, I will say that the Act does not raise objections. At the committee meeting, too, the project did not raise much controversy. It was explained that by 2019 the investment will be completed, i.e. the construction of a sports hall in the large Morasko complex in Poznań. So much for the committee report. All the senators in the courtroom were in favour of this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u135	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. The bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? There is no such declaration. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u136	Minister, I just want to make sure... There's a two-year shift here. Did Senator Gaweł talk about this financial means? The 5 million, 649 thousand, are the funds that were actually guaranteed in the budget? And since this multi-annual program will be postponed, it's that money. That's what I mean. It is guaranteed by the State budget. Well, sometimes it's not that the program's shifted, but the university's gonna have to make the money itself. I understood from all this that it would be the money that was secured. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. And in that case they will be shifted, the university will receive this money. Let me get this straight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u137	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u138	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Yes, you understand. This will require a certain budgetary operation, so that the funds secured this year in the reserve will not be mobilised, they will be earmarked for some other purposes from the reserve, but after the bill has been passed there will be a need for budgetary change, that is to say, to reserve in the budget reserve the corresponding amount that you have exchanged. 5 million 600 thousand zlotys for the year to come. The mobilisation of this reserve will be next year and the settlement time Until the following year, i.e. 2019.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u139	Are there any further questions? Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Would any of you like to speak in the discussion? Senator Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, I just... Because me and Senator Rotnicka are from Poznan. And the senator is also an employee of UAM, and we would like to say to you that, of course, we thank you all for supporting this solution. Well, that's how it happens in investment processes, that unfortunately land buys out... each of us knows how it seems that it sometimes takes a long time, that deadlines are shifted, that the demands of the owners sometimes cause that unfortunately the entire period is a little longer. And that's the only reason why this multi-annual program... i.e. That there's a request to reschedule its ending. It's less than 1%. the whole investment, this is about the action towards sport, that is, this sports facilities, to finish... And Morasko, that's just... If you weren't there, we encourage everyone to see how you will be in Poznań, what a beautiful campus this is. And indeed, the lack of this sports section is visible. And that is why, of course, we thank you for your support, for the fact that probably everyone together, as it was on the committee, will support this change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u141	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. High Senate, I propose to delete from the agenda the seventh item, which includes the second reading of the draft law amending the law on road traffic law and the act on drivers of vehicles. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. I can't hear you objecting. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Civil Procedure Code Act, the Law on education in sobriety and combating alcoholism and the Law on the Protection of Mental Health. The text of the Act is contained in print No 619 and the report of the committee In the letters Nos 619 A and 619 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Andrzej Mioduszewski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u142	Miss Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present to the High Senate the report of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 12 October 2017 on the amendment of the Law of Civil Procedure, the Law on Education in Sobriety and Against Alcoholism and the Act on the Protection of Mental Health. This is a government project that has created the need for standardisation. To date, the possibility of commissioning environmental interviews to family curators has been provided for in the act of the Regulation in the Rules of Procedure of the General Courts of 2007. The new regulations of 2015 do not contain, respectively, §259 and §260, and therefore the courts do not have legal grounds for commissioning environmental interviews to the curators. Following an analysis, the Ministry saw the need to include the relevant provisions in the Act on the rank of the law. After considering the law at its meeting on 25 October, the committee asks the High Senate to adopt the law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u143	Thank you. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to submit a report to the committee. [[Voice from the room: He's gone.]] [[I saw him in the hallway. I'll have him right away.]] We need to take a short technical break. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u144	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Commission, having read the proposals, adopted the Act without amendment by a majority. A proposal has been made for a minority represented by Senator Shark. The Act generally deals with changes in civil procedure, in the Law on sobriety education and combating alcoholism and in the Law on the Protection of Mental Health. It is all about introducing the possibility for the court to order the court to conduct a civil procedure concerning family proceedings for environmental intelligence in order to determine the family situation of the person concerned, especially the child. In the case of the other two laws... It is about examining the situation of family, living, living persons who are under investigation on forced anti-alcoholic treatment. In addition, it is a matter of introducing in the Law on the Protection of Mental Health a record of similar interviews by a judicial curator concerning persons who are subject to proceedings concerning the placing in a mental institution. I've submitted a report. I think Senator Shark will present a minority proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u145	Thank you very much. Senator Shark will present a minority proposal. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. At yesterday's meeting of the Legislative Commission, of course, we drew attention to differences. These are not serious discrepancies regarding...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u147	Excuse me, Senator. [[Yes?]] But no minority request has been formally filed. [[There's no minority request...]] I'll give you the floor... [[But I'm in the middle of a discussion...]] ...in the middle of a discussion. [[Oh, good.]] Excuse me. [[It's okay.]] So now we're back... [[I've even signed up.]] ...on the routine of asking questions to the Senators of the rapporteurs. If that's the question, go ahead. Senator Augustine. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u148	I address my questions to the senators of the rapporteurs. The first one is the question of whether, with a significantly greater burden on the work of the curators Some estimate that the introduction of these changes may be equivalent to a doubling of their duties, do you foresee additional funds to enable them to carry out these tasks? That's the first question. And the second is whether these interviews by curators, especially in matters of incapacity, will complement medical opinions, or will they replace them in the court's decision-making process? What will be the relationship between these opinions? Of course, he does. about people with mental disorders, and there are a lot of them in social services homes. These cases are difficult to regulate, and they are difficult to assess. And I would like to ask the rapporteurs how the introduction of this interview will affect the court's orders.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u149	Which of the rapporteurs will answer? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The first question was about funds. As far as the workload is concerned, this was the case, but the Minister pointed out that the workload is not the subject of a law. That's the first line. As for the additional burden, the facts are that these provisions of the Act are kind of optional, so you can't think that every time a court decides to conduct an interview. The law contains the word "possibly." The court can do that, but let's not assume it's always gonna be that way. Besides, it's not always like this now. As for the second question, at our committee's meeting, this matter was not specifically taken. I'm talking about the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u151	Are there any further questions from the senators? [[There's another rapporteur.]] Would the second rapporteur also like to address this question? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u152	Mr. Senator, of course, such an interview does not replace evidence from experts' opinions, because in a case of incapacity of the expert psychiatrist's opinion is necessary. Even if I remember correctly, there must be at least two psychiatrists. The same is true in cases involving forced treatment, so that intelligence is absolutely not evidence that replaces the required expert opinions. It's just a supplement.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u153	Thank you, Senator. Are there any further questions? Since there are no questions, I'm going to say that the bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative, Mr Michał Woś, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Are there any such questions? Any of you senators want to ask such a question? [[Senator Szymanski.]] Senator Szymanski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u154	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! During the meeting of the committee I attended yesterday, representatives of the National Curators Council expressed concerns that the number of environmental interviews would increase as a result of the adoption of this regulation. Is the Minister confirming this, or is this not the case? Will the Ministry look at the development of this situation in the field of environmental interviews? I am saying this because professional curators, including family curators, are now burdened with a large number of responsibilities. For this reason, this is a very important problem. In this connection, the next question, which concerns whether these environmental interviews could be calculated by the Ministry of Justice to the standards on the workload of the curators, which would be a very important issue from the curators' point of view. This is just one of the responsibilities that curators do. They've actually been calling for environmental interviews for years, including those we're talking about here, to be included in the probation standards. Thank you, and please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u155	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator, we believe that the number of cases will not increase, and if it is to increase, we will be monitoring it in a minimal way. So far, under the regulation in which the legal basis for environmental interviews was included, environmental interviews were mandatory, while the proposed law provides for the optionality of these interviews. Of course, we will monitor how often the courts will benefit from this possibility. However, we would like to draw attention to the overall reduction in the workload of the curators. Due to demographic change, the change in the number of cases in family proceedings has decreased the workload, which is worth noting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u157	Are there any further questions from the senators to the Minister? If there isn't, I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor, Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u158	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Yesterday we actually refused to apply for a minority because we also believe that it is necessary to supplement the missing provision to the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code, the Law on Sobriety Education and Against Alcoholism and the Law on the Protection of Mental Health. There are questions here from Senator Szymanski... At yesterday's meeting of the Legislative Commission, we found that there were some doubts that should be resolved or that today is not going to work... The point is that in the course of monitoring the operation of this law, the State from the Ministry of Justice should pay attention to a number of issues. They may sound strong today, but we need to consider specific solutions. I'll report the amendments, put them on the record. First of all, we were talking about two things, basic things. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 in point 2 in Article. 5701a the terms and conditions of the person concerned shall be replaced by the terms and conditions of residence, material, health and education of the person for whom the care or care is established, as well as information on his/her relationship and care for the living needs of family members or other persons in the common household. Secondly, in the article. 1 in point 2, in Article. 5701a the existing content shall be designated as §1 and the following §2 shall be added:.§2. Where a person is in a social assistance home or another social assistance organisation providing 24-hour care and maintenance, the court shall request information on that institution's staff or the appropriate social assistance organisation supervising that institution. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 in point 1, Article. 30a is replaced by the following: 30a. The Court of First Instance may order an environmental interview by a judicial curator to determine the family situation and the manner in which the person to whom the procedure for rehab treatment has been initiated, in particular information on his relationship with persons in the common household, in particular with minors, employment, helping to meet the needs of the family or to operate in the local environment. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3, Article 42a is replaced by the following: 42a. The court may order the court to conduct an environmental interview in order to determine how to behave at home towards family members, as well as to the outsiders and in the local environment of the person concerned by the proceedings. We have listened with particular attention to your parole officer who has stated that it will be very difficult to assess in the social security home... Moreover, curators are not specialists in the field of psychiatry, they cannot judge the degree or assessment of how a person behaves on a daily basis, whether he makes... whether these are important omissions from guardians. Besides, as far as welfare homes are concerned, you've been quoting Here's an example. He can... Because it's just their job. In view of the fact that the court may, but it is not necessary to order, the judge, who is also a family judge, drew attention to the fact that for example. If the court orders such proceedings, then, ladies and gentlemen, the probation officer does not have to... he may find himself in a situation where the patient is not yet prepared in a manner suitable for everyday life. We know that there is cyclical care and we can harm both this man and that person who cares. Because they're not these people. In my opinion, also Neither entitled nor prepared in substance, for they are not psychiatric doctors, nor can they judge how much the patient drank, because yesterday we also talked about this, because the body reacts differently, we suggest that the curator should focus on the living, material, educational conditions of the person who is under care or care, and not extend it to other areas of life, which I will remind you once again, there is no preparation. There was also talk of funding, that it is, however, an additional job and an additional burden on the curators. As far as the financial conditions are concerned, as we also asked, there was no clear answer as to whether additional funds would be provided. Therefore, on behalf of myself and of Senator Zientarski, I am placing an amendment on the hands of the Marshal, and I would ask you very much to accept these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u159	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, I also inform you that Senator Mikołajczyk made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill under consideration... [[There's been some changes.]] Oh, yeah, I'm sorry. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[No.]] [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: Minister, a question for the Minister.]] Minister? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Woś: I can relate.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! We would first like to express our surprise that only at this stage... Because the curators raised these issues, they proposed such amendments only during the work of the Legislative Commission, even before the work of the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions did not exist. Nor were they reported during the preparation of this law and the entire legislative process, whether government or parliament. But we thoroughly analyzed the contents of these amendments yesterday in the Ministry, each of them, because there are four of them in total. And each one of them is pointless in our view, and that is because the rules that would be amended in the proposals put forward by the curators are already included... That is to say, the general rules form the basis for those actions that the curators have submitted. One at a time: Curators propose I mean, it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... I'm talking about the amendments made by the senator, but they come Change in terms of possibility or manner of care for checking living, material, health and education conditions. And in court practice, that's the way it is. The living, material, health and educational conditions are being examined. And it doesn't happen that curators go beyond that range. We would like to stress here that, if they were to go beyond this scope, it would be necessary for some reason to the court. Because it's the court that decides whether or not to conduct an interview like this. This is only an optional decision of the court, which means that there is no mandatory annual action here. As for the second amendment, there is a general provision, a general provision in Article. 248 of the Civil Procedure Code on the basis of which the court may still request the institutions to provide relevant information and documents. As for the third amendment, this is where the probation officer examines not the medical condition, as would be the case with the expert's opinion. And here's the article. 24 Act on Sobriety Upbringing But the general social situation. The probation officer presents the facts, and from the evaluation of these facts, there's a court after that. It is similar with the fourth amendment, because they are connected. So that after the analysis carried out yesterday and today at the Ministry of Justice, we recognise that these amendments are pointless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u161	Thank you. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code and the Law on perpetual books and mortgage. I would remind you that this is a draft law implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal and is included in print No 559 and the report of the committee is in print No 559 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Alexander Swed, to present a joint report on the draft law to both committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u162	Thank you. Miss Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the meeting of the Joint Committees, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which worked on 11 October 2017 to amend the Civil Procedure Code and the Law on Perpetual Books and Hypotheses. The proposed amendment is the implementation of the obligation to adapt the system of right to the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. Its main objective is to effectively protect the rights of creditors who have obtained the protection of their monetary claims in the form of the establishment of a compulsory mortgage on the debtor's assets, the prohibition on the disposal or charge of immovable property which does not have a perpetual book, a maritime mortgage, the prohibition on the disposal of cooperative property rights to the premises. The proposed amendment to the Civil Procedure Code and the Perpetual Books and Hypotheses Act aims to bring the system of law into line with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 25 October 2016, the signature of the Act SK/13 declaring the non-compliance of the article. 754 §1 of the Law of 17 November 1964 Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. According to Art. 754 §1 of the Civil Procedure Code granted to the creditor the protection of monetary claims in the form of a compulsory mortgage, the prohibition on the disposal or debiting of immovable property which does not have a perpetual book, a maritime mortgage, the prohibition on the disposal of cooperative property rights to premises falls after 2 months after the enforcement of the judgment taking into account the claim which was secured or the enforcement of the order to reject an appeal or other appeal brought by the person liable to take account of the claim which was secured. Until 1 June 2017, the date of the month was valid. The expiry of that period was not dependent on the creditor's enforcement activities. Despite the creditor's enforcement actions, e.g. the submission of an application for execution, the age of the time limit has not been interrupted. This led to the fact that enforcement of the sum due in the event of execution carried out exclusively from the property was, in practice, impossible due to a lengthy and complex procedure. In its judgment of 25 October, the Constitutional Tribunal stated that the provision was incompatible with the Constitution, since it de facto leads to the apparent protection of the creditor's property right by means of a security which is immediately ineffective. The proposed amendment is to make it conditional on the maintenance of the collateral for monetary claims to a certain extent on the submission by the holder of further enforcement actions, granting the creditor the possibility to request the conversion of the compulsory mortgage established under the collateral into a mortgage which secures the claim and is found to be an implementing title in the application of the proposed collateral arrangements which were established prior to the entry into force of the law, but have not yet collapsed. The proposed project was widely consulted. Their opinions were submitted to the project, among others.: National Chamber Council, National Notarial Council, National Judicial Council, General Bar Council, Supreme Administrative Court, Supreme Court, Association of Polish Banks. The opinions were also submitted by the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Finance, which submitted 3 amendments each. They were taken over by me and Senator Robert Mątkow at the committee meeting and adopted by the joint committees by 12 votes in favour. The whole draft amendment was also adopted unanimously. Therefore, on behalf of the joint committees, the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, I request that the Senate adopt a uniform draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code, the Law on Enforcement in Administration and the Act on Perpetual Books and Hypotheses and the draft resolution on the introduction of this bill to the Sejm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u163	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that Senator Alexander Swed is authorized by the Legislative Commission to represent him at the time of his deliberations and to respond. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? No one's checking in. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? No. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. I would remind you that legislative proposals can only include changes aimed at implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal and their necessary consequences. Senator Alexander Swed will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u164	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make two further clarification amendments, one of which I received from the Ministry of Finance. The first amendment is intended to clarify that the body shall extend the guarantee at the request of the creditor, because, in enforcement proceedings in the administration, otherwise than under the Civil Procedure Code, the guarantee may be granted both on application and ex officio. The proposal in this regard is from the Ministry of Finance and reads: "Article." 2 in §8, if the enforcement authority is replaced by the enforcement authority at the request of the creditor. I second amendment, which is the consequence of the first-reading amendment which amends the law on enforcement in the administration. In the harmonised numbering it is Article. 2. It is about establishing the same principle of interim law as we have adopted in Article. 4 in paragraph 2. 1 with regard to safeguards provided under the Code of Civil Procedure. That's the article. 4 after paragraph. 1. the following paragraph shall be added: 1a as follows: to the securities provided before the date of entry into force of this Law in the manner specified in Article. 164 §1 point 2.1/5 of the Act as amended by Article. Article 2 shall apply. 154 §8 of the Act as amended by Art. 2. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u165	Thank you, Senator. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Woś: No, thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the bill to the Legislative Commission and to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. [[The voice from the hall: Mr. Marshal, Senator Gogacz should...]] Mr. Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u166	Mr. Marshal! I, under the Senate's Rules of Procedure, ask you to set a deadline... So that there is a possibility for two committees to prepare the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Commission to report on the amendments tabled with regard to the point that had just been dealt with, point 7 concerning the Code of Civil Procedure, the Books of Perpetuals and the mortgage, so that we can still adopt this law at this meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u167	Thank you. Senator Gogacz has requested that the committees set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out the third reading of the bill at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear the votes of objection, I will find that the Senate has accepted the motion. I can't hear you objecting. We're moving on to the next point. We proceed to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on the recognition of invalid judgments handed down against persons repressed for activities for the independent existence of the Polish State. I would like to remind you that this project has been introduced by the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and is included in print No 480 and the committee report In print No 480 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Robert Mątkow, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The purpose of the bill is to grant to children of mothers deprived of liberty on the basis of judgments declared invalid, born in prisons or other places of isolation and whose mothers were in such places during pregnancy, entitled to compensation or compensation from the Treasury. In the current legal state, persons who have been imprisoned as minors with their mothers or whose mother has been in prison during pregnancy may not claim compensation and compensation for their own periods of imprisonment and detention. This problem was highlighted by the petitioner who entered the Senate. The petitioner described his family experience as an example. His mother, being with him in the ninth month of pregnancy, was sentenced to death for her activity in favour of the independent existence of the Polish State. The petitioner was born and spent eight months in prison with his mother and was then separated from his mother and spent over a year in a prison nursery. It wasn't until then that he was taken care of by his mother's sister. The establishment of a rational legislator as well as the constitutional values of the democratic rule of law as expressed in Article. 2 of the Constitution in conjunction with guarantees of immunity and personal liberty with Article. 41 of the Constitution justify the legislator's allowing children who, as minors, have been imprisoned under null and void judicial decisions to claim compensation and redress, as both they and their parents are illegally deprived of liberty. The Law of 23 February 1991 on the recognition as invalid of judgments handed down against persons repressed as an activity in favour of the independent existence of the Polish State recognizes as invalid judgments issued by the Polish law enforcement and judicial authorities or by out-of-court bodies from the beginning of their activity in Polish lands, from 1 January 1944 to 31 December 1989, if the act was committed or attributed to the activity of the independent existence of the Polish State or was given because of such activity. Art. 1 paragraph 1. In the absence of a judgment rendered invalid against the mother, which is the basis for the claim for compensation or redress by the child, the proposal allows the child to apply for annulment (in the event of death of the child). also at the request of his spouse, children and parents). Art. Article 8b (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No The project will increase the sense of social justice. This will be done through feelings of people who have personally suffered harm and harm and who are likely to receive compensation from them, as well as from third parties who are aware of the responsibility of the Polish State for the damage and damage done in the past. I would like to mention some of the opinions that have been received by the committee in connection with this petition and with the proposal for a bill. The Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons reports that to this day it granted the powers of those repressed to 37 people who were in prison because of communist repression with their mothers: 33 people were born in prison, 3 were in prison as children, 1 was in prison only during prenatal periods. According to the information provided by the IPN, all women deprived of liberty who were pregnant, had a child or were with children born free there were 354, the annulment of which was only found to be against 14 of them. For the other 340 women, no information was found regarding the annulment of the judgment. The Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons pointed out that the project did not include children born at large and then imprisoned with their mother and thus did not achieve the purpose indicated in the explanatory memorandum. The proposed amendment was incorporated into the draft law. In addition, it should be assumed that the amount needed to secure today's established claims of women and children who were born in prison and were with their mother in prison is... It is 760,000 a month for 3 years, which would be a total of about 2 million 300 thousand for the entire duration of the law. The committees at their joint meeting... The Human Rights Commission and the Legislative Commission request that this law be adopted with amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u169	Thank you, Senator. [[I'd like to enroll in...]] At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. May I remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Robert Mammothov to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? No. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Woś: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Robert Mammothov.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Just a few sentences. I would like to draw the attention of the honourable senators to such a situation that a similar petition has already been considered in the previous term of office and simply in the absence of We haven't finished this bill... This is a subject that we should have dealt with a long time ago: this compensation and compensation to dozens of people... That should have been done by now. How terrible the conditions for mothers and children were at the time, much has already been said. A very bad example is the prison in Bydgoszcz, where... I would like to remind you of the movie "Interrogation," where the truth is shown about how women were treated in prison. They couldn't even say words during childbirth, because they were physically punished for every symptom of pain. Reading the memories of these mothers, these women... It is frightening that in our country, in Poland, such situations could occur. Therefore, I ask you very much to support this law and to close this issue, at least in the form proposed by the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u171	I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act on the amendment of the Act on repatriation, the Act on the Charter of Poles and the Act on Foreigners. The text of the Act is contained in print No 637 and the report of the Commission In print No 637 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad, Senator Artur Warzocha, to present a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Why don't you tell the marshal what's going on in the big politics?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Free conclusions...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Are you going to be the minister or not, Marshal?]] [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: I can possibly undertake to present this report...]] [[The senator doesn't have the authority of the committee...]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: I have no authority, it's true...]] [[Voice from the room: Oh, here's the senator.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm really sorry I'm late, but I thought this point was number ten. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: There one was deleted...]] I see. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday two joint committees were discussed, i.e. the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, and the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad, which discussed the law on the amendment of the Act on repatriation, the Act on the Charter of Poles and the Act on Foreigners adopted by the Sejm on 27 October 2017. The amendment of the law is a parliamentary initiative. Its aim was to eliminate the inaccuracies and ordering of records for good legislation in certain areas of this law, in which minor errors, even those of a linguistic nature, appeared. However, the basic objective was to regulate the status of persons who submitted applications for a repatriation visa before the entry into force of the Act. Therefore, among others. the concept of "candidate for repatriate" is defined in order to indicate in the Act the conditions for settling in Poland. He goes here, among other things. apartments or e.g. places in the adaptation facility. In addition, the amount of financial aid which the Polish State grants to Polish people who intend to settle in the territory of the Republic of Poland under the provisions of this Act is also subject to the change in the framework of this amendment. The point of this change is to increase this amount. Of course, we remember that in the amended act six months ago we allocated 25 thousand PLN to a family member. As part of the current amendment, the amount of the same amount, or 25 thousand PLN, is to be allocated to each family. The Act also alleviates the grounds for repatriation against persons who had no evidence to support the deportation or deportation of their ancestors by the authorities of the former Soviet Union. They also allowed permanent residence of members of the immediate family of the repatriate who do not have Polish citizenship. The authority to issue the permit shall be the Head of the Office for Foreigners. Without abolishing the main obligation to provide assistance to repatriates on the part of the Polish State, the law includes local authorities In other words, it goes back in part to those solutions that were in the so-called. old repatriation law In the process of settling and granting residential premises, the municipalities. Of course, as I said earlier, this will be financed by the state budget, which will be transferred to local government units, to the unit where the family of the repatriates settled. The bill also, but it already at the request of the committee, shortens the time of the vacathio legis, because in the draft law which came to us from the Sejm, the 14-day period of vacathio legis was recorded. The Commission recommends that this period be reduced to 1 day after the entry into force of the Act due to the time needs which are notified by the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration and by the representative of the Government for Home Affairs and Administration. repatriating. The point is simply to shorten the waiting time for people to make a decision. The Commission recommends that the High Senate adopt this law together with the amendments that were made yesterday and the amendment of the others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u173	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Boris-Damięcka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u174	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already said at the committee meeting yesterday that I very much support all the amendments that were presented yesterday at the meeting and which were unanimously adopted. I would like to share a few reflections on what the repatriate in Poland will be waiting for, because this law cannot ensure, it cannot be legalised, saved, etc. All these amendments have been the subject of many years of reflection and reflection. I personally dealt with both two terms ago, in my previous term and in this term of office. And I have to say that here very quickly we managed to eliminate a number of negligence and a number of embarrassing situations in which we put repatriates and those who are applying for repatriation. I think the entry into force of this law as soon as possible And this is where I sign up for the bill to come into force as soon as possible. It will facilitate both the Polish side, the government side and the candidates for repatriates very quickly... But I'd like to share some of the reflection I have. All the formalities relating to repatriation, legal, financial formalities are completed and all these formalities are settled. Then, here, the act of this law ends with regard to the further fate of our repatriates. And it's up to us, to society, to local governments, to people who will work with the repatriates, to work, to be their neighbors, to be their superiors at work, and so on. Because, ladies and gentlemen, there will be a number of problems, because repatriating is people from the former Soviet Union, from these distant republics of the Kazakhstan and Transcaucasian type... These are very often people who are the next generation, descendants of those who have been deported, deported, etc. These are mixed marriages. There's also a language problem. And I would like to share such reflection that how they will continue to live in Poland and how much of this life they will be able to draw for themselves, for their families, for example. from equalizing levels of different knowledge, knowledge of the law in force in Poland: administrative law, criminal law, economic law. Because they're gonna have different classes, different competitions. There will also be problems that they will encounter. Surely there is a very large difference in their knowledge, knowledge of these rights. Another issue is language problems, but they will occur in younger people, not only when it comes to Polish. They will certainly need to be given the opportunity to learn other foreign languages, because they will meet with the need to use a different language and not always learn English, German or French. They usually speak Russian. There is also a problem of children who will come here and who will learn in Polish schools. Someone will have to help these children to make up for these differences in learning skills, in language wealth, in Polish vocabulary, in Polish language. These are all things that I am merely signaling so that we may consider whether we are going to have another stage, another period of cooperation with the repatriates who will be in Poland and who will ask us for various kinds of interventions. I wonder if we should somehow make it easier for the local authorities, whether, although I might use the wrong word, we should control these local authorities, or rather cooperate with the local authorities that will accept these repatriates, in order to create the climate, the atmosphere, except that they will secure financial, housing and so on. So that these repatriates get involved as soon as possible in the course of our daily life, in our professional problems. The point is to make it easier for them, for example. the issue of nostrilisation of diplomas, if necessary, or learning, acquiring and expanding knowledge. I think this will certainly be a problem that will exist out there and will return to our Committee on Immigration and Communication with Poles abroad. And I also think that there may still be some possibilities to solve certain problems in the bill, but it will show whether there will be any further amendments to this law, so to speak, to the morals, to the problems of life, to the everyday day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u175	Thank you very much, Senator. Let me inform you that the number of speakers has been... Why isn't the microphone working? [[Voices from the O.R.: It works, it works.]] Then the button doesn't work. [[Voices from the O.R.: It works, it works.]] But the button doesn't work, there's no control. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act on the National Education Network. The text of the Act is contained in print No 626, and the report of the Commission In print No 626 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u176	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The joint committees at their meeting dealt with the subject of a law setting out the objectives and sources of funding of the National Education Network, hereinafter referred to as the OSE. The National Education Network will be a public telecommunications network providing broadband access to schools. It will be administered by the Scientific and Academic Computer Network of the State Research Institute. In addition to providing schools with access to infrastructure, the National Education Network is to provide schools with ICT security and digital technology services and promote the principles of digital security. An operator is to provide internet access with a total capacity of at least 100 Mbps. The Minister responsible for Administration will have the right to allow temporary provision of access to the Internet with lower parameters, but only up to 12 months. Schools will be able to be connected to the National Education Network within the deadlines resulting from the schedule developed by the OSE operator. And these terms are presented here. This is the period from 1 September 2018 to... The plan is for this to happen until 1 January 2021. Within the framework of funding, it is important that this task is to be financed either by budgetary resources and that these appropriations are reserved in the budget and that the law specifies what appropriations will be made available over the years. Or from the European Union. It is very important that the government and the Ministry of Digitisation undertake to ensure that, in principle, it is not at the expense of the local government, but at its own expense, at the expense of the budget. broadband internet in the form of fibre optics. In so far as the existing wireless network has limitations, resulting e.g. with physics, with the possibility of packing bits in a given frequency, it is difficult to imagine such limitations in the case of fiber optics. These capacities will be able to grow as technology progresses. As Mr Zagórski, who was present at the committee, explained in response to the senators' questions, this is why this choice and the emphasis on the fact that it is essentially a fibre network. The committee meeting took place in a very calm atmosphere. Mainly the substantive questions were asked, which were clarified, to which the Minister competently answered. All the senators present at the committee's meeting unanimously supported this initiative. The bill was backed up, all in favor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u177	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Digitisation has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. [[No one signed up.]] I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Congratulations to the Ministry. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the law on the financing of educational tasks. The text of the Act is contained in print No 625 and the report of the Commission In print No 625 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Małgorzata Kopiczko, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u178	Ladies and gentlemen! Today, at a joint meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, we adopted a law on the financing of educational tasks. I propose that we adopt this law without amendment. The aim of the Act is primarily to change the way in which education is financed and in the act of the Teacher Card. This is the first stage of the planned solutions, which will ultimately organise the system of funding educational tasks, so that it is transparent and easier to apply by local governments, school heads, school heads and institutions. The regulations relating to the pursuit of the profession of teacher will be amended, in particular regarding working time and promotion. This will be linked to remuneration and to changes in teacher leave. The most important changes contained in the draft law on the financing of educational tasks are related to pre-school grant. The grant from the state budget for the local government unit for the funding of pre-school education tasks will be calculated according to the host and registration body, not according to the location of the pre-school institution. The issue has been raised several times by local authorities when calculating grants for the development of pre-school education. The next issue is the so-called. a textbook grant. In view of the numerous demands made by school heads and local authorities, changes have been proposed regarding the accounting of the use of targeted grants. The grant will be calculated and transferred up to the maximum amount per pupil of a given class, differentiated according to the educational stage. The school will have to use the total amount of the grant and it will be the school principal who will decide what it will do. It's either textbooks or educational materials or exercise materials. The next change is the grant from the budgets of local governments of pre-school education institutions, schools and educational institutions. One of the most important changes to subsidising institutions will be the departure from the concept of a school type in the calculation of grants to schools. Previously, there were problems of interpretation caused primarily by the lack of a definition of the type of school. Therefore, instead of making school subsidies dependent on the type of school, it was proposed to refer to the amount provided for in the educational part of the general subsidy for local government units. An important change will be to grant only one pupil who is more than one subsidised pre-school or subsidised adult school. The rules for financing social assistance will change. The municipality receives a special grant from the State budget for the financing of the social assistance. The amount of the scholarship and the school allowance for the student will no longer depend on the wealth of his municipality. So far, the amount of social aid was dependent on the contribution of the municipalities. The changes also concern the promotion of the profession and the evaluation of teachers' work. The draft law proposes solutions to link the career promotion path with the assessment of teachers' work and to depend on the quality of the teacher's work. This change will enable teachers to be rewarded with outstanding quality of work. The evaluation of the teacher's work will be carried out on a compulsory basis after completion of the internship for a further degree of professional promotion and every 3 years of school work from the date of obtaining the degree of a contracted, appointed and certified teacher if the teacher, depending on his degree, does not start his internship for the next degree or completes the path of promotion. The next change concerns the extension of the career promotion path from 10 to 15 years. There will also be the possibility of shortening it. The shortening of the career promotion path will depend on obtaining a job assessment at a certain level. The basic path of promotion also takes account of the extended traineeship for the degree of contract teacher from 9 months to 1 year and 9 months. The longer duration of the internship will allow the teacher to adapt to the profession and recognize the predisposition to it. As regards the working time of teachers, this very important issue has been settled. A weekly mandatory period of teaching hours for teachers, speech counselors, psychologists and counselors has been defined, as well as pedagogical therapists, with the exception of teachers employed in psycho-pedagogical counseling at 22 hours. A salary of 20 hours has also been consolidated for teachers with special education qualifications. The next amendment concerns the fact that school heads and school vice-directors and other school managers may not have over-sized hours allocated unless the situation is specific and results from the implementation of the framework curriculum in one unit. The size and timing of the rest leave has been laid down for teachers holding management positions at school to enable better organisation of the school's work and the performance of its statutory tasks. Changes have been made regarding the granting of leave to teachers for the treatment of health. A doctor will be given leave for medical treatment to treat a disease that is at risk of occupational disease and a doctor will be assigned to this leave. And an important question about parental rights. Due to the welfare of pupils, new regulations have been proposed regarding the dismissal of a child care teacher under the age of 14. This exemption will be granted to teachers within 2 days without being able to use it on an hourly basis. Changes in employment. A teacher's assistant will be removed from the education system. Those who are employed in existing positions will be employed until 31 August 2020 and will then have the opportunity to act as a supporting teacher. Changes have been made to the remuneration of specialists employed under the Law. Education law, which is particularly important for the organisation of vocational training courses. And these are the most important changes. Please accept the bill without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u179	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Piotr Wacha, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A minority of committees requests amendments to the Act I will try to discuss them briefly and justify them, and this is because the committee voted for the bill without amendments without voting on the amendments, so we do not know the committee's position on the matter. With regard to the adoption of the law without amendments, so for the position of the whole committee, the result of this vote was probably 8:6. I would like to say that a minority does not ask for the rejection of the law, because the law has its reasons and introduces a number of necessary amendments, in particular in terms of financing, but some of the law, and in particular the article, raises a fundamental criticism. 76, which concerns amendments to the Teacher's Charter. These changes in the Teacher's Charter were discussed more or less by the Senator rapporteur, so I will actually... repeat them very briefly. The promotion period is extended to 15 years in the standard case Because you mentioned the possibility of shortening. Come on. A regular evaluation system shall be introduced every 3 years and a number of options for on-demand assessments from different sides. And there's already doubt here. In addition, in the field of the promotional path, the list of ratings is extended to include a distinctive assessment, which is rewarded with 16 percent gratification in the form of a wage supplement, which is assessed as approximately 500 PLN additionally for the period until the next evaluation. It could all be, but... well, it could be... The position of the Legislative Office, as well as the position of minorities, is such that changes to the Teacher Charter should be made elsewhere and not in the Finance Act. The Minister, who was present at the committee meeting and was very wide-ranging and openly discussing... It is necessary to admit to Minister Zalewska that she did not evade, only took the glove. But in my reception and in my reception of the minority it is actually such a position that... the sentences given by the Minister were very unilateral. I mean, the Minister ignores the inconvenient and difficult issues that we raise and mainly discusses the advantages that undoubtedly also exist when it comes to touching the Teacher's Charter under this law. So, as I said, legislative offices, both in the Sejm and in the Senate, with regard to the general level, said that changes to the Teacher Charter are not needed under this law and should not be done so. And that's what we agree on. But this criticism, which was carried out by the minority, goes further, namely the evaluation procedure itself. This assessment is described in Article. 76 (3). It's a very long record, which is why I'm only going to say two parts. It's in the lithium recipe. I is written, in short, that the Minister determines the detailed criteria and procedure for assessing the work of teachers, while in lit. n it is written that the school principal shall lay down the rules governing the evaluation indicators of teachers relating to the level of compliance with the criteria. The core of the case, aside from all the other things, is that. There's a draft minister's regulation. It's just a project. Which introduces many, more than 40 criteria, including the teacher's moral and ethical evaluation. This was also discussed at the committee meeting. In individual schools, however many there are in Poland, and there are many... The Director of each type of school, after consulting the trade unions and the pedagogical board, shall lay down the rules governing the evaluation indicators relating to the level of compliance with the criteria. Ladies and gentlemen, aside from the fact that this is actually very difficult to do, it must be said that in any school it can vary to a very large extent. It is not very clear whether these indicators are to be quantitative, qualitative indicators... Nevertheless, they relate to those criteria, which are numerous, because in the ministerial draft regulation so far there are more than 40... Imagine that when it comes to, for example. the fulfilment of ethical and moral criteria, the various controversial things can be written in there by the director and given a positive or negative opinion by the said advice, which does not affect the final rules. There may be, and certainly should not, a raised matter of participation of the teacher in Sunday Holy Mass. These things, of course, break the constitution and are suable, but they can be written there. Who knows what the fate of such a... It can be moved there, for example. life in the concubine, which is basically legal and subject to other family and benefit regulations... Nevertheless, it can be there, etc., etc. Here you can imagine things, and above all, ladies and gentlemen, you can imagine a deep division, dispute and tension within the teaching group at school. Imagine that teachers would like to be distinguished and have extra money, but they will be evaluated, which is so far insufficiently defined and which will also be individualized in schools in a way that will divide and cause conflicts. Therefore, this is, I would say, the most controversial point of this law. I must say that during the committee meeting, the Minister said that schools differ, that the criteria will differ. No, such things, such indicators, if they are needed, should be in the Minister's Regulation and should be universally applicable. If these were numerical indicators, conditions and boundaries could be established for fulfilling them. In addition, I would add that, assuming that these criteria are 40, the question arises as to whether the teacher can be positively assessed if he does not meet one or more of these criteria, or whether his assessment will automatically be negative. This is a conflict field, a divisional field. The Minister, at the level of the ministerial regulation, could still be left to it, because it is, however, a body that is, I would say, under a nationwide view, but at the level of the school it will be challenged only in courts, in the Court, possibly in the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. Who's gonna make it from the teachers? Who will defend their rights under such conditions? These are the main issues, although more could be raised by the committees. These are the four amendments that have been tabled by the minority and which I will report. I will do it very quickly because they are relatively simple, graduated. Amendment 1 proposes the complete removal of Article. 76, i.e. the whole matter of changes in the Teacher's Charter. And that would also be in line with the opinions of the legislative offices. The Act would suffer some losses, as under this article the Minister actually regulates the hourly burden for certain marginal teaching or paranautical professions, such as. logopeds, however, probably nothing would have happened if this had been separate, only regulated in detail. In the event that this amendment is unacceptable, the next amendment, with a narrower scope, is the deletion of the point. Article 3 76, i.e. to give up changes in the assessment of teachers, because that is what this point is about. If, in turn, this amendment were too far gone, one could still touch on this matter, which I spent the most time on, namely on criteria and indicators. Another amendment would be to remove the letter. n in point 3 of Article. 76, i.e. the basis for the establishment of specific indicators for specific criteria by the school head. And nothing would have happened, because lithium. I from the same point of view is that it is the Minister who sets the procedure and the specific criteria. Specific criteria can also be understood by setting indicators if necessary. And the fourth amendment is an alternative to this weakest amendment that I just discussed. Namely, it also assumes that lithium is removed. n, i.e. the basis for determining indicators at the level of the school principal. In turn, the text of lithium would be different. I, namely that delegation concerning the Minister's regulation setting the criteria. This is not the case, because this is a literal definition of determining indicators. So if the Minister believes that indicators should be introduced in addition to the specific criteria, then he introduces them. Is she in this case And he's responsible for it, not the right school principal. That is the position of the minority committee. I would also like to say that the Minister defended her position hard at the committee meeting. In my opinion, and in the opinion of the minority of committees, this is very, very unfavorable, because these changes concerning the Teacher Charter actually deepen the problem and introduce, so to speak, statutory teacher servitism, i.e. They deprive the teacher of a certain freedom that he should have and sanction the need to adapt to the ethical-moral formula that the school principal will establish. In my view, and in the opinion of my colleagues who support these amendments, this is unacceptable. Therefore, I ask you to consider this issue in detail and to rely at least on the least amending amendment law, namely to abandon at least the fact that the indicators to the criteria are assessed by... are formulated and introduced by the school head. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u181	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. The bill was filed by... [[Senator Czarnobaj came in.]] Senator Blackbay, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u182	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask the senator of the rapporteur a question. She said that this system introduced more transparent ways of dividing, there was a whole explanation of transparency here. If we could explain the transparency of this system compared to the previous... I know that the senator is a well-known and valued educator, so she will not have any trouble showing the superiority of this transparent system over the non-transparent previous system.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u183	Senator, I did not say that the earlier one was opaque, but that this one is more readable, especially as regards financing tasks in the field, as mentioned earlier, pre-school education, the calculation of grants. First of all, the idea is that the grant should be targeted and charged to one student who is a student of a given school. There was often, for example. such a situation that the student was in 2 institutions and this grant was passed on to 2 bodies. And just like I mentioned earlier, all those issues that have been clarified... I would like to stress that all these arrangements were actually made at the request of local governments, school heads, trade unions. It was widely consulted, discussed. The Minister said this today; I think she will have another chance to say it here. Indeed, there were situations where certain issues had to be settled. And they were simply regulated in this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u184	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u185	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I understand. That's what the senator said. The draft of this bill was consulted by the trade unions and all the institutions that you mentioned, and it came from the suggestion of local governments, right? This is... [[For numerous earlier doubts concerning the calculation, among others. Donations...]] Well, I understand that local governments, as well as unions, have asked for this kind of bill. [[Overinterpretation.]] I'm asking because I'm about to read their opinion. So the senator wouldn't be surprised if I read it. [[We know very well the opinions...]] [[That's how I felt it was a trap, Senator.]] [[We know these opinions perfectly well, we don't need to read them. We know all the opinions.]] Positive. [[Opinions on the bill, both positive and negative.]] That is why I would like to know whether there have been negative opinions against this law. If so, which ones? You can have the senator say it. And second question. I'll finish up so I don't ask any more questions. Senator, Professor, Senator, at the end of the day, he said something about servility. The senator is the principal of the school, as far as I know. If you could ask for an opinion... If not, maybe not, but could you tell me if this bill introduces more servility to the Polish school or more teacher freedom? What's your assessment?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u186	In response to your request, regarding these negative assessments from trade unions... I think that here a government representative can speak, it has not been discussed in such detail. But as the Minister said, all the arrangements were consulted and tried to adapt as much as possible to what the trade unions report. As for the second question about the teacher's work, as I understand it, the assessment of the teacher's work, I answer this: there was always an evaluation of the teacher's work, also earlier there was an evaluation of the teacher's work, there were certain criteria. And these indicators that we're talking about here, and which are bothering you... Here's what I'm gonna say: there were teacher's regulations at school, developed by the principal. And it wasn't like the principal himself... Ladies and gentlemen, what does the school principal mean here? Does he draw up the rules himself? He's got a team, he's got teachers, trade unions. And if any regulations are being prepared And here, when it comes to assessing the work of a teacher, all the more so are involved. It is these indicators or criteria developed at school that will serve to improve the quality of school work. It's just that. And here you can't worry about issues like the fact that the school principal will misjudge the teacher, because the school principal is chosen by a committee which, among many candidates, chooses the best candidate, is a person who wisely manages the institution. We must pay tribute to our directors who are working to improve quality and implement a reform that serves the good of the student, for the fact that... the Director is best placed to judge the teacher, and if the teacher needs help, support... Even if he gets a slightly lower grade that he can improve in three years, it will serve only the welfare of the child, the student. Thank you very much. [[Just one comment, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u187	Comments maybe in the debate, Senator. [[I'll ask you then.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u188	I'd like to ask you about-- I guess I wasn't very clear, so I'm gonna ask you again. The senator answered me about the evaluation... I understand your position as Director as Senator... [[You asked me for my grade...]] I asked about your evaluation, but not the teacher's evaluation, just the evaluation of the bill. The professor said that this bill carries a lot of servility, obedience, servitude. Would you prefer a law like that, or would you prefer a law to be a law that gives a lot of freedom to teachers, etc. It's about this kind of assessment, not about the teacher's evaluation.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u189	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u190	Mr. Senator, in my opinion, this bill doesn't involve any servitude... [[Then what is it?]] ...and there's no way to say it, no... She only has to help the teachers at work. [[I see.]] She doesn't bring any surrender. In the Polish school the teacher has never been subject and will never be subject to... He's doing his job the best he can. [[Surveillance.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u191	Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] [[Senator Sługocki and Senator Czerwiński.]] Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mrs. Senator, I have a question about the evaluation criteria set by the school heads, and we discussed this in committee, and you spoke very broadly about it. Don't you think that in order to achieve some comparable level of work of teachers in Poland... The point is that at least part, if not all, of these criteria, should be unified, so to speak, communal, which is uniform for all teachers throughout the country, because we have a certain vision of the teacher's competence. I'm not saying, of course, that I would leave them all, because... in my opinion, you want to empower the directors. I agree with this message from the Minister that school is uneven, but shouldn't some part of the criteria be common to everyone? A complimentary part prepared at the level of a given institution, a given school... I think that would be a good compromise. Mr Senator spoke quite critically, among other things, about the evaluation process, but some of the experience of the evaluation process can be transferred and used, for example, in the context of building evaluation criteria. What's your opinion on this, Senator? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u193	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u194	Senator, as the Minister has said, we now have three levels: we have a law, we have a regulation that is still being consulted, and we have what is being created at school, i.e. the rules of the school, the principal. Like you said, every school is different. There are small rural schools where actually every point, each plus is associated with the great work of the teacher, and there are schools that have very good students, the Olympics, so there will already be different criteria, but please be calm. Ladies and gentlemen, internal regulations will be established in agreement with teachers, they will be agreed by both teachers and trade unions. Again, it's not like the director is gonna sit down and write some indicators. That's never happened, and it's never gonna happen. [[Senator, if you don't mind...]] I'm a very good judge of that.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u195	I'm not afraid of that, but I'm just trying to make her some kind of... I think that the Minister of National Education should depend on having some overall picture, for the whole country, of the level of teacher evaluation and could compare the facility with the facility. If we create a completely different, horizontalally incomparable evaluation system, we will not be able to compare these criteria. Yeah, that's what I'm talking about. That's part of it. That's it, I don't expect...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u196	Mr. Senator, I'm already answering those questions. The evaluation has already done us a lot of damage at different levels, because each school is different. Teachers also adapt to work in a given institution. And we can't standardise the evaluation of the teacher's work. [[Assessment criteria.]] But the criteria, too. They will be agreed at the level of the bill, the rules and some will be. They're already here, I'm not going to quote the rules here, but it's set out in the rules. And the school principal, as I said, will develop criteria adapted to his school, to the institution concerned. We cannot talk about having some general, state-level impression of how teachers work. Teachers... Even if someone gets that lower grade, they're still trying so hard to... [[...to correct them.]] ...to correct them. It's normal. However, it has always been possible to appeal against the evaluation and now it is also possible. And it's not like you can't appeal to a court in Strasbourg right away. No. I want to reassure you that the appeal against the evaluation is that within 30 days we file an appeal, and then the whole committee that will meet This is already specified in the Rules of Procedure, maybe it is still consulted It will assess whether the evaluation carried out by the Director is compatible with whether it is incompatible with the... So you can appeal. It's not like...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u197	Sure, yeah. Mrs. Senator, but there's some shape of a perfect teacher, some pattern of a teacher we should be pursuing. Hence the question: how to pursue this model of ideal teacher? I understand we're building, like, a part of a set of common criteria that will allow... [[Okay...]] ...the same measure of measuring different teachers, different schools, different problems, different levels, etc., etc. But there are undoubtedly common parts that occur in every school, regardless of its size, geographical location, whether the school is rural or urban, etc., etc. Don't you agree with me, Senator? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u198	As the senator said, there are common parts and they will be defined in the regulations: this substantive correctness, methodical correctness, what the teacher in each school seeks. That'll be a definite one. However, internal indicators or regulations, because these will only be certain guidelines regarding the work of the teacher... Every teacher strives to be a model teacher or, as the senator said, a model teacher. And there's no other way... [[How perfect he's gonna be...]] ...everyone's gonna go for it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u199	So, Senator, I have a question: what is the perfect teacher, can we define him as what he should be? [[Moral.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u200	Mr. Senator, this is beyond the scope of the committee's work. We can talk about this outside the Senate. [[I accept this invitation. Of course, I'm very happy for him. Thank you very much.]] Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u201	Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator, I rarely torment senators, rather... [[There you go.]] ...ministers, but I have to ask this question here. [[Please.]] How do you, as a teacher and principal of the school, assess such a drastic tightening of the rules on the possibility of obtaining leave for health abuse? And was there a talk at the committee's meeting about it, or was it just slipping through?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u203	No, it wasn't discussed so widely at the committee meeting. But here's what I'm going to say: a leave for a health check will be given by a doctor who also qualifies a teacher to take a job, says whether he is healthy, whether he can take a job or not. So this occupational medicine doctor who's ruling now will also qualify a teacher to leave for health care. And I think it's very well because it's going to be unified. That's my assessment. However, this was not the subject of any major debate at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u204	We've exhausted the list of senators who have been asked questions. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for National Education has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Sejm adopted a draft law on the financing of educational tasks, submitted by the Minister of National Education. This law provides for arrangements for the financing of education, so that issues related to its financing are regulated by one legislative act. The proposal adopted introduces changes that relate to funding in this area, notably as regards the financing of schools and tasks in relation to non-public schools. But it also changes whether it amends the Teacher Card Act. As far as changes are concerned, which are essential, regulations relate primarily to working time, promotion and leave. These changes, which are now being made, of course, were the result of the expectations of many parties, above all of the local government. These issues are also included in the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber. At the same time, they represent another logical step in the change in the education system reform. As regards these changes concerning the grant scheme, they relate to pre-school grants In other words, a grant from the state budget to the local government unit for the funding of pre-school education tasks will be charged according to the host body and the one that registers, i.e. not where... I mean, where we're actually dealing with the operation of kindergarten. And of course it was an important element that was moved by local governments. [[Talking in the O.R.]] So where we have kindergarten, yeah. The second point concerns a textbook grant. This is also linked to the demands of school heads to actually make the system of grants for textbooks flexible so that they can have the amount available to the school head. This, of course, was often associated with what was referred to as phenomena that could give rise to certain concerns associated with the so-called packaging, yes? In other words, this solution allows for flexibility. So the director will be able to increase, in justified cases, e.g. the cost of purchasing a set of textbooks and making transfers as far as textbooks are concerned, so that they are not actually textbooks... so that for example. it was not so constructed as to the amount of the grant that it would prefer some specific publishing house, but it was in line with what the teachers' team at the school determined. Granting from the budgets of municipalities pre-school institutions, schools and educational institutions. This issue cleans up things that have been out of order for many years. This applies to the concept of a type of school, which was vague, which created interpretational problems. Now we have a change, according to which there will be a clear reference: instead of the type of school there will be a reference to the amount provided for in the educational part of the general subsidy for local government units. So this is also a postulate that has been expected before. This also applies to changes in public schools where there is no obligation to study. So this also applies to grants. This change also applies when we were dealing with a student who may have been in several institutions. So this change is just supposed to sort these things out. The next changes mainly concern the promotion of the profession and the evaluation of the teacher's work. The changes that are foreseen here, in this law, are in line with what was expected, as we said, of the educational environment, which was the result of the debate that had been conducted earlier before the structural reform, the programme started to be implemented. The Supreme Audit Chamber has also paid strong attention to these issues, and they have also emerged during the debate on changes in teacher education. This is about promotion issues, lengthening it from 10 to 15 years, but also the possibility of shortening it, linking the path of promotion and shortening it with the quality of the teacher's work. And that's one request. The second one, which concerned matters related to the trainee teacher... Here, of course, in this debate, which accompanied the teacher's education, on the question of the teacher's qualifications, attention was paid to the pace at which the teacher's transition from the trainee's stage to the contract teacher's stage was made. And here many actors, including the Supreme Audit Chamber, indicated the need to extend this part of the traineeship, from 9 months to a year and 9 months. So this is, as I said, one of the important demands. Another postulate on this occasion is the question of a different way of moving from the trainee's stage to the contract teacher's stage, namely the introduction of an external evaluation and examination. Until now, the trainee's stage ended in the case of a promotion of the professional acquis, which was carried out within the school by the school's principal, and here it is a matter of being part of such an external action, i.e. an examination carried out by an examination commission from outside the school, a committee in which a representative of the pedagogical supervisor, a representative of the host body and an expert from the list of experts established by the Minister of Education would be present. As I said, it is evident that there is a debate, a thought and a belief that this stage, as far as the teacher's professional path is concerned, should be dealt with in an important and specific way. As far as the next issue is concerned, it is a matter of assessing the work of the teacher. The evaluation of the work was carried out after the end of the traineeship for each degree of professional promotion and every 3 years from the date of obtaining the degree of contract teacher, appointed and certified. So that the change concerns this issue as well. Another issue is what was pointed out when the length of the teacher's professional promotion was mentioned, i.e. the beliefs that emerged and in the public debate, and in other arrangements, for example, those that were used to motivate teachers, that after obtaining the degree of promotion of the diplomat, this motivation of teachers is less... Hence the issue of introducing an allowance for outstanding work. In other words, the point is that this supplement is not only related to the fact that the teacher has a specific internship and a degree of promotion, but also to the result of the next evaluation of the work, i.e. the distinguishing grade. He would be the answer to what to do with the promotion system that... Well, we are today in a situation where most teachers in Poland have gained the degree of promotion of a teacher appointed or certified. That would be another motivating factor. Another issue that has not been regulated so far has aroused a lot of emotions. It is a question of working time of teacher teacher, speech counselor, psychologist, professional advisor. It's about fixing a minimum that shouldn't exceed 22 hours. Another issue is the matter of leave of absence for the sake of health. She was often raised by local authorities. This issue required a regulation that did not raise any doubts. The idea was, firstly, that this leave should be combined with the work that the teacher is doing, secondly, that the medical examinations involved should be carried out by the occupational medicine doctor rather than the first contact doctor. This is also an important change provided for in this Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u206	Thank you very much. Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u207	Minister, I have questions about the question that I have actually raised in the minority report, which means that the criteria are set by the Minister's regulation and the indicators to these criteria by the school head. But first I would like to ask another basic question: can a teacher receive a positive assessment, i.e. good, very good or distinctive if it does not meet any of the criteria to be 40 or more? I don't know exactly what it's gonna look like, but let's say he's going to have a negative assessment under some criterion. Can the whole be positive then? Who decides that?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u208	Today we have a situation in which we are talking about the fact that the rules are to regulate precisely what has appeared in schools in many areas. In other words, on the one hand, we have a statutory decision that changes this philosophy, the evaluation of the work, the evaluation of the achievements. It introduces a mandatory assessment of the teacher's work and, on the other hand, the law is accompanied by a regulation. Of course, this draft implementing act is not the one formally consulted. So to say, after this discussion and taking into account the draft implementing act, it will ultimately be possible to answer how these issues will be dealt with. The important thing is and this is due to this change As a consequence, the adoption of regulations which will concern the evaluation of work. This aspect was not regulated earlier, while in many schools it functioned, raising emotions. The intention of the legislator is to regulate this sphere, in other words, the introduction of legal provisions which would allow the functioning of regulations. Of course, they would ultimately define the indicators that will be adopted. This is important because, of course, we have issues that are simply different for many types of schools. So we have the specificity of a particular school, a type of school, and only then can we talk about specific ways of evaluating the work of a teacher, i.e. in the case of this school in a given environment, in a given locality. Thus, on the one hand, there will be uniform criteria in these rules, and on the other hand we will have rules that will define specific labour indicators. In other words, it will allow this sphere, which was not regulated or regulated sometimes in a way that arouses the emotions of teachers, simply regulate, in other words, so that it refers to the work of a teacher in a particular school. And of course, these regulations would have to be assessed by the pedagogical board, by the trade unions. In other words, we understand that the adoption of certain specific criteria, i.e. indicators, in this regulation would, on the one hand, be subject to some control of the pedagogical board and, above all, of trade unions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u210	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about a leave of absence for health reasons, because the Minister didn't calm me down, arguing why this holiday was so cut off. Firstly, I would ask you to specify the number of teachers to which the Teacher Card applies, teachers, educators, in general all those to whom the Teacher Card applies. Secondly, what were the real motives, apart from the fact that local governments wanted to do so, because I understood that, but not everything that local governments mean is moving in... Why did you decide to limit the rights of teachers? And the third line. What can be the result? Could you possibly introduce them to us?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u211	I wouldn't want to be imprecise about the exact number of teachers covered by the Teacher's Card... [[We can round it up to hundreds of thousands.]] Well, there's about 600,000 of them. I'll give you a precise number in a minute. There is no other bottom here when it comes to these activities. Because, of course, the issue has become, so to speak, a question raised quite often in the case of... Well, there's 580,000 of them, which is like I said, about 600,000. It's just that the question, and it's kind of like it's coming up quite often even in public circulation, this holiday... Even in this debate on reform, there were voices that said that it was like a formula used for other purposes than those for which leave was provided. In other words, the most important objective is to clarify the goal: to carry out the recommended treatment. And there's another question. As I said before, this would involve a disease that is at risk of occupational disease or one that is affected by work. In other words, this factor didn't matter before, it didn't matter what caused the teacher's illness. And the essence of this holiday is precisely that it is connected with the work actually carried out. Next: such a decision would be given by a doctor of occupational medicine. Of course, these regulations clarify certain things that were also emotional earlier. The first vacation is after seven years. The case law was in that direction that these 7 years should be worked full-time. Now we say it doesn't have to be that way. It's supposed to be no less than a second job. It was a very often raised thread. The teacher could have reduced his job for various reasons and this automatically excluded him from the group of people who could benefit from it. This also applies to employment breaks. If the teacher was on a break, the 7-year period was interrupted, and at the time... on this change we say that if he has a break in employment for up to 3 months, he will be able to get a benefit. That's another line. With regard to the case law relating to leave for health reasons, the employer will bear the costs here. This is a way out not only for self-government but also for teachers themselves, because this lack, so to speak, of certain precision caused such a feeling... The rules weren't quite clear, because some teachers had this vacation, for others they didn't. The proposed provisions clarify this, but they also sort of go out to the teachers and give them a sense of justice. Up to now, an innocent break from work or a loss of employment has eliminated them from the possibility of taking leave for health reasons. I think everyone will be interested in ensuring that these criteria are uniform, transparent, the same for everyone.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u212	Are there any more questions? Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u213	I'll ask you again. First of all, I would like to start by saying that the indicators set by the school and at the level of the school... The regulations that contain them are set by the school director after consulting the pedagogical board and the trade union organizations. It's not like these opinions are binding. They must be presented, the director must wave them in front of someone and have them in the binder, but it doesn't matter what it says. Let's be honest. The world isn't perfect. The conditions must be met, so such opinions must be. That's it. Minister, here's the question. Do you, by proposing such a law, allow Yeah, it seems so. ? would there be different levels, different performance indicators in relation to the same criteria that will apply in different schools? Most of the criteria are many... They apply and are the same, same for all schools. It should be regulated at the Ministry level and someone should be responsible for it. At local level, this issue can be regulated in very different ways, depending on the director's personality and views. There are very few statutory restrictions here. Do you allow the indicators to be very different for different schools in the same cases? The law writes about the level of compliance with the criteria, which means that the indicators must be sufficiently precise here. Is it said that the criterion is met... that it is negative, good, very good or distinctive? How's that supposed to be? I'm asking because it's all about money and fighting and being a lot of teachers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u214	Mr. Senator! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have a situation in which, in any case, when it comes to the issues of opinion by the pedagogical council or trade unions, not everything that happens at school level is binding or as you have said. So if the senator asks, we can say that this opinion of trade unions is binding where we say, for example. about the benefit fund and its rules of procedure, i.e. it cannot be accepted without the consent of the union. But it's like it doesn't go beyond the other legal standards that work in the educational system, which means there's nothing wrong with it. Come on. If we assume that really the evaluation of work is carried out and supervision is carried out by the school head, then I understand that the person who is legally entitled to do so should have an impact on what is happening at school and on making a certain assessment. So that it is difficult to lead to a situation where the evaluation of the work of a director or teacher would be carried out by trade unions. In other words, we understand that the union is a guardian of certain activities, it is a monitoring element, the same applies to the pedagogical board, but it is difficult to imagine a situation in which the director would not be affected. Of course, it's worth the concern that the senator was talking about to come back, it's a matter of law and decisions that will be made. Naturally, the uniform detailed criteria for assessing the work of a teacher, as set out in the Regulation, will apply throughout the country. In other words, it will be an objective fact for the whole of Poland, for all schools, a fact to which everyone will refer. As I said, these criteria will be detailed, uniform. And these regulations, which will be set by school heads, will define labour indicators, but at the level of the individual criteria, in other words they will specify in detail how we will refer to the criteria for assessing work at the various grades of promotion, except that they will not create any new criteria, criteria which the regulation does not provide for. It'll just be a little more specific. This three-step arrangement will be maintained: the law, the Teacher's Charter, the regulation and on this basis the built-in regulations, which will clarify, details the individual criteria contained in the regulation at the level of the school concerned. As I said, they have to clarify these criteria in some way, because it is difficult to accept the same criteria for a special school, for a school that is, as we say, an elite high school and for a rural primary school that operates in a specific environment. But basically, when we judge the work of a teacher... Well, so far the regulations have defined it, so there is no revolution here, we have rather progress, we are going to clarify certain things that may have been unclear there. Now every teacher at the school level will know what is expected of him, it will be enshrined in the regulation, and how the criteria will be understood at the school level. This is an element that is designed to ensure some kind of safety of an objective assessment of the teacher.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u215	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u216	Minister, that's how it's gonna be for teachers. And if the director's attitude is to raise a serious ethical objection, then who's gonna judge who's gonna do it. The parole board? How will it determine the validity criteria or the weight of these criteria? There's still a need for an opinion here. What opinion will the probation officer need? Is he gonna do this to himself, according to his own judgment, which is ethical?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u217	Please note that the evaluation of the school head's work was carried out as a result of the supervisory authority, which means there is no revolution here. It's obvious... [[That was not the ethical criterion, Minister.]] But I'm talking about evaluating the headmaster's work. I'm talking about what's in the bill and how we want to further anticipate certain actions. In other words, if we have a surveillance system that provides that the principal of the school is a key element of supervision, another element that controls it is the school curator. That's the logic of the rules. And then there's the Minister of Education... We're not talking about the fact that the individual organs outside this system are interfering with... They can control what is happening with regard to the different actors, i.e. it is obvious that the school head will be in the case of the pedagogical supervisor. As far as the assessment of the school head is concerned, the criteria that concern the school head must necessarily be taken into account. The regulation will define those elements which are characteristic of the work of the Director As I said, in the case of legislation that existed earlier, there is no huge revolution here in terms of evaluation of work. However, it was done under certain, you can say, social control, because both trade unions and the host body participated in this process. [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, but the Minister isn't answering my questions. Will there be an ethical criterion? Who will determine the importance of these criteria?]] I answered the question about what criteria are taken into account in evaluating the school director's work, i.e. the principal as manager and principal as teacher. I didn't say anything about ethical criteria. [[And that's what I'm asking, isn't there going to be an ethical criterion?]] I think how you judge the school principal's work... That, of course, is what the Teacher's Card is talking about. The provisions of the Teacher Charter specify what criteria are taken into account in this assessment. As I understand it, a regulation issued under the Law "Teacher's Card must not go beyond what is contained in the Act, in its Article. 6. [[I'm very sorry, but since the director will also be judged as a teacher and the teacher will also be judged ethically, I understand that the director will also.]] [[Voice from the room:...and moral.]] [[I'm asking because there's still no clear answer.]] As far as the bill is concerned, she doesn't say anything about the teacher's ethical and moral evaluation.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u218	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u219	Thank you. Minister, I would like to ask you about the form of employment of teachers in adult schools, because according to the project that we are currently considering... Art. 10a The Teacher's Charter imposes only employment on the basis of a contract of employment, abolishes civil law contracts. The teacher who is employed in adult schools takes part-time employment, his work is not permanent. What is the point of hiring a teacher for an employment contract when he conducts classes for several hours and irregularly, e.g. within one semester or on the appointed days of a given semester? However, the employment contract for a few days or a few hours in my opinion does not affect the quality of work or the quality of education, it only causes more bureaucracy. It seems to me that the form of a civil law agreement, the application of which is made possible by the Labour Code, would be justified in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u220	As far as these demands are concerned, they are based on a certain analysis of what is really happening in schools, in other words, employees are employed in accordance with the Labour Code and this does not allow employment contracts to be concluded on the basis of civil law agreements. These provisions, which are in the Teacher's Charter, do not provide for the possibility of hiring teachers in schools and institutions on the basis of civil law agreements. As for the analysis that comes from the Educational Information System, there were cases of hiring teachers in this way, i.e. quite a free interpretation of the rules. As far as the current situation is concerned, we are dealing with a situation where teachers are employed under the Labour Code. We are also dealing with a situation in which authorities operating non-local government units are, of course, receiving grants. Since such measures are provided for the financing of pedagogical staff, it is necessary to sort this area out. In other words, the Labour Code defines the type of contracts to be concluded In other words, they are those which are closed for a trial period, for an indefinite period of time, and the conditions of employment. The point is that a fixed-term employment contract may be concluded several times, i.e. an employer may indicate the reasons why such action will be taken. The arrangement of this sphere is certainly beneficial for the worker, i.e. the benefits that result, i.e. those relating to holiday leave, social benefits, pension contributions, sickness insurance, accident insurance or the exercise of the privileges of the Teacher Charter, which include the inclusion of teachers, such as the Minister's award, career promotion or improvement. It's more like this one... I understand that from the point of view of those who employ, the lack of such a term as in the case of a card, perhaps was simply beneficial to the employer. However, it creates a kind of clear benefit for the employee. Employment for employment also guarantees certain security, because teachers and non-teachers employed to conduct classes, as provided for by the Charter, cannot be convicted by a final judgment for a deliberate crime, not being subject to criminal proceedings against them. In addition, there are other provisions which are linked to the Charter, i.e. the question of a final judgment for intentional crime, etc. So it will be clear to the parents of the students that those teachers who are employed in this way simply give a guarantee of everything that a teacher who has the right qualifications and is employed just like a teacher who is covered by the Teacher's Charter. Next: the issue of supervision. This is also due to the fact that the probation officer will be able to check out these qualifications. Because the probation officer really had trouble checking the qualifications of people employed in a different way than under an employment contract. And this formula seems as if from the point of view of the actors operating in the school as much as possible, because it is beneficial for the worker himself, and it is for the benefit of the students.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u221	Mr. Senator Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u222	If I may, Minister... But I meant something else. I mean, when you have to hire a specialist, let's say, four hours or, say, ten hours, and there's no need to hire another person. This is an obligation to work on the basis of an employment contract. And why can't it be, for example? A contract-order?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u223	We're talking about a teacher, otherwise, a person who should be qualified. Besides, the rules regulate situations that may arise. Most often in situations like these, which, yes, occur, maybe too often... In fact, there is the possibility of hiring a teacher, which is, in other words, a teacher can be employed when he is not qualified to teach an appropriate subject, with the consent of the school curator. [[But I'm not talking about these cases, Minister. I'm not talking about hiring someone unqualified...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u224	Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u225	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, there are many words here about evaluation, although this is not directly contained in the law itself. But the Minister also spoke about it, and I also know that the Minister is certainly involved in the construction of the regulation on this matter. Could you give the Minister a few examples of this? I don't know, 2, 3, 5, 10 examples, what criteria do you think will be at ministerial level to take into account when assessing the teacher's work from the policy point of view of the Minister of National Education? Just one little question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u226	We are dealing with a rather minor issue earlier about the evaluation and evaluation criteria of the teacher, i.e. those matters that were really down to certain qualifications, to the degree of obtaining a specific vocational promotion required by a given degree of placement, and to the issue of the evaluation of the professional acquis. So, in other words, these criteria were enough to say poor. Of course, what seems important as regards the key dimension is the question of linking some of the teacher's work to the evaluation of his actions. So it is kind of a matter of achievement, as we would say, and issues related to both education and teaching. As I said, what had been accused of previous regulations, which concerned the evaluation of the achievements, and the evaluation of the teacher's work... In fact, they did not make it clear. In other words, with regard to the provision, of course, the draft regulation, which was annexed to the Act as an implementing regulation, included certain issues. However, this is a matter which, in any event, will already be discussed in the context of the procedure of the Regulation itself.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u227	Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u228	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive information, I think we will use it very much. Now, sort of from a different shelf, Minister. Could I ask the Minister because I'm sure the Minister knows it, and we'd like to know which countries we might be looking at and where there are similar assessment systems? That's the first question. Two. Could the Minister say... Do you know the Minister's criteria for evaluation are probably the best education today, i.e. what criteria for evaluation are followed by a curator in Finland? And the third question. Minister, are you closer to the Finnish model, or to the German model, or to the American model, when it comes primarily to the quality assessment system of education?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u229	I, of course, remember the senator's questions, so that... [[No, I haven't asked that yet.]] They're already down in the last debate, so I remember them, of course... [[Then answer the same question.]] I answered the senator's questions back then, too. Of course, we try to analyze the Finnish model all the time. He's obviously... One might say that some models are similar. In other words, there are areas where the student is taught in an integrated way and there is a system of teaching in question. However, the design of preparing the teacher for the profession is different. In other words, we have another teacher's preparation system that will teach as part of preschool education, another one we have in the case of the one who will teach at the next stage, and another one in the case of the one who will teach at the present level. We also have certain universities that educate teachers. Of course, there are some traditions in which there is no supervision system as constructed as in Poland. But that comes from a certain tradition. The system that operates in Poland is based on what I was talking about, i.e. the concentration of supervision of the teacher in the hands of the school principal, and he is still crucial for every system. Of course, the question is what is the issue of leaning over the organisation of the whole system and such an element as the education curator, which in every system does not have to function. However, in Poland it is kind of a traditional element and is expected to be an element, and in some cases many people, many institutions or organizations expect it. That was the social expectation that this role of probation officer would remain or restore him to certain powers that the probation officer had lost in the meantime. So here this action does not differ from the Polish tradition. Like I said, in the case of Finland... Well, it's hard to refer to a country that has historically evolved in a different way, whose system also functioned in a different way, whose system is connected with tradition, so that we would say, and Scandinavian and Protestant, which is different from what we do. We, of course, are looking at the Finnish or European system. But if we're to look at other elements, we'd have to try to figure out how many hours a student really spends at school, how many teaching hours in different countries, how many table teachers are there for how many students. And we can say that in this respect in Poland... well, it depends on how these indicators are assessed, but it is not that we deal with a system in which the student does not know how much time he spends in school, nor is it that one teacher has more students than in many other European countries. We look at different models or we try to look at them and of course we can talk about the Finnish model, we can say that great results are in Singapore, but this is a different culture, it's kind of a joke, country-city, where some things are easier to do. We can consider why Estonia has achieved higher or better results in some studies in recent years, but this is also a country with a completely different surface, different history, different tradition, a country which is much smaller and thus less diverse in terms of social, territorial, historical structure. You can't transfer every system exactly. We may wonder why in Finland 8,5% 15-year-olds want to become computer scientists, in Poland 1.5% , and in the European Union, 3.5%. These are, of course, questions, we may wonder how to pursue this, we may wonder if the way in which we try to, so to speak, introduce a certain modernity in the Polish school... which results. We can reflect on the causes of quite large or significant, clear progress that took place in the following years after the systemic transformation. We were able to observe this process at the time of international research. And why was it blunted in 2015? Of course, we analyse these questions, try to answer them. This certainly does not mean that, for this reason, we will give up international research or research that can be carried out because we are trying to give an important answer to this. But also looking at the system, we can say that we are trying to imitate some of the solutions that work in Finland. The change which will concern the teacher education and improvement system, which we will introduce in the case of improvement through this law and amendment, is, well, mimicking some of the things that are in the old EU countries, but that is, the teacher improvement system is to a large extent covered by the State's care. There are not so many entities that operate on the market and are involved in improving teachers. The change that we propose in the case of changes in higher education, agreed with the Minister of Science and Higher Education, is also going in the direction, as if closer to the Finnish model, that is, that only certain universities, leading specific courses, can engage in teacher training, in order to actually separate, as is the case in Finland, that we are clearly leaning over those teachers who teach in early school education, and we want to strengthen this teaching system which concerns the teachers concerned. So it's not like we're dealing with the reception of one model, it's just the ones that can work in our system. And just as I said, this bill, and especially one of the amendments, in fact, at least as far as the improvement system is concerned, will certainly strengthen and smooth things out. And the parole officer isn't here...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u230	Are there any more requests for questioning? Then thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I ask you to take the floor of Senator Zarin.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u231	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have a very important document ahead of us. It was also important to discuss during the committee meeting between Professor Wach and Minister Zalewska. It was undoubtedly particularly interesting. Everything that was happening here was, in a sense, a continuation of this discussion. I do not want to repeat myself too much, because many threads have been taken up here, I would like to focus on just a few things that seem important and worth highlighting to me, because they relate to a certain difference, probably fundamental, between the creators of the law and representatives of the opposition, which is Professor Wach. I'll tell you right now, both sides are right. It's not like it's a discussion with no reason on either side. I think such a classic example is here, among others. A case that was in the shadows at some point, and it's important. This is a matter of professional promotion of teachers. Indeed, one can wonder whether the new proposal for extending the career promotion path to 15 years is another instrument, alongside the other existing in this law, which in fact strengthens the position of the school director towards teachers. If we approach this from this point of view, we will have to say to ourselves that the dominant thing about school is competition and immanent conflict between the principal's office and the teacher's room. It seems that this is too one-sided picture of the school. For many years I was a teacher and we didn't really see it that way, although I was working in conditions where there really was such a dominant. It was still in communist times, where teachers were rather on the side of Solidarity, and the management was on the other side. Today there is no such conflict, and our generation could be freed from such a view of the relationship between the management and the teacher's room. Only in the perspective of very, fortunately, old and distant times. Why is the promotion path extended to 15 years if it is not Just an expression of the supposed desire to highlight the conflict between the management and teachers? Well, it seems that this is a de facto incentive to help a teacher, like any person with flaws and qualities, to understand through the educational role of the law that there is a constant motivator for the teacher to learn and become better. This is important in view of the fact that it plays an incredibly important role The role of educator for a very delicate matter, such as the disciple, the youth. In this way, it can be presumed that if a positive description of this provision is given on the school premises... I would encourage opposition representatives and representatives of the ruling party to pay attention to this description. This can be interpreted as building a certain mutual trust and alliance between management and teachers. It is an instrument for constantly giving the teacher a signal that throughout his entire teaching life he has the opportunity to improve knowledge and skills. Why is this so important and helpful to one another? Because... I suspect that anyone who was or is a teacher is aware that in this profession there is some kind of natural incentive to become a routine, to fall into something that is actually very dangerous in the process of teaching, because after some time it also creates boredom. Boring is a very difficult thing to deal with, especially when this boredom is transferred from teacher and his mentality to student, to class. Thus, such provisions in this Act I'm showing it on this example. The provisions, which can be understood as mutual support in the pursuit of a better education and education process, can be interpreted in this way, and not necessarily as an overmining of any conflict existing between the management and the teachers. And here we are entering this second very important issue, namely the question of indicators and regulations. Well, without a doubt, the idea of this point is that on the one hand we should conclude exactly what you meant by Professor Wach, the Senator, namely that there should be a unity of education in Poland at a very important level, i.e. on an ethical level, please. There is nothing to hide, it is known that the educational process cannot take place without an ethical context. I can't imagine a teacher encouraging a student to steal. It is simply not in the model of education and education of a teacher who would be part of such a profession, in a convention that allows, for example, I don't know what purpose a teacher would have made up in his education class. The ethical, clear view of the border, the extent to which the teacher can turn when it comes to raising young people, of course, should be and must be. The matter's delicateness, the writing, all these are undoubtedly very important matters. That is why the Minister also encouraged your professor to take part in this because it is not easy to define practically. In any case, there must be this canon, which also covers ethical issues. I understand this regulation, which is the next step in creating a kind of set of criteria for assessing the teacher, as a proposal for an internal dialogue at the level of a specific school between the principal and the teacher's room, parents, a proposal for a discussion on the model of this particular school, a school to which the rules apply. Ladies and gentlemen, then you can see that this instrument is again a very strongly encouraging instrument for all those involved in the education process to have an impact on the subject that is the most important there, the student. The Ministry is giving an instrument. Of course, this instrument can be misused, it can be a stupid director, it can be hateful teachers, it can just be lazy people. Well, practice is diverse. Of course, we will not have all the problems in the bill, all the diversity of the world, but it seems to me that this should be seen as a kind of instrument to support the empowerment of all those who form a school so that the educational process and education can be best. Let the teachers exert themselves, let the principal exert his mind and together with other actors indicate what these regulations should be, so that we talk about a specific example, and we all emphasize that each school is individual, each one is different These rules could have been created. By the way, because of course I don't want to think of it as the most important thing... But if we assume that we will also include non-public schools, e.g. Catholic schools, that is why in these Catholic schools there would be no individual scratch, which is available because this is the nature of the school, and students know which school they go to, and parents know which school they send their children to. They don't have to send them, but they can. This diversity is therefore also honoured in this way. And one can presume that the ministry has behaved very pragmaticly here, but at the same time gently, understanding that the matter in question is much richer than some single duty order which would be passed in compulsory mode as a regulation of the Ministry of National Education. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]] [[Time's up.]] Thank you very much. Time's up, I guess. Last sentence: undoubtedly very happy And it is also glad that we agree on the first part of this law, which ignores this article. 76, that in this law we have very good solutions concerning and transparency, and subsidies, but also, and this is the answer to your senator's question, a possible search for savings in connection with the wastefulness that functions in the education. And this is also a bill that tries to catch places where there is absolutely no need for waste. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u232	Thank you. Senator Mikołajczyk has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u233	Dear Marshal, High Senate! The Education Finance Act introduces a number of solutions and important changes. It is another very important law in education reform. Finally, I am delighted that the subject of the weekly mandatory hours for teachers, speech counselors, psychologists and career counselors, as well as pedagogical therapists, has been addressed. The pensum of these teachers will not be able to exceed 22 hours. At present, the working hours of these teachers vary widely, which often causes some concern among this group of teachers, especially when they meet at various types of specialist conferences and talk about the salary that has been allocated in individual institutions, in individual municipalities. I welcome the fact that the target is to introduce an allowance for distinguishing work for qualified teachers, those who should be and very often they are The champions of the profession. It's extremely exciting. We have wonderful teachers in Poland. This allowance, which is intended to serve as a motivating function, will be a complement to the current system of professional promotion in connection with the system of remuneration. As a multi-annual school principal, I would also like to address the issue that has been addressed here today. At the committee meeting as well as now, at the plenary session, most of the time, i.e. the question of assessing the teacher's work. The evaluation, of course, carried out by the school's principal in the framework of pedagogical supervision. The pedagogical supervision consists of three very important, most important elements, namely control, support and evaluation, which we could probably talk about here for a long time, but we will focus, briefly, on this evaluation of work. Many workers are subject to a job assessment. The Act on Local Workers also provides for an obligation to assess the work of these workers. Yes and here the evaluation of teachers' work Or an evaluation of the director's work was functioning and functioning. Only on certain issues, such as evaluation of work, evaluation of professional achievements, this regulation will now take place. And in the context of the indicators that were very often raised today, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the criteria should be set out in the regulation as much as possible. However, we cannot record all the indicators related to this assessment, and this is because each institution, each school has a different specificity. We know what happened to such a cool, ideal tool, which is external evaluation. External evaluation, evaluation of school work by merely describing the criteria and indicators, unfortunately, did not fulfil its task. Very common I'm sorry about that. It was based only on the creation of documentation, which has nothing to do with the quality of school work and the improvement of this quality. Although this is something to think about, because perhaps it is worth some of the indicators to be described. The description of the others should, of course, be addressed to the school board in agreement with the 3 most important subjects of the school. Because a good school is a school in which three subjects are perfectly compatible: teacher, student and parent. So maybe they should set the other indicators and implement them. Ladies and gentlemen, at a school where I had the pleasure of managing, many things have been described in the procedures. And I had, among other things. the procedure for assessing the work of teachers, the procedure that we worked out during one of the debates, because the constant part of my school's work was the debates in which students, parents and teachers participated. And there also we have developed some criteria and indicators for this procedure, which until now works perfectly and to which no one has any reservations, because we ourselves have developed these indicators. So perhaps it is worth considering whether to define some of the indicators in the regulation and leave the others to be worked out by the institution, the school concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, ethical criteria. Well, I'm surprised that we're raising ethical criteria, because we're talking about school work, working with children and young people. They are extremely important in our work, so I am very surprised by the attitude of the state, who are looking for something inappropriate in the fact that ethical criteria will be described. As part of the management control of schools, institutions, other bodies, there is such a thing as a code of ethics, that's what we're talking about. So every school has a code of ethics that we should follow. This is all the more so for us teachers who are going to raise future generations and model their behavior and behaviour. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I am also very pleased that this law regulates the issue of... making the use of rest periods more flexible by teachers in management positions at school. This is an extremely important topic, very often raised by the heads and vice principals of schools who called for the regulation of holiday issues. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u234	Thank you, Senator. Senator Wach is speaking.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will try to speak briefly, although this rarely works, because I have already spoken a lot as rapporteur for minorities. I would like to start by saying that I respectfully refer to the voices I have heard here, and in particular to the statements of the rapporteur, Senator Kopiczko, and Senator Mikołajczyk, because they, first of all, were teachers, second of all, school heads. It means they practically know what they're talking about. I was an academic teacher, I've been on leave for quite a long time, so my direct contact with this matter is theoretical and results from the knowledge of the provisions of the law, not from practice. So that I respectfully approach it. Nevertheless, I have the impression that both the State and the Minister are talking about the ideal world and not about the real world. The law cannot assume the goodwill of all and the cooperation of all, because reality is different, as we and the state find out almost every day. So much for general business. As for this perfect world and the real world, in which various records are actually used for their benefit and advantage... It is quite common and often occurs. This is also in the opinion of the Polish Teachers Association, whose representative appeared today and said it very clearly. This opinion has not yet been mentioned in the reports, and it was quite comprehensively presented at the meeting of our committee. I move on to the point and to what I would like to add to my previous speeches, to make it more clear. In this respect, the Teacher's Card... It is, in particular, an evaluation, i.e. an article. It's a 76-year-old bill. I think there are three major, new things that will pose a threat if they are not well regulated. They themselves are not reprehensible, but the way they are regulated is, in my opinion, unacceptable. Firstly, the teacher's distinguished assessment and the financial congratulation followed. This is actually a very good thing, but without very precise criteria and defining the course of the procedure, determining how it is to be, will move into school and between teachers very bad relations and Because it will depend directly on the director, what I called servitism, and thus too far-reaching, servitude. We should listen and listen to our bosses. I always listen to Professor Wind when he punishes something, that's what I do, because he's the head of the committee, and so on, but there are limits here. The novelty here is the distinguishing degree. The way it is regulated is very important. The point is not to spoil the relationship at school so that there are no irregularities and not to build an overly strong position as a principal. That's the way I'm gonna put it. Secondly, I still find it inappropriate to separate the criteria. The criteria are in the Minister's office, and the indicators are in the school. Perhaps the opinion of Senator Mikołajczyk is most appropriate here, which says that it would have to be divided, and some indicators that are more sensitive and general, move to the level of the Minister's regulation and not leave them at school level. Maybe it's the right thing to do. I would count on your experience here. Finally, I would like to say that the novelty here is not so much an ethical assessment, because she has always been and the teachers have actually got used to it, is a certain practice of proceeding, but adding in the draft moral evaluation regulation. So it would be moral and ethical. As for morality, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to say that morality is different. This is a very sensitive sphere. I could give very different examples that would be drastic, but I will give quite common and not very drastic, namely the example of the concubine. Solutions that involve a concubine at different legal levels also exist in Poland. More than half of the children in Poland are born in informal relationships. Unlike marriages... Given only civil relationships, so concubines, and the birth of children... Such unclassical families, without formal union, are very common. Some may view it as moral or immoral. I know institutions that say it's immoral, although they talk about it with a little reprimand, because these kinds of relationships are common. And if the principal... He's supposed to set the levels of performance. It's moral and ethical. If such a record were there, it would be wrong, it would be harmful, it would probably be contrary to the constitution. It would be difficult to get a stand on this issue, although there is a human rights tribunal in Strasbourg. So that these are things that raise doubts. It's not just the ideas and the fact that with maximum goodwill... It is a practice that can result from such provisions. Financial congratulation, quite clear, for a distinction in the absence of clear criteria will distort school life He can do it. And this division of competences. I don't think there should be any criteria... ethics, the more that it's established and we know what to expect from it, but morality... I would definitely object to her performing among the ministerial criteria and setting different levels of morality for these teachers as part of the school indicators. Well, good will will often occur, but not always, which is why we need to formulate regulations so as not to harm anyone and distort the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u236	Thank you. You have a voice, Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u237	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For starters, a few sentences of introduction. There were at least two people in the world of science, higher education, two excellent senators and at the same time teachers, school heads. I would like to say a few words from the point of view of a person who managed education for 15 years, but above all as a parent and a person who loved decentralisation. I'd like to say yes to the rhetoric of Senator Zarin. It would be very good if we as legal politicians had time to discuss what would be the best common model. In math, if there's a few harvests, there's a part of it that's gonna be there. And the point is to find here this common part, common to people living in Poland, having children in schools at different levels, etc. Mr. Senator, what you said was that building a friendly climate by politicians is the foundation of many areas of action, and, above all, in education and education... We went to school ourselves, we have children or grandchildren who go to school. I have to say that now, because of my grandchildren, I think I'm getting even more involved in school life than when my kids went to school. To what the senator was talking about, to knowledge and qualifications, one must attach a very important thing that the senator was not talking about. And that's why we need this discussion. It's called skill. In every area, people have knowledge, but they don't have skills. As the Minister said, knowing my questions... My questions were different, the Minister's answer was much broader, although in some of the passages I am about to mention, it had a common denominator with these questions. It is important to build this common perception of values in education. I also want... Because the senator said waste and finance. As a person who has a lot of experience in these finances, I want to assure you that the creation of a system that is based on the fact that we set rules, very general, and the less power of each level interferes with the management of the school directly, the better the results, also the economic... If there's waste in the world somewhere, there's no regulation, no law, Mr. Senator, it's not going to end. But this is a completely different subject. Believe me, I can provide evidence. Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk wondered why we are surprised that ethical criteria etc. In part, Professor Wach told me about it. I read a lot about the Finnish system. What concerns ethics, religion are mandatory things in this school and no one has any doubts about it. But as you add moral and ethical criteria, we're beginning to have these doubts. And if we add to what trust we give you and what you do with Polish law in many situations, it will explain why we lose this trust. And that's why we're having these doubts about lawmaking. Now I'm going to refer to the trial itself. You are moving towards the centralist state and, as the Minister said... Maybe I'll quote it. I have written this down and will spread it all over: The teacher will now know what is expected of him. Of course, I don't take it out of context, because the context was about evaluation, criteria, etc. That is why this is your way of looking at education. That's why I keep asking the Minister about... I'm glad you said that we're looking at different systems now, and we're looking at them, because before that, you said that we have ours and we're looking at it. I think that our wisdom should be based on the fact that what we have is good, great, we will promote, but some things we can also preview and use. And what are those Finns doing that you mentioned today? They're walking away from this model right now. It says here that the Finnish system is based on total decentralisation and departure from widely understood evaluation of both teachers by authorities and students by teachers. Of course, we are still far from such a system. We will not create it with one legal act, but you must have a good will to go towards thinking that the best people, as Senator Mikołajczyk said, are members of the school board, parents' council, students, school headmaster, etc. to assess the quality of the school. These are the foundations of the evaluation. The foundation of school success, Ladies and gentlemen, is the teacher. The more you impose on him various kinds of criteria, assessments, so that he knows what is expected of him, the less progress will be made, because he will only do what the authorities expect. A lot of the teachers are going to go towards the servility that the professor was talking about. And those who are most successful in education have gone in the opposite direction: they have eliminated the curatoria, they have eliminated supervision, and they have only agreed on those canons that Professor Żaryn spoke of. These countries agreed on the quality of education and expectations, and details were given to the pillars of education, i.e. teachers. And now, at the end, two words about making law. Once again, the fundamental law, as we have heard, was consulted... I've been asking the Senator the rapporteur about how it went down. I will read to you a part, a fragment, I do not know what, a letter or text, which Mr Wojciech Princek addressed to the Minister. He writes: "The distribution by Minister Anna Zalewska that changes in education law were agreed during the work of the team is serious abuse, disrespect towards parliamentarians, local governments, parents' and teachers' associations. The MEN's solutions to this law are harmful, unfair and lower the professional status of the teacher. We tried. You're writing the book. But the attitude of Minister Anna Zalewska shows that the time for dialogue in education has long ended. Ladies and gentlemen, Professor, are these standards for creating a certain value canon in education? I don't decide who's right. I am merely talking about the fact that such a system of conduct is unworthy of creating law in the Polish Parliament. And what we're talking about is that we're extending the lead to a promotion to 15 years. After all, we do this without discussing with the environment concerned. Please do not convince me that 15 years is better than 10 years, that ethical and moral evaluation is better than, suppose, ethical evaluation accepted as a standard, etc. Hence our fears and voices of opposition. Don't centralize what you don't need. Resist on freedom and freedom in terms of teaching methods and methods. Let's use good models that work in many countries, make our own model and promote it, not go towards a model based on curators, supervision, determining what the teacher is supposed to do and evaluating it. Now we tell him what to do, how to do, and we judge. This is a system typical of Eastern Europe, ladies and gentlemen. It stems from the tradition of the Polish state, which did not exist, was under partitions. It was then that education was controlled, it was checked whether the teacher was following the guidelines of authority. In many countries that have gone in the opposite direction... They're the most successful in education. Believe that building the authority of a teacher through the level of remuneration, training, refinement, giving measurement methods, and others... which the state should create within a single system for all schools... That's what makes the best of it. Making recipes, drawers, saying things like that, and we're gonna judge you if you're doing the right thing, just ends up with all the results of education. I ask you, in further work, to follow your trust in the Polish school, to the teachers, to the directors, so that there is as little guidance as possible from politicians from Warsaw, from the ministry, from the Polish parliament, because then education will have better results. With so much doubt, I personally will not vote in favour of this bill. There are many understatements here, various elements from different laws are mixed up. I believe that this is simply the introduction of another mess in the Polish school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u238	You have a voice, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u239	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister and Minister! I'm not going to talk about models, ideas, symbolism, etc., but about the typical prose of life. And this prose of life is changed by articles in the Teacher's Charter. While the title of the law on the financing of educational tasks describes half of them well, the next half is about something completely different. Changes to the Teacher's Charter introduced by the side gate... They're already, for example, not suspicious, but burdened with some mistake. I will stop at one of these amendments, namely Amendment 34 of Article. 76, which is a change in leave for health care. Ladies and Gentlemen, leave for health compensation, as the name and location of the bill indicates, was intended to protect health. That was the assumption, but during its use, the function, let's call it, health, has become one of the... In fact, this holiday has a social and stabilization function. That's the way it really is. We're talking about facts, not some ideas. We are not talking about legal texts, but about how these texts are used in life. Holidays for health patronage is a social function, because when it is rather than demographic and you have to decide which teacher to release... And it just lets you work for another year. Sometimes it's a decisive year. In those circles where there are conflicts, and yet it may be so, it gives those teachers who are not in the director's department the opportunity, let's call it escape. In those clusters where consent is given I probably shouldn't have said that from that speaker. There are situations where people say you're going to feel worse this year, so you're going to go on vacation for health problems. And a group, as a group, as a team, will survive. This also serves as a stabilization function. Because, please note, the profession of the teacher is very strong due to the way in which the employment relationship is established, i.e. the appointment certificate, but in some cases it is not enough. The possibility of taking a leave of absence for bad health, as I said, is a complement to the stabilization function. I know that. Teachers know that. Of course, there's a theory. You can come out here in a minute and prove to me that it's different, and talk about models, about ideology, but not about life, not about prose. I don't know why the ministry got so washed up, that right now, at this point, this leave for teachers to take away, I'm just saying, to take away some kind of authority. Why at this point? Why is it so important? We're in the middle of a reform. Notice, teachers in gremio... Of course, there were exceptions, but actually most of them believed in the Ministry's narrative that nothing bad would happen as a result of the reform. And nothing really happened, and it's a very big plus, trust... So why are we ruining this trust in this article, this change? In short, as a reward for your obedience to the reformation of your education, we will take away from you the privileges which you still have, some of the last. Is this how we treat those who cooperate with us who want to cooperate with us? And the reform isn't over yet. How do we know how teachers are going to behave, how we're going to pinch them, and how we're going to take it from them, maybe not so much as they deserve, but what they're used to. Maybe they're bad habits, but they are. I don't get it. When we implement the flagship reform of Law and Justice, it is in a law that speaks, at least in the title, about something completely different, that strikes teachers. Unless you want to conflict with us, with us here, that is. with the ruling political force, with the ministry, because someone's guilty will be in this situation. What will be the further effect, the delayed effect... There are nearly 600,000 teachers. Suppose only 500 could go... Please note that this is only an opportunity. After all, nowhere is it that 1/4 of the group goes on vacation for health reasons. It's just a possibility. We're taking this opportunity away from 500,000 people right now. None of this is really gonna come, when it comes to finance, savings are gonna be practically none, and we're gonna lose credibility, we're gonna lose trust. In the end, we will lose politically, ladies and gentlemen. That's how it's gonna be. This may not be a good argument here, from this speaker, and at this point, in the case of this bill, but it will be. Someone who doesn't understand it doesn't understand what 500,000 voters are times 2 or 3. That's what the Ministry's about, isn't it? 'Cause if that's what you're talking about, say it straight. This bill is certainly good, but not this point, not this one change. This one change is perverting this bill. And what's at the end? Ladies and gentlemen, if you'd come into the middle school, you'd notice that most of the teachers are women, it's a feminization of the profession. I remember when I started school... Because I'm a teacher. And I know what it's like now. There will be further feminization of the profession, it will just be so. If this is going to be the next result of this bill... I think that's the wrong approach to the problem. Let's reform the Polish school, heal it, but together with teachers. Let's not turn the teaching community against each other. Of course, it's completely different in theory, but in practice, it's gonna be like I said. Ladies and gentlemen, I am making an amendment to this. I'm just removing gmeraning on vacations for health reasons. And this is the last moment for you to think about it. I'm addressing the other side of the room. And they may have considered whether this is really a change without which the whole reform will collapse or if it is removed, this whole reform will collapse. Is it necessary, or is it necessary to live? Think about it. There's still a chance. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u240	Thank you. Senator Mikołajczyk's voice is 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u241	Dear Marshal, High Senate! I will address the matter that Senator Czerwiński was just talking about, which I very much appreciate, respect and always pay attention to what he has to say. However, I absolutely disagree, and it must be said here that this law contains the issue of taking leave to kill health. Well, ladies and gentlemen, what are we talking about here? There's no record of that. On the contrary, at the moment when the project came up, I had calls from teachers who thanked me for having finally settled the employment of those teachers who could go on this leave. So far, as the Minister has said, there is a question that the courts have ruled that only those who have been full-time in the last seven years can do so. What about teachers who had 17 hours or 4 years back instead of 18? They couldn't go on vacation. Now they're gonna be able to, 'cause it's gonna take a part-time job in the last seven years. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that changes have been made regarding the granting of leave to teachers for health punishment, but no one is taking it away. A leave of absence for health reasons will be given to the teacher for the treatment of a disease that is at risk of occupational disease or a disease in which the emergence of factors of the working environment or the way in which the work is carried out can play an important role. The need to give the teacher leave for medical treatment will be determined on the basis of a referral issued by the school's principal for medical examinations by the occupational doctor, and not by the doctor of first contact so far. I don't really understand what the problem is. Well, since the occupational medicine doctor is certifying that here's a young man who can become a teacher, why isn't the same doctor supposed to decide that this teacher can go on leave for health care or vacation related to his stay in a rehabilitation centre, a sanatorium, or some other place related to treatment, health saving? So that, ladies and gentlemen, as a person associated with education, I absolutely cannot agree, and I cannot allow it to sound like we're taking some kind of leave to break health. And only two more issues in the context of the previous speakers' statements. Of course I agree with that, Senator Czarnobaj, because we talk very often about the enlightenment that this space in education is extremely important. And we keep stressing that this space in context The effectiveness of teaching is extremely important and it must, of course, be. But some issues need to be settled, described. After all, they were very often described, changed in the previous 8 years of the Civic Platform government, I know this, I say this as the headmaster of the school Because, in general, we had to reinterpret many legal provisions related to education and change some issues. And one more request, because I absolutely wouldn't want it to sound like we're extending the promotion path to 15 years. Of course, that is the record, but please also emphasize that it is possible to close this path of professional promotion in a 10-year period. That doesn't mean it's gonna take everyone 15 years. On the other hand, I think that those who have been associated with education will agree that the 9-month internship does not always show that the teacher we have will be a great teacher in the next years of work, especially since we have much to do, Ladies and gentlemen, in the context of preparing these young people for school work. [[Time's up.]] They are substantively well prepared, but not always methodically, not always universities tell them, teach them how to work in school in the context of many aspects and factors of this case. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u242	Senator Kopiczko, you have a voice. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u243	Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! I'd like to speak on behalf of certified teachers, which are 317,000, that's 92%. , thank the Ministry for the bill prepared, for the fact that these teachers will be able to be promoted, because unfortunately for many years they have not been able to do so and cannot get a higher salary. Now it's a possibility. For this reason, thank you very much on behalf of these teachers, because I receive many votes in which these activities of the Ministry are very positive. And referring to this matter, because here Senator Mikołajczyk in part referred to certain statements, I would like to say that the criteria are defined, the criteria were set out in previous laws. Once again, I'll tell Senator Blackbay that these criteria are. Among the criteria set out in the Regulation is monitoring the effects of its activities, maintaining these effects at a high level, conducting at least once a year courses for trainee teachers, disseminating good practices. There are many other criteria that are defined, and for these criteria we will develop indicators. And I agree with you that the value of education, this foundation is the value of a teacher. And for the fact that this has been underlined in this bill, thank you very much to the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u244	Thank you. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. You have made proposals of a legislative nature in writing, Senator Czerwiński. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals submitted? I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am, of course, very pleased with the positive receipt of this bill. In these elements, which concern the financing of educational tasks, these were things repeated repeatedly by local authorities, but also by various other bodies operating in the education system. So, where this grant system was often not organized, it raised disputes, even litigation. Both sides of these litigations, i.e. self-government and self-government, as certainly the senators, are satisfied that this educational element will be regulated, ordered. But it is difficult to talk about education finances without those elements that also concern the Teacher's Charter and what is linked to the teacher's salary, with its tasks, because this is also an important element of funding. And certainly most of the issues that concern changes in the Teacher's Charter itself are, in general, the demands of many teachers, the need to sort things out. Therefore, these changes were also very expected, and in spite of certain voices, these changes were expected, which dealt with the ordering of the pension in the case of speech counselors, educators, psychologists, in the case of speech counselors and psychologists, which were also expected to be the ones that dealt with the ordering of issues related to professional promotion and evaluation criteria. Of course, if we're talking about the prose of life, then looking at how... I didn't want to continue with the subject, the issues of the criteria that were previously taken into account in the promotion. Well, from the point of view of the teacher, the vice principal, who for 10 years was responsible for issues related to trainees, a promotion who, due to his supervisory function, worked in such committees with the education curator, as a curator of education, or at present, also looking at certain judicial procedures concerning appeals against decisions that took place in these committees, we believe that in fact ordering this issue is for the benefit of all entities operating in the education system. I would also like to thank you very much for this discussion that has been going on about what is not really part of this law, which could be included in the regulation on the evaluation of the teacher's work. Of course, all the voices that have been cast here, i.e. those concerning criteria and indicators, and a certain evaluation of the work or what you were talking about, will also be taken into account. But we also talked about this... Well, let's take a look at the Teacher's Card. On the one hand, we have a teacher who evaluates Let's take a look at the article. 6 - who cares about the formation of moral and civic attitudes in students. So the teacher has to pay attention to it, and the teacher knows it, the student knows it, the parent knows it. This is one element of this system. On the other hand, we have an art. 9 The Master's Charter, which also makes it clear that the teacher adheres to fundamental moral principles. I was talking about the fact that this planned regulation is not a blank regulation, it is attached to the Teacher's Charter and is a derivative of the records that are there. So we're talking about what's just going on in the current legal system, which no one's questioning and what's been working for years. In other words, we think that some things that may have raised doubts as to whether they could have been interpreted differently, we will simply try to make things clear, transparent, and at the level of the regulation, and at the level of the regulations that will be created at school. On other issues that have been raised Of course we would like the perfect condition to function, but we are aware that everything will not function as it should. That's why there's a surveillance system, and that's why there are UKS, so that if there's any irregularities, we can capture them. But we have a deep conviction, and it is rather common, that this law will actually sort things out, lead to financial order and that funds that are public funds are spent in a proper way. There were also these terms about the arrangement here... Well, it wasn't the purpose of the team's minister appointed by you, in which there were three main actors, i.e. ministers, school heads, local governments and trade unions... there was no belief that we would agree on something there. The issue was about discussing, searching for common positions or looking for a close-up. I find it difficult to comment on the statements of the Minister of the Book, which I do not know, but I can only say that, well, we are talking about discussion, agreement, dialogue, but of course we understand what it means in a formal sense to agree, and we understand that it is difficult for this team to agree on all the elements and work out in such a way. The aim was simply to present the policy that we want to pursue so that the parties could respond to it for months, present their views and read the opinion of the Minister of National Education. I'm getting back to the point of the utmost importance. Well, you can't agree with this position, which concerns leave for health reasons, because... anyway, given how this issue was raised... Now that we're saying that a holiday for health reasons didn't fulfill its actual function, And it's been said straightaway. In other words, it did not serve to save health, and all the more so the essence of this change should be simply the ordering of this issue. In other words: this leave cannot fulfil the social function, but it is in fact intended to fulfil the function of helping the teacher. We may wonder whether over 500,000 or almost 600,000 teachers are on leave for 12,000 vacations. it is much or little, and what a holiday there is, but we cannot agree to the wording which says that this holiday does not serve to save health, but for example. Teacher protection. Like I said, you can't say yes, as if in principle, to such a definition. We believe that those elements that were introduced there, e.g. The doctor's opinion is crucial in order to actually combine the situation with the work of the teacher, which is how much it connects with the work he does, and secondly, to have the doctor do it... It was also mentioned in order to actually have a message on the basis of which the decisions were taken. This is also a point that is hard to agree with. That's what you've been talking about, Mr. Senator. The point is that, in fact, the rules, or rather the interpretations of those rules, excluded a large group of teachers from this possibility. Well, if we consider that 100,000 teachers for a while... well, maybe not so much present as present in the educational system that we were familiar with for the previous year, so if we consider that 100,000 teachers didn't have a full-time job, then we understand that anyway this group of teachers was eliminated. And our action is moving towards getting this group under control. We can't really predict for today... And we can talk about it here, for example. austerity measures, but if we look closely at the direction of this change, we will see that this is in line with the expectations of teachers. Like I said, someone lost 1 hour and had not 18 hours, but 17, as if they were creating a completely different teacher in the light of the recipe. So, in other words, this solution is much fairer, it doesn't give any reason to say the same as before. If we look at this in the context of the reform Of course, I am very pleased that the reform has been implemented very efficiently. And if we pay attention to the fact that today we have an increase in the number of jobs and an increase in employment, and this is in line with what the Minister of National Education predicted... So, in other words, the number of teaching posts has increased due to these conditions that we discussed during the implementation of the law, namely those that concerned another framework teaching plan and another number of branches of seventh and eighth classes and first and second secondary classes. This means that it is simply unacceptable to treat leave as a social, protective factor in order to survive, and to speak so directly about it. So that we, as much as possible, consider the amendment to be completely unreasonable, and from the point of view of purpose, meaning, and really in the context of the realities that are connected with it today, i.e. that we are dealing with an increase in employment. And we are dealing with a situation in which without this provision 100,000 teachers were eliminated, as if by the very assumption This was due to different judgments and interpretations of the rule. So one more time... Of course, I would like to thank you for this discussion, but also to point out that I have tried to avoid this discussion on criteria, saying that they are somewhat obvious. Because it is clear that the assessment of the teacher's work must be about educational issues, it must relate to his contact with his parents, students, it must concern issues related to teaching, and from the point of view of the director, the issue of organizing school work, contacts with his parents. It's obvious. And it can be said that the previous provisions also drew attention to this, only the real assessment of the acquis was down to some formal issues that were simply in this assessment, but now we will have completely different methods. In fact, the question of what a teacher has achieved in a given period of internship will actually be just one element. We can, so to speak, approach it in a way that is beneficial to the teacher. The issue of these specific criteria will, of course, be fully open when we are dealing with a draft regulation for discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u246	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, as legislative proposals have been tabled, I ask the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals presented and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Basic Health Care Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 634, and the report of the Committee in print No 634 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Waldemar Kraska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Senate Health Committee, the report of the committee on the Government's Basic Health Care Act. We just had a heated discussion about the education system. I also think that the health system is very important for citizens. A law on basic health care is a very important law because basic health care is the foundation of the health system. The experience of many countries shows that developed and organised basic health care is able to satisfy more than 90% the health needs of the population. In Poland too, it should be the foundation of the health care system. It has the predisposition and the need for potential, so it is necessary to define the role and place of primary health care in the health system. The proposed law will strengthen this part of the system and create the conditions for improving the efficiency of primary healthcare. The benefits for citizens will include improving the satisfaction of the care provided and improving the quality and safety of the services provided. One of the priorities is to put in place solutions for improving the quality of benefits and to create mechanisms for monitoring this quality. In particular, it is important to improve the coordination of patient care, so the key objective of the reform is to establish a core healthcare team that will take care of each patient. This team will include a doctor, nurse and midwife. The team's work will be coordinated by a doctor who will determine how and how to perform diagnostic and therapeutic procedures. Thanks to this reform, we will create mechanisms for continuous improvement of the quality and safety of the benefits provided and, as a result, for the organisation and functioning of the whole health system. We want to restore coordination of health care with a patient whose pillar will be the POZ. At the same time, as part of the coordination of the care of the recipient, the provider will be required to provide preventive care tailored to the age and gender of the recipient and identified health problems of the recipient and the cared population, as well as diagnostic tests and specialist consultations, in accordance with the individual diagnostic, treatment and care plan. In addition, a requirement has been introduced to designate the person to whom the organisation of the health benefit process will belong, including the provision of visible and publicly available information on the process and the provision of cooperation between healthcare providers. The decision on who will be responsible for coordinating the treatment process is entirely up to the healthcare provider. Such a role can be played, for example. Nursing staff or other qualified medical or possibly non-medical personnel responsible for organisational and technical activities in the medical facility concerned, in particular appointment of visits, confirmation of the completion of the subsequent stages of the diagnostic and medical process and ensuring cooperation between operators within the framework of comprehensive patient care. The primary objective of coordinated care consisting of the cooperation of primary healthcare doctors with outpatient specialist care doctors is to ensure, taking into account the actual health needs of patients, the provision of services in a planned and comprehensive manner. The new POZ, which will be built on a European and Western European model, is mainly based on family medicine, but it is not closed to other specializations as well. These changes require preparation, doctors are needed for this specialization and well-educated medical staff, so we want to achieve the desired condition from 1 January 2025. Finally, a primary healthcare professional will be a specialist in family medicine, a doctor in the field of family medicine, a specialist in general medicine, a specialist in first or second degree medicine, or a specialist in pediatrics. The pediatrician will continue to take care of children and young people until they reach the age of eighteen, subject to the completion of a course in family medicine. The funding of basic health care will, so far, be generated by the measures included in the National Health Fund's financial plan. The financial plan for the current year, i.e. 2017, shows that 9 billion 900 million zlotys are planned for basic health care, which represents almost 13.5% planned expenditure on benefits. We are assuming an annual increase in expenditure on the functioning of this part of health care. The new funding system is intended to be a incentive scheme, including: the effectiveness of the treatment, and is intended to ensure the optimal use of resources for health services. The objectives of the reform will be gradually introduced and further steps will therefore be introduced in the following years when all participants in the system are properly prepared for it. From 2018, we will launch a pilot programme, coordinated care and a new funding system will start from 2020, and family medicine will become a pillar of primary health care from 2025. Mrs. Marshal, the Senate, the committee's work on this bill was quite long, many questions were asked. I think the Minister answered these questions in quite detail. I'm just gonna bring up a few topics that were raised in the committee. E.g. A lot of concern... Besides, I think that all senators have received dozens, maybe hundreds of emails from concerned patients who are searching in this bill for sensitive data, i.e. data about their health, will be uncontrollablely leaking out of the system. The Minister has explained it many times, calmed it down, because this bill will not lead to something like this. The issue of funding basic health care was also addressed. We know that at the moment the basic method of financing is so-called. As in many European countries, as in England, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Sweden and Italy, only Poland and Spain apply only the capital rate. We want to change this and, after this pilot scheme, we want to introduce, in addition to the capitulation rate, the budget entrusted to ensure coordination of treatment, the task charge that will be aimed at prevention in the POZ, and the so-called. incentive allowance, i.e. for the health effect and quality of care. And the question was, what's the patient gonna get out of it, if he's gonna feel it all. I am deeply convinced that, indeed, after the introduction of this law, a patient who will go to the POZ will be comprehensively dealt with, i.e. will be scheduled for individual visits, for individual diagnostic tests, and it will not be so that he will only get a referral and will remain with the problem with which he has reported to the doctor of POZ. Mrs. Marshal, High Senate, the committee is asking for this law to be adopted without amendment. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u248	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Zdzisław Pupa. You're welcome. Mr. Chairman, please come to the stand.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u249	Senator rapporteur, you have pointed out that the bill will consist in improving the patient's satisfaction. I'd like to know what this patient's satisfaction is going to be more or less. Will it be because the patient won't have to wait in line? Do you think he'll be served tea or coffee? What is the patient's satisfaction? Because that's important, too. It is also important whether the conduct of POZ doctors will change or whether the capital charge will be applied properly. It is known that today the doctor gets a deposit rate on the patient and the POZ has to settle it. Whether it's a private doctor who has a private contract with the sick money, whether it's a private health care facility or it's a public ZOZ. And he's got to pay for the patient's treatment in some way. So far, doctors have been reluctant to direct the patient to tests that cost a lot of money. I'm not talking about morphology, but I'm talking about morphology. If you had to pay for your CT scans or anything else, you had to pay for it at that capitulation rate, and you had to pay for the patient's scans. And the situation was a little awkward, and it was awkward because the patients suffered from it. So that satisfaction was not really there. I hope that now this satisfaction will be that after the amendment of the bill there will be a better approach to the patient. I listened to the debate at the previous point when they talked about teachers, about education. Often the senators spoke, Senator rapporteur also, questions and statements concerning practical effectiveness in the assessment of the teacher, the efficiency of the teacher, were said about how the teacher was judged as his, well, you can say, the service for the upbringing of the young man. I would like to ask if this law introduces in some way an assessment of the effectiveness of the treatment by the doctor. Because it's also important that this assessment be. There are procedures... [[Mr. Senator, it's been a minute, please.]] ...related to a particular disease unit and it would be advisable, I think, to introduce such assessments of the effectiveness of the treatment. Does this law introduce such an assessment? Because the point is that we should be properly treated, and that we should also judge doctors in the context of the one that is good and tested, heals well, and who is poorly healed, so he should have fewer patients, or actually he should not be allowed to treat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u250	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Chairman. I ask you to answer me and to respond to this long speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u251	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Thank you, Senator, for that question. Maybe I'll start at the end. Indeed, the law provides for this. Art. 23 states that the Minister responsible for Health may, by means of a regulation, define criteria for monitoring the quality of basic healthcare benefits, taking into account the need to ensure the quality of these benefits. So the minister will issue a regulation that will show concretely how we can check the practice of a family doctor, whether it is effective or whether the actions taken by family doctors in this practice bring the intended benefits to the patient. Now, with regard to satisfaction, whether the patient will be satisfied or whether this bill will improve his satisfaction, his satisfaction that by applying to a given family doctor he will be better off, uglylyly, served, getting better health advice. Well, I think tea or beautiful walls are important, too, and I think that right now in POZ maybe not with tea... that the infrastructure of these buildings and equipment is at a high level. I also think the patient doesn't expect him to receive tea, but a good medical benefit. And that's what comes down to this coordinated care, when it's cooperation between the doctor of the POZ or the doctor of the family and the specialists to whom the doctor of the POZ will direct... The point is that this patient will already have an appointment and will know that the feedback about the diagnosis, the treatment, or the completion of the diagnostic process, will be sent from the specialist to the doctor of the POZ. I think it will provide comprehensive care for the patient, so that it is not so that the doctor of POZ has his clippings and the doctor has his clippings. What Mr. Senator said is that right now, POZ doctors are kind of saving up on diagnostics... in this pilot program, we want to check it out. A part of this budget, in addition to this capitulation rate, will be earmarked for a family doctor to have more money for diagnostics, so that the patient will be sent to a specialist's doctor not only with a referral, but with a certain set of tests that will help the doctor to undertake a proper diagnosis.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u252	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Mr President. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have with us today the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Zbigniew Król. Minister, do you wish to speak on the bill under consideration? You're welcome, Minister. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u253	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! High Izbo! It is with great satisfaction that I introduce this law to which an environment dealing mainly with basic health care, but not only, has been waiting for a quarter of a century. This satisfaction is not distorted by various kinds of comments and indications to the arrangements of the project itself, but also by the proposed content of the bill. The Act is the result of a compromise which takes into account most of these comments. The rapporteur presented the general outline. I would just like to say about some elements that bring about a change in the way of organising primary care, in this context of the health system in Poland, and highlight what has already been said. We build a model based on the POZ team, in which the doctor works in a manner consistent with the scope of these activities, the nurse works, the midwife works. These 3 people, 3 entities, these medical professionals have been chosen because they are concerned with patient declarations. The weight of this declaration is restored to what was in the 1990s. The declaration means I choose my doctor, I choose my nurse, women choose their midwife. The population, so to speak, of the practice in which this primary care team works, is the basis for the functioning of the POZ in Poland, is to constitute it, as it was said here, from 1 January 2025. Thanks to this element, which refers to this basic functioning, we finally have the opportunity to harmonise care across the country within the framework of primary care and we also have the possibility to harmonise the scope of the competences that basic healthcare covers. In the course of the legislative work, there have been many times questions about doctors who are currently working. And indeed, looking at how the system evolved in the 1990s and already at this age, we can say that it seems that we have not improved much, we have done in terms of what was decreed or planned in the early 1990s, when we made a decision on basic health care, which is aimed at family medicine. In preparing for today's meeting, I also found one such element that I would like to mention here. Namely, one of the meetings of the Senate Health Committee took place during the congress of family medicine, at which it was confirmed years ago, this choice of family medicine for our primary care system. The senators then listened to the debates concerning education, quality, scope of functioning, listening also to lectures of people from countries such as the UK, the Netherlands, because these guests were invited, clearly supported us in order for family medicine to germinate also in Poland. This process has been inhibited or inhibited. The trial wasn't finished, so to speak. Thanks to this law, we want to bring this change to an end so that at a time when family doctors can be greeted in such a number, it is possible to secure for every citizen of our country his own doctor, such as this patient's choice, a doctor who is professionally prepared for primary care, it can be done. The aim of the reform, as has been said here, is above all to introduce a model of patient-centred care and its health needs. And the health care team, taking care of the population of the declared people, working often for many years in a given place, is able to recognize these health needs much better than the funding institution than the care organisation. So this population, this medical plan for individuals on the list of patients, is the element that we want to point out as just assessing and satisfying health needs. The second element is also the matter for years, so to speak, discussed and judged as not fully realized in Poland, i.e. increasing the role of prevention and health education. Basic health care is this element in which public health falls within the scope of prevention, health promotion and meets executive medicine, this repair medicine, which a properly prepared doctor, nurse and midwife in the POZ are able to implement. But because of this population, which is taken care of, this list of subjects or patients, as we call it, it is possible to implement such a plan related to elements of prevention much more fully than at the moment. In addition, this prevention is targeted at precise interventions that have a health effect for patients on this list. The next point, which has already been given, is to coordinate and integrate treatment at different levels of healthcare under the motto of health economics, optimization of the treatment process. To put it simply, the point is that That's also what the senator emphasized. A patient who goes to a family doctor and for whom this family doctor, in his/her capacity to take care of him/her, will find that, however, he/she needs to be transferred to a different level of care, to specialist medicine. The patient receives a referral, but this visit does not end with the receipt of a referral. The aim is to ensure that this coordination is actually carried out in such a way that the specialist benefit is practically fixed at this level. This was also the case in our country. In 3 voivodships we had at the time of the introduction of the so-called sick registers. fundholding and such relationships between POZ and specialist in Poland were functioning. Sick banks did not continue this model, and the introduction of the NFZ de facto prevented its development by defining specific competences of the POZ, not particularly defined, for these last years. Finally, I will talk about the creation of a mechanism enabling the financial motivation of the providers to constantly raise both the level of services and the quality referred to in the senator's question. The quality of health care in the bill is changing in many places. There's even a special chapter about it. Satisfaction is one of the elements of quality assessment. Quality in healthcare in this classic definition is divided into three elements: structure, process and result. Satisfaction at this level is linked to the outcome of care. This is measured very differently. Humorously, Mr. Senator said about this tea, but it's not about tea in health care. Well, unless someone actually has pressure problems and while waiting for the test to be done properly, such a liquid was given to him for sedation, calming, not for any other purpose, e.g. with satisfaction. Satisfaction studies in primary care patients show that this is still the area of healthcare best perceived by patients, but only those who have their family doctors. This does not apply to many large cities, where the so-called system. District clinics, unfortunately, survived. There are no regional clinics there anymore, there are no districts, but we are dealing with a situation where we choose our doctor through registration and this doctor in principle throughout our entire lives we do not see. The system of options, different evaluation and evolution of the system, introduced to meet the expectations of the NFZ, caused quite strong distortions It is strong enough that we have prepared this law to this extent with great determination. Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, I kindly ask you to adopt this law in the form in which it was notified, without amendment. If I have any questions, of course, I will be available as long as I can answer them.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u254	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Grabowski, Senator Pup, Senator Rocki. Good. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u255	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, this question has already been addressed to the Senator of the rapporteur. As the senator who asked about it signaled, the senators' mailboxes were filled with e-mails about the article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 related to Article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the proposed act. I would like you to explain this, to answer our question and to speak in quite detail about the protection of patients' data, because, as I mentioned earlier, it arouses a very large interest of the recipients, i.e. patients, so to speak. There is concern about the introduction of these provisions, particularly as regards the provision of information to pharmaceutical operators, including to other health organisations and bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u256	Please, Senator Pup, Senator Grodzki, and then we'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u257	Dear Minister, I would like to ask you whether the surrender rates will vary depending on the patient's age, whether they will be constans, or whether the surrender rate will be the same regardless of whether the patient is young, older, middle-aged. We are talking about the level of satisfaction, about measuring the level of satisfaction. Well, I'd like to, when I go to the doctor of POZ, not feel like the person who's asking for something. When I have to ask the doctor to order an additional examination, because I think I need this examination, then I feel awkward because it feels like I'm losing the income of the doctor. I'd like it to be a little different. I wish the doctor didn't have to look at me as a patient who's pulling his money out of his salary or his income, because it's really not a very nice situation. I'm gonna go see a doctor. I'm gonna ask him for a test. A computer scanner or an X-ray scan or an ultrasound scan... He's covering it with a capital charge. It seems to me that it would be a good idea to determine the wages of a P.O.O. doctor at a level rational for his education, his skills. It is also important to evaluate the effectiveness of the treatment, because then it is known that this doctor deserves the right money for a proper, fair job. Doctors are highly educated and highly qualified, and I believe that doctors should be properly paid, but we must also pay attention to the fact that this is also a kind of business. You have to keep that in mind, you have to let doctors do this business: that's how they work and do this job, they have to earn decent money. I think that if we don't look at the profession of a doctor, doing medical services like this, we're still gonna have a problem. This business will still be misplaced and the patient will have no satisfaction with proper treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u258	Thank you very much. Senator Grodzki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u259	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I have three questions. First. Would you like to determine what order of money will be provided after piloting these 3 extras, that is, In addition to the capital, for this motivational, co-ordination and one more? Two. What is the anticipated scale of this piloting? How many family doctors' offices are going to be included in this? And a third. What motivated you to...In 2024 the internists will be banned from opening the practice of a family doctor, while they will still be able to do this to general medicine specialists, a specialty that has not existed for several years now? I would ask you to answer these three questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u260	You're welcome, Minister, to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u261	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. One at a time. Personal data actually... I don't know the contents of your mailboxes, but I just... [[300 e-mails.]] 300 e-mails. I think it turned out yesterday that it was the one person who prepared this kind of action. This is how she presented herself at the Health Committee meeting. Now I understand why these subjects were discussed so intensively in the Seym. To be honest, the bill we are preparing relates to three basic elements relating to the protection of patients' personal data, to the protection of medical records. An additional element is that of this person or those persons, because she could not send these e-mails herself. As it was presented, this is an association or the foundation of the stop NOP. I don't know exactly, but these are... well, it's hard to say they're our opponents, but they're anti-vaccines. Yes? This truth about this data is the same truth as the fact that vaccines cause autism. To answer unambiguously, I simply prepared a text on matters related to this data. I did it so I wouldn't raise any doubts about your senators here. As regards the availability of data, the Act on the Rights of the Patient and the Ombudsperson on the Rights of the Patient lays down rules for the provision of medical records. It also specifies a closed catalogue of subjects to whom medical records may be made available. It is mentioned in the article. 26. Sharing health data to insurance companies... 'Cause there were these elements. At least from what I was asked, that's what it was. It suggests we're going to promote something here. The health care provider shall make the medical records available to insurance undertakings only with the consent of the patient. There's no way anybody's doing this any other way. - I'm sorry, I'm sorry. - I'm sorry. - I'm sorry. Article 26 (2) (b) 3 point 7 of the Act on the Rights of the Patient and the Ombudsperson of the Rights of the Patient. The application of the insured person's health information, the scope of which is determined by that law, shall require the written consent of the insured person or of the person to whom the insurance contract is to be concluded or of his or her statutory representative. Article 38 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 Act on Insurance and Insurance Activities. The inclusion of these representatives of health organisations and institutions is due to previous regulations in the area of POZ. The regulation on the scope of tasks of POZ doctor, POZ nurse and midwife, both from 2005 and 2016, covers institutions such as family assistance centres, individuals competent in the field of prevention of addiction, family violence, mental health and patient organisations. The information provided will not contain personal data, including sensitive data. Information is needed in these institutions. I was talking about that example yesterday. If the child's balance sheet is carried out at school, then information about this balance sheet, about the fact that it was carried out, or the result thereof, should be sent to the POZ in order not to perform the tests twice. At the moment, we are dealing with a situation of this type that operators working independently in the area of POZ, i.e. a nurse and a doctor, carry out these balances twice. They often differ in results, but generally they do not know about these differences. That is the idea of these changes. Besides, the Act, which has already been adopted here in the Senate, the Act on Pilots, also talks about sending information, e.g. between social assistance and this medical part. If a patient, especially a mental patient, goes to social services, then basically the health care system doesn't know anything about him. We simply want to regulate these issues. Under no circumstances is it possible to access medical records, because this is guaranteed by the laws I quoted here. The surrender is varied at the moment. We have an average of PLN 144 and depending on age... These scales stay, we don't change anything here. This rate is considered by us to be the base. These age differences have also worked out, as it can be said that doctors who have more children on their list must also perform more specific benefits. If there are more adults, elderly people who require specific studies, this rate is also higher. Whether 144 PLN is little or much, we can discuss a lot. Are we dealing with a situation that can't be tested for this? Well, we think it's possible, because at the moment a catalogue of laboratory tests from the so-called. the Basket Regulation contains a fairly wide range of these benefits. All the doctors know that. Do patients know about this? It's very different. I know of practices where you can actually get all of these studies, of course, at a time when the health situation requires it. As part of our piloting, we want to expand this catalogue, because we see such a situation that the focus on preventive research, e.g. in the direction of early detection of colorectal cancer, should be carried out more efficiently and this should be done by doctors who in their population have people of age suitable for carrying out such screening tests. I don't want to read that list from the regulation because it's quite extensive, but if the senator's interested, I can leave it. This is something that we all deserve, it's not like we're negotiating with this doctor in some way, whether we can do it or not. I want to make it clear that the doctor is not only well educated, but also a professional in his profession and if he feels that these tests are not necessary And here's some form of negotiation that should justify it. If I get up in the morning, my head hurts, and I think I should get a C.T. scan... After talking to this doctor, I should be informed about the study At the moment, unrefundable under this referral, i.e. it does not burden the family doctor's budget... And that's the element we want to change. Senator Kraska talked about the fact that there will be 3 additional mechanisms, one of which is particularly focused on extending diagnosis and consultation. It's about the task budget. He was tested in Poland at those three cashiers I was talking about. We called it fundholding, that's the word we took from the British system. The doctors actually paid for the extended diagnostic services, and what was very interesting at that time was the fact that within this budget, especially in small towns, they invited specialists to select groups of patients on a certain day, paying specific amounts for consultation of these patients. If this were to happen in 2025, the queues to these specialists, I think, would definitely shorten. They will be reduced by now, if we introduce these mechanisms for broadening competence in the case of a family doctor, so we expect. As for business, it's the practice of a family doctor actually it's business. In the 1990's, we trained family doctors to establish their practices. They had a list, they had a budget. I think that part of the reform was successful, and we succeeded because there is no debt in POZ. All those battalions, all those strikes... During these protests of young doctors, residents, fortunately already completed, I had this three-hour meeting with doctors who are educated in family medicine. One of these people talked about his life as a young boy of 12 or 13 years old when his parents started this kind of practice. From that moment on, he hasn't had Christmas since he was 12. These parents' New Year's Eve was usually that they were either at the cash register or at the NFZ in negotiations. Christmas holidays were also often eliminated, so to speak. We want to change these situations with this bill. Such things, thank God, have been gone for at least 2 or 3 years, but... This law also wants to change the financial situation, so that financial elements are agreed definitely earlier and that there is no constant pressure, at this moment every six months, due to the increase in wages. As for this business, it's part of the business that we're in violation of, of course, because if we look at the system as a population of subjects, They're not always patients. And the teams built on it, for declarations to a particular person, i.e. doctor, nurse and midwife... This doctor, this nurse and this midwife, when they accept this declaration, are obliged to carry out such care. So, as I'm going to say, the clinic model that occurs in some large cities or in some towns is being violated as much as possible. About the scale I'm addressing Senator Grodzki here. The financials of these additional elements, that's us after piloting... Pilotage is a bit of an element, so to speak, presented by various institutions... Because the pilot programme is run by the NFZ. He's supposed to start early next year. Here this bill is not, so to speak, an element of this piloting, but she definitely expects results, so to speak. Here, these results that we want to achieve will certainly influence how we will expand this range of benefits, how we will construct the budget entrusted in 2020 and this is about 2 years from now, then the results will be piloted and from that moment on we want to launch an extended range of benefits so that the system in Poland can withstand. Means not only the executive system, i.e. doctors and POZ teams, but also the financial system. For this purpose, we do not have the concrete measures provided at the moment, because the results of the pilotage are not yet available. They will be analysed on a quarterly basis. So from the start, we'll be definitely richer in information. The NFZ currently points out that, due to the above-mentioned support from EU funds, it is able to launch up to 45 practices at the first stage. We want to expand it, in the ministry, we think it should be more. In the second stage, the NFZ wants to launch piloting in an area where, in addition to such individual or group practices of family doctors, there will be practices in which specialists will work. So the scope of specialized services will be extended. The NFZ project will probably not be ready until mid-year. So that here this information on specific quotas will, I hope, be enough that we will be able to prepare solutions that will not interfere with the system. But I'm not gonna answer the question of how much it's gonna be. However, I am absolutely convinced that we need to add money to this budget entrusted in defined categories. I made a percentage deal last night, but I don't want to repeat it, so... it just has to be more money, it's absolutely impossible for us to take something off the stakes. As for these other forms, i.e. the task budget, he is currently basically in the scope of the NFZ. The NF is still to be used for prevention studies of around 1.5%. Do we have a system in POZ right now, or are we going to have a system ready from 1 January 2018 to use these funds? Yeah, probably not. But these are the money that is currently in the system, and they are being transferred, moved to different categories, because they are most often not used. We also have a whole series here. It's almost as if the result of a single practice A whole range of preventive programmes implemented by local authorities. And I hope that here, competent doctors, competent teams will run these programs in such a way that they actually work. And the latter element, relating to the incentive rate, will only be created, in line with this regulation, which refers to a network of hospitals where accredited hospitals receive, if they obtain a certain number of accreditation points, a certain amount, that is the percentage of the contract. And we will want to put a similar mechanism here, in this area, on these accredited practices. As I recall, in hospitals, a practice that gets 80 points... you have to have 75% to get accreditation. These points, accreditation standards. If it has an accreditation certificate, it receives 1%; the higher rating scale gives more points. This is the first element, right now he's almost ready. A large group of POZ practices will be visited again this year and we want to prepare a similar regulation for accredited practices. The other programmes, the quality programmes, are still in a position, so to speak, in literature; they are not programmes that we can implement at the moment. We want to take advantage of the expert experience of the Institute of Rural Medicine, which will definitely work more for family medicine. This is where we want to concentrate quality issues, education, education. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u262	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Stanisławek and then Senator Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u263	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, we have discussed the role of environmental nurse and the ability to control the quality of treatment. I was satisfied with the Minister's explanations, but then I thought of a completely different idea about how to use certain possibilities during the piloting process. Tell me if I'm not enrolled in any POZ, what is the possibility... Can you come to POZ, get advice but not sign up for it? It's about control... I want to see if the recorder is smiling, if it's clean, what standards are there and then go to another POZ. Suppose I have high blood pressure every two or three months... What kind of checks does your doctor order? Because once there's co-ordinated care, I'd like to pick a POZ that suits me best. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u264	Just a moment, Minister. Senator Czarnobaj... Do you still want to ask Senator Pup? No. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u265	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Sorry, I didn't ask that at the committee meeting. I do not remember if the Minister was present when the functioning coordinated care in Siedlce was presented. You were Minister? If that's the case, would you mind saying two sentences about it? Do you like it if it's a model like... How does the Minister feel about that? In what direction should we go? How is the coordinated care model compared to the one that operates today?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u266	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Pup. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u267	Minister, in his speech, the rapporteur, President of Kraska, noted, if I understood correctly, that 90% Patient care... With regard to the effectiveness of treatment in the West, 90% can be said he's in charge of basic health care, which is a family doctor. I would like to ask what prevention will be like after the implementation of this law. How do you see the issue of developing prevention in order to reach those standards that Senator Kraska was talking about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u268	I forgot one question from Senator Grodzki. It's about the internists. This is an important topic. Excuse me, I have it on my list, but I just missed it. Ladies and gentlemen, we're not eliminating anyone. A practice may also be established by a person who does not pursue a medical profession. As far as patient declarations are concerned, the person who is a family doctor has the opportunity to collect them in 2025. General doctors, as we count, will no longer be many, because it is indeed a specialization in which training was completed in 1992 or 1993. In 2025, all those who have acquired the power to collect declarations before 1 January will retain these rights. So that to heighten there are these fears of different, so to speak, elimination, etc. The doctors who want to work at the POZ want to work for hours. We will probably have such people, even for a replacement, even for additional activities, for example for a period of time. influenza epidemics, when in open medicine, especially in POZ, there is indeed a lot of work. Expanding the question of whether perhaps it was this idea, why we don't want a declaration, we don't want them to have that right... Well, the answer to that is pretty simple. In 1992, in the building of this parliament, we decided that we wanted to have family medicine within the framework of the POZ. For 25 years to this day, this system has been happening to us, so to speak, not pretending, because we always do some sort of dye, remodeling and something else. Ten years ago, Minister Religa, who did not have time to make the Act on POZ and wanted to, I know that because then I worked with the professor, although in another place he prepared a regulation indicating the qualifications that should be in POZ. And this is the element that was also raised here, i.e. The fact that these doctors were 10 years old to acquire authority is to start training in family medicine. Ten years. The deadline is this year. So that's also the element that's being lifted. But now with great determination we want this system, first of all, to sort things out, and second of all, to definitely standardize, so that in every place of our country, this is what we want: when I declare myself to a particular doctor... So that things don't go the way they are right now... I have here a list of doctors with specific specialties who collect declarations because they have the right. There you go, nuclear medicine: 6... 7... 8 doctors; pathomorphologists, this is the paraphrase of the doctor of first contact. There are also dozens; there are ophthalmologists, epidemiologists, laboratory diagnostic specialists, nuclear medicine specialists. These are very important specialties, people with these professions are definitely performing important functions, but are they people who should... Will we receive the same care as the care of a professionally prepared family doctor when we declare to them? To answer that question, yes... In the government, we have accepted that, so to speak, the choice presented and such references. Even when it comes to choosing a doctor... In the West, where the choice really fell on this element, on family medicine, there are quite a lot of studies on eliminating what we call doctor shopping. So the point is not to motivate patients to check individual solutions in individual doctors. That probably doesn't exactly match what the senator said, because it's a situation like this, an approach that we don't choose, because every choice, every medical intervention, every one of these contacts is about as good as bad. We already know that medical advice is also medical technology and can bring both harm and benefit. In the United States, a large group of measures is described as prevention of overdiagnosis and overtreatment, which is to prevent excessive diagnosis and excessive treatment, because the teratogenic effects of drugs... We among the professionals will now nod our heads, because there is nothing special to arouse around this some cheap, I think, sensational, but these are things that... I mean, we're more concerned with the idea of generating or raising trust in a doctor, or maybe returning to a situation where there's trust in a doctor than to create something like this marketing that we're looking for, and I'm sorry to bring it up. This tea or a better hairy doctor. I'm just saying that we shouldn't cause such competitive marketing here. I've seen the presentation from Siedlce. This is a model of a very, very well functioning open medicine facility. If we saw this model in 1992, in the 1990s, we'd probably go in that direction all over the country. He's based on professionally prepared managers that we don't have in the country on the scale we need. I think there'll be more models like this in the country. We have these solutions. They will, of course, function. These are places where... The family doctor presented a part about his care. That's exactly what we're talking about: so that a doctor who has, so to speak, his population can analyze This is also a response to prevention. What preventive measures to choose for this population. There's a lot here, a lot to say. I can bore you with these arguments and tell you how to prepare medical plans for the list of patients, as doctors do, also in Poland. We have a lot of examples like that. With regard to 90% I'll tell you that's the result of statistics. If we look at the number of contacts with the system, mostly in the West With us it is slightly modified by another way of financing specialized care... As much as 90% of contacts with the system take place in primary care doctors and primary care nurses, including the team. We want to bring about a similar situation with regard to these contacts by changing the financing mechanism. I was talking about it in the Seym. There were no questions here, and there was no chance that at the Senate Health Committee... If we look at the number of benefits provided by endocrinologists, it turns out that in some places queues are, so to speak, annual, and if we look at the scope of these benefits and the activities performed, we will see that they most often fall within the scope of primary health care. Hypothyroidism isn't... driving a patient like this isn't something that needs an endocrinologist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u269	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I'd like to speak with Senator Tomasz Grodzki. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u270	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The POZ Act actually has a very long history, but, as thinker Margit Sandemo says, oblivion is a good fairy, mercifully casts a shroud of oblivion on human thoughts and actions. On the one hand, we should be glad that after twenty years this law has a final shape, and on the other hand, we should have a reflection on why it has not been adopted by the governments over the next 25 years. Not everything can be blamed on the complexity of matter. At the moment, a final product was created, which in its assumptions sounds promising, but in detail, which results from the questions asked here, unfortunately it is not perfect or, you might say, is far from perfect. First of all, we do not know what money will be spent on capital add-ons and piloting, which will be carried out in this matter. I don't want to go back to the issue of personal data protection, which, in a sense, dominated the Parliamentary deliberations. But I'm gonna be asking for internists who to some extent are the kings of medicine. Interna is knowledge far beyond the detailed knowledge of many medical specializations and the decision to take the right to receive the declaration of belonging after 2024 seems arbitrary and unfair. Question: How do you get to all the family doctors' offices? You're gonna take the midwives? Family doctors picked it up. According to various estimates of this number of nurses, midwives do not exist, and after the last spots of the Ministry of Rabbits it seems that these midwives will need more. This may be half a joke, half a joke, but I'm afraid the number of midwives won't allow enough teams made up of doctors, nurses and midwives. One of the signs of an imminent nervous breakdown is that we are doing an extremely important job. That's what Bertrand Russell said. We have the impression that we have done important work, only that it will probably be less useful than we think. Especially since today, just today, the Sejm has taken away the opportunity to make this law better, namely, it has taken away our fuel in the form of money: almost 1 billion on public television, called propaganda tube, rejecting the amendments of many opposition clubs about speeding up the process of increasing expenditure on health protection, writing it down until 2025, when probably many of us will no longer remember the history of Polish politics. We could have gotten better financial supplies even for this bill, but today it was the Sejm's vote of Law and Justice that decided to lose it. Imagine... You can tell long stories about the fact that there are great family doctors who, without the bill, perfectly coordinate the care of patients who do excellent work in different places in Poland. There are also doctors, not just family members, who are poor, who generally focus on the issue of referrals. The army of more than 100,000 Polish doctors, like any large community, is diverse. But without extra money, health care, which was proved by young doctors resident, crackles. She needs urgent financial injections at the same time as changing the system. Only then does it make sense. Without the money, it's not gonna work. I remember that in the hospital in Kowara, where I practiced as a young intern, there was a very dramatic financial situation, there was nothing. This isn't a joke. The chief doctor at the time of the visit, when the patient said that he would need it, he would need it, he would say, you know, we don't have it, we don't have it, but I have a bottle here, we'll drink to your health together. That was 30 years ago, and the patients were buying it. He had nothing else, they drank together to health, but in the end, this chief was a drunk, he was an alcoholic. If we want this shape of health care, and modern medicine, whether we like it or not, it's getting more expensive... We must remember that even the best in intentions, because no longer in detail, laws will give us little. That is why I must inform the High House that we will vote against this law in this form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u271	Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u272	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister, as I said at the committee meeting, always in the debate, whether it's educational, as before, or about health care... Well, it is important that in such a debate people who are not doctors say a few words so that it is not a meeting of the trade unions of doctors and nurses, i.e. people working in health care, but also those who are concerned, and which you asked Senator Pup about in the debate. Let me put it this way, Minister... [[Talking in the O.R.]] The Minister won't hear, because Senator Pupa over there... [[He hears, he hears.]] [[He's got a lot of attention.]] [[Mr. Senator takes care of...]] Yeah, he's gonna, uh... uh, today, you're gonna be accepted out of order. Minister, I did not say this at the committee meeting, leaving for myself these few words addressed to you today as the person in charge of this, which you said to the President, one of the most important areas of health protection. The well-functioning health protection of first contact, as it is said, is a good opinion about the Polish health system. The methods mentioned by Professor Grodzki used to be used: once there was nothing left to do, they at least drank and had a good health assessment. But these days, thank God, especially for patients, have passed. The Polish patient wants to answer his question today, whether he is being treated correctly or not. Without going into the super-details, I will say this: Minister, that this important department of health care should function well, just as at least 4 pillars are needed in every management. If we're talking about a patient, the patient needs to be armed with instruments to answer the question of whether he's being treated well or not, whether he's using various types of prevention programs. And it was shown by those people operating there in those... Well, I was, in short, enchanted by this presentation showing in the benchmarking system that each of these patients can answer to themselves, what are the programs, what they give results, etc., etc. So if we don't run such scientific methods that suggest to the patient how we're being treated, we'll always be doomed to be judged: I like it. I don't like the good artistic impression, which is the quality of whatever, but the impression Artistic Ten. And they showed how fantastic they really do, how this patient responds on the basis of information, what kind of service is in this company. Finance. You just can't do it without money. And throwing various kinds of money streams into the system is a certain patching of the hole, but you have to think about some solution when it comes to the basic health care system as a target element. And if we now have such a good economic situation, such a good budgetary position, then we must, Minister, fight at a government meeting. 'Cause if not now, when? The next wave, if we believe that economic growth changes like a sineoid... I don't know, a year, two, three years we'll be at the top of this wave, and in a moment we'll have to go through seven years of skinny in Poland. Therefore, we need to build a target system right now... [[It's already been done. It's been eight years.]] ...when there's economic growth. An important element is the matter of staff. The Minister was quoting the data today. That's not gonna happen in a year. For 25 years, different changes have taken place, but a system for selection of staff in such an important area as basic health care is one of the foundations. And the measureability of the effect, which is what I was talking about, benchmarking, but also other elements. And if we don't build a whole system... Because sometimes people who manage a certain area think that if they take one brick out of this structure and change it, they'll change the system. No. We need to build a whole system. And the draft law absolutely does not contain such a target model related to basic health care. I urge you, Minister, to take the courage of simple action. There are several examples in Poland, as it turns out, that people have built a fantastic model for coordinated healthcare for 10 or 15 years, which is what the Minister said about these assumptions. And you just have to take it, promote and spread it, and prepare finance, staff, organization, etc., etc. Then we'll cut the road short. In short, it's about a model like this. Whoever is in power, the left or the right, or whoever else is in the discussion. And to do so, Minister, I encourage you. This bill is a patching of certain rifts, which, of course, will help or not, I am not inclined to evaluate here, but about comprehensive, targeted solutions... In my view, she does not solve any of the problems, even the opposite, so I encourage you to do what I said at the outset. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u273	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u274	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I did not participate in the debate, but inspired by the speeches of my previous speakers, I would like to speak and may ask more questions than make statements here. Well, health care has been screaming for more and more money for many years. More and more money, more and more we have to contribute to the implementation of health care tasks. It may make sense, but do we actually verify the cost of this system? He's built... He, according to various reports, The public disclosure law will probably provide more information when it is adopted. It is very expensive and burdened with a significant corporate pension. We're dealing with a system that's like an old furnace, where we're supposed to put billions of zlotys and even tens of billions. But are we actually checking whether this furnace is properly regulated? I know a story I'd like to mention. A story that allows me to suspect that there are in our treatment procedures, because this is the most important, most important part of the cost. . excessive cost surpluses. I know a case of treatment that cost our health care 175 thousand PLN, and the effectiveness of this treatment is that 58% patients return, has a recurrence I'm talking about oncology. The budget of the NFZ continues to be charged. In the case of the same disease treated in Germany, treatment costs 36 thousand PLN and the effectiveness of this treatment is that only 2% patients have a recurrence. So I would like to ask... nothing, including this efficiency, is possible to evaluate without comparison, so I would like to ask if we are comparing medical procedures, treatment, also the cost of these procedures with procedures or with treatment in a country close to us, in terms of... Yeah, I'm talking here, for example. about Germany. Does the Ministry or the NFZ compare the cost of treating the disease in Germany and Poland, assuming that if Poles, like the Germans, eat pork, cabbage and drink beer, they fall into similar disease units? We also live in similar climates, so maybe we fall into similar diseases. This comparison of procedures would allow us to determine whether the measures we spend are spent properly and whether we We don't accidentally burn out taxpayers' money. This comparison, of course, must be passed. also through economic indicators. It is obvious that in Poland people earn less than in Germany, but the costs of pharmaceuticals, the question of multiple use of these pharmaceuticals are probably easy to compare. The Ministry of Health has an institute that could do this kind of work. We would then be sure that the money, the ever-increasing money that, under the demands of those who are rewarded, we are going to spend on... We would be sure that this money is adequate to the needs and that we are spending it with respect to taxpayers. I would like to appeal to the Minister to carry out such a study in order to carry out such an audit as to assess the correctness of the evaluation of the treatment procedures. The media reports the customs of medical specialists who have an impact on the development of treatment procedures. They report their relationship with pharmaceutical companies, the scale of the corruption pension that exists in this sector. It is high time to audit procedures, and the easiest way to do this is to compare our procedures with procedures from a country not far from the Republic of Poland. That is what I would like to appeal to the Minister. Unfortunately, as I can see, I've created a longer list of speakers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u275	Thank you very much. Senator Andrzej Stanisławek. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u276	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Indeed, Senator Bierecki has called on other senators to discuss. I hear there's a hole in the bag, which is health care... I'd like to give you an example, let's call it the Stumpy Health Service that the previous ruling crew set up. An example of this is Lublin, where four hospitals are expanding: the MMA hospital, the military hospital, the oncology center, the local government hospital, and the clinical hospital. Soon we will have the largest number of beds in Poland, because it is difficult to stop these expansions, for which the money was granted 3 years ago. Now we're building, so you can say that... Where's the money going? They're not going to health care, they're not going to the patient, they're going to the infrastructure with which you're not going to know what to do. I must remind the High House that it was only in the spring of 2016 that the IOWISZ system, i.e. the monitoring system by the voivodship of the validity of building clinics, hospitals, entered into force. Since then, we have control over how much clinics and hospitals will be created, but those units that are under construction, unfortunately, are a hole in this bag that makes the money run away. Many issues have been raised here regarding medical procedures and medical costs. I would just like to say that the medical costs for the materials used are identical in Poland, Germany and the United States because they are the same systems. General Electric or Siemens works here and General Electric or Siemens works there, i.e. the cost of buying and operating this system for treatment is the same. We can only save on labor costs, that's all. When it comes to the quality of treatment and the standards of treatment, that is the problem. We discussed this with the Minister at the Health Committee meeting, and we agreed that this piloting was for this purpose. I'm very grateful to the Ministry for this. I want us to have time to... We have time when we adjust, we will introduce control bodies that will reward these branches, hospitals, POZs that provide services at the appropriate level, services that make the patient return to work faster. Getting the health effect is the patient's return to work with the possibility of making money and enjoying life. The problem of prevention was raised here. I'd like to give you some numbers that may be shocking. We still need to educate citizens who will be patients and want some advice. We have to educate them from primary school or maybe even kindergarten. We need to teach citizens what it is to be responsible for their own health and tell them what symptoms they will discover are the basis for their visit. Now I'm giving an example, kind of the opposite. We have a very good breast cancer prevention program for women aged 50 and 69 years. I ask this question: what percentage of women are asked to see a doctor after receiving an invitation to be examined? [[30%.]] [[50%.]] Yes. Depending on the voivodship it is from 30% to 50%. [[Thirty-five is a good score.]] No, no. There are different data in different voivodships, that's a small thing. That's the extent of irresponsibleness. Yet such a small paradigm in terms of the quality of treatment. There's a disease like melanoma. Depending on the thickness of the melanoma is an indication for the biopsy of the guard nodes or it is not present. And I must tell you that this standard has changed several times over the last few years. Almost every year there's a different standard. Once it was 0.7 mm, then it was 0.9 mm, then it was 1 mm. Now we're back to 0.7 again. And it's not like medicine doesn't keep up. Medicine keeps up, but knowledge changes extremely quickly. I think this bill... Minister, I'm leaning my forehead here because it's there at all. It's true she's been gone for 20 years. Now we may have different reservations about the bill, but she is. Piloting allows us to capture certain things that are weak, and to standardize those that are to benefit to us, to the citizens. Let's not look at doctors, at how much they make. Doctors make money depending on how much they work. I don't want to talk about earnings at all, because it's very misunderstood. I mean, the benefit to the patient. If there is a benefit to the patient from this bill after piloting, it will benefit all of us and we will cooperate with the Minister in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u277	Thank you very much. You're welcome. Senator, Dr. Dorota Czudowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u278	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Of course, I'm in favour of this bill, even though I'm a specialist doctor. As a specialist doctor, I may not be able to see the full operation of the bill, because 2025 is a little distant time for a doctor with gray hair, but I am glad to think that doctors will be lighter. The law on health care facilities, about POZ, which was created, as the Minister said, almost a few decades ago, founded a healthy system of pyramids in health care. The foundation of this pyramid was and is intended to create basic health care. I will also admit, as a specialist, that in the last several years through the wrong setting of the accounting of specialists, specialists must work on the chord, on points The pyramid's a little wobbly. Specialist has grown and it hasn't gone in the right direction. But what do I mean by the benefits for doctors of specialists under this law? Of course, the charges that the opposing party puts forward here are so far away... Well, it must also be correlated with plans that are promising, namely that GDP will grow to twenty-five years old... that the resources allocated to health care will rise to 6%. GDP. Without denying the need to check the procedures referred to by Senator Bierecki, there is indeed a need to check such procedures in many cases, and I would like to say that, however, this money is going to be more and more and can be intended for POZ. But I hope that in this budget there will be money for some diagnostic tests, which are now not in the competence of first contact doctors, maybe not all of them... Let me just give you an example in my line of work. Why does a patient come to a specialist without any test results? The patient's chest hurts and... Half of my practice is that I'm giving an ultrasound or a mammogram that might as well give a doctor first contact, and you still have to pay the lab to do that. If you find abnormalities, you will see an oncologist. Well, there is an example of excessive referrals to endocrinologists for various other health-related laws. When I started working as a doctor, even with the first degree of specialization, we were all treating hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism. These are very grateful diseases in treatment, just like food deficiency anemia, iron... Now they all need to be treated with hematologists, and we've been treating them all effectively, straight and cheaply. So if the doctor of the first contact has a separate, determined amount of money that he will be able to use for research to a specialist, then in the case of at least half of the patients who today are directed to a specialist, already at the level of the doctor of POZ will be solved that they do not really need this specialist. And I think by putting together this prevention program for POZ teams... I hope, Minister, that there will be one, if there is no other option, a billing order, because if I were a doctor of the POZ and I know that many doctors have the desire to do so, some do. Without warrants, I'd like every patient to have a cytology, a mammogram taken in time. I'm not talking about mammography anymore, about the preventive examination of breasts of women outside the age of screening, which is 50.69 years old; experts know what I'm talking about. But even for such free tests available already in most cities first-contact doctors do not direct their patients, and this should be a point of honor for every patient who has an optimized to me to have at their own time, especially since these tests are not performed every month, carried out preventive colon tests, preventive breast examination, preventive cytology for the detection of cervical cancer. And in this bill, I see an opportunity like this, which is why... Like I said, maybe I won't see things so beautiful in my job anymore, but I believe it will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u279	Thank you very much. Senator Grodzki. You're welcome. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u280	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! It's only in the Senate that Senator Bierecki looks critically and I'll come to defend the ministry. Mr. Senator, the case you told me about is known to me, but by medical discretion, we are obviously not going to develop this thread. However, I must disappoint your senator because I know the data on my specialties, which are chest surgery and lung transplantology. Unfortunately, bills issued for foreign treatment of Poles who benefit from care, whether in Germany or in other countries, are usually about four times higher than the amounts we receive from NFZ in Poland. I'm not just talking about Germany, I'm talking about the Hungarian nephews. In Budapest a Pole was operated, notabene from Gdansk, who could be operated quietly in Poland for the amount of about 32 thousand PLN, because this is how the NFZ reimburses it, while Budapest billed 46 thousand EUR. Yeah, for identical surgery. Differences are even more confusing if we consider chemotherapy or radiotherapy, especially chemotherapy, which is far more expensive than proper surgical treatment, although it is which, as we know, most cancers are most likely to be affected, while the rest is treatment. With all due respect for chemo- and radiotherapists Only controlling the disease. I have to worry you, Mr. Senator, because for twenty years, the sick bank, the NFZ and subsequent governments, we've actually gained quantitative control of what we're doing, but in terms of quality control, there's basically a race tabula. That's a fact. There used to be a project to hire retired doctors at the NFZ to look at the history of diseases in terms of quality. Because as for how quantitatively it is, we know because we know how many procedures are being carried out. And it would cost a penny, but then the government. I don't even remember which one it was anymore. He didn't agree to that. And since we both like to rely on facts, unfortunately, we also have to say that the financial expenditures measured either by the percentage of GDP allocated to health, or by the percentage of hard dollar or euro quotas allocated to the health of one citizen They are still significantly lower in Poland than in Germany or even in the Czech Republic. And that's why I'm so sorry that today, in good economic times, I'm already abstracting from the country's debt and what a fellow senator certainly knows far better than I do. We do not use this situation to finally take good care of health. In fact, in our country, we are still being persecuted by Gomulak's doctrine, assuming that the doctor will always manage, and that the doctor's patient will find a way to deal with it. Well, if we continue this way in the 21st century, we will indeed stand over the abyss, as Gomulka said, although since his time We've taken a big step forward. [[Voice from the room: And we will.]] And we will. However, one claim must be accepted. I totally agree with him, Mr. Senator. That if we put the money in without changing the system... We're not talking about benchmarking, quality, control, efficiency, and I don't want to develop it for five minutes. So if we put the money in without changing anything, then we will indeed have a sin of omission on our conscience. If we put the money in, at the same time systematically and intensively working on changing it quite archaic, it must be said, the system, then we will go into history as a generation of those who have finally done something decent for the health of Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u281	Thank you very much. President Waldemar Kraska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u282	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I think it's time to sum up this debate today. I would like to thank you for the fact that we are talking mainly in substance and less politically, because we are in Parliament, in the Senate, but if we are talking about health care, then the substantive discussions are most welcome and I think they are the merit of our meeting today as regards this bill. As doctors, we know that basic health care is the foundation on which the rest of health care is built. The fact that the POZ will work well will feel instantly, that patients e.g. There will be much less on hospital emergency units. We know what's going on in these units, on the so-called. SORs, when there are a lot of patients, because they don't go to the family doctor. If care at POZ is much better, those patients won't be there. It is similar in the case of an ambulance. We know that the emergency room is leaving several times to do things that it shouldn't be going to, because there's no family doctor or his care is inadequate, and the patient has some kind of health problem. Sometimes this problem does not involve putting the patient's life at risk, but he calls an ambulance, an ambulance goes and at that time may not help other people who really need this help. The third element is hospitals. We know that often a patient who goes to hospital requires only an extended diagnosis, which means he is a much more expensive patient than he would be if we took care of him in an outpatient manner, because some research should be done as part of a family doctor's practice. And it is in this law that we want to do this, and it is particularly important that this pilot programme is to start, and within two years we are going to see how it will work in practice. I will also refer to the voice of Senator Bierecki, an excellent financier. Surely this example, which he gave, is that in Germany the case was treated much cheaper and also more effectively... I can turn it around and say that in Poland it is often cheaper and comparablely effective when compared to the Western countries. It is certainly important to have the quality and control of whether the money spent on a given procedure translates into the quality and outcome of the patient's treatment. I think that healthcare is such an area around the world that if we didn't put the money in there, the money will be, to put it uglylyly, converted by this system, and the effects for the patient will often be gone. Indeed, before this law was included in the Committee's work, we had a study meeting during which family doctors provided information, it was a practice from Siedlce, about how they had been conducting this patient-coordinated care for many years and they were doing it well. I think that this example, the fact that this can be done, and certain aspects of their experience will be used in this pilot programme. This will show that, however, a family doctor can be friendly, can be professional, and at the same time replace and perform several times whether it's an S.R. or an ambulance or a hospital in this basic diagnostic that he can perform. Because we're in the Senate, we're politicians... I think this bill, which, after all these years, has come in... We're talking about money, about how we should give more now. Well, in the last eight years, we haven't seen the money for health care, we haven't seen it flow this wide. I am convinced and I believe that this will change and patients, because we are talking mainly about patients, this good change will eventually feel. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u283	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we proceed with the examination of the 13th... Minister, thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals. The text of the Act is contained in print No 630 and the report of the committee In print No 630 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u284	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the 100th meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, which took place on 8 November. The committee's report is contained in print No 630 A. The Commission recommends that the High House adopt a law without amendments. The Commission has discussed very closely with many stakeholders the proposed legislation. We've heard a lot of arguments. It's a very broad bill. The Minister, by referring to the scope of this law, will certainly indicate the blocks of changes that the law brings. The purpose of this law is to seal the tax system, to eliminate tax gaps that have been used by different entities in recent years, to introduce tools that are used for this purpose, to implement some of the provisions of the Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive, so-called. ATAD Directive. The Act also brings other regulations that go beyond the sealing range. It also increases the tax-free amount and changes in the cost of income for creative persons. It's a very broad regulation, and I wouldn't want to do the Minister's part in presenting this regulation. Nevertheless, the committee by a majority, with one vote against, recommends that the High House adopt a law without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u285	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Minister Paweł Gruza, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? No. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Any of your senators... Senator Klein. Minister, come in. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u286	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The Senator rapporteur spoke, but also at the committee meeting yesterday, when we talked about this law, we said that it had 2 objectives. The first is the sealing of the tax system, and the second is in practice it can be seen The fact that taxes are being raised in some areas is also decreasing in some areas. What is the financial impact on the budget in relation to the entry into force of this law in respect of these 2 parts, i.e. the effect resulting from the sealing of the whole system and the increase in taxes?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u287	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u288	Thank you very much. The effects of the whole of this law are very difficult to estimate due to the large degree of disregulation of this system. There are areas in our economy that are effectively exempt from corporate income tax, in an unintended manner at least legislatively, but unfortunately so. The assessment of the effects of our regulation is therefore difficult. We hope that, according to the OSR, these new rules will bring, if I remember correctly, PLN 1.8 billion. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm not able to present a breakdown of this value right now, it's quite complicated. Single pieces of this puzzle... At least a few dozen million costs associated with the extension of the privilege for artists. This is exactly the kind of element that results in an effective reduction in the taxation of society. Different elements affect this calculation differently. I am prepared to present in writing a precise calculation of our macroeconomic department. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u289	Thank you, Minister. More questions... [[Me too.]] Oh, I'm sorry. Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u290	My question was a fundamental question, which is why... Of course, I would very much ask for this calculation in writing, because in fact in the case of the construction of laws... it is an essential duty to present, to justify the budgetary consequences for each bill. I think it's going to be interesting for us, and we're going to learn more about the whole process of investigating the final shape of the bill, including in terms of budget. I'd like to ask you a question... The Minister said that there are many different elements in this bill. Right? Honestly, it's a little surprising to me that this bill is being constructed this way. It seems that it would be better if this law were devoted to sealing elements, then it would be clear what elements we are correcting throughout the tax system. It is also worth to clearly show the deregulation elements, simplifying, reducing taxes, but it has been designed so that we have to look at it as a... Mr Bierecki said that the issue of increasing the tax credit was also addressed in this bill, but I would like to point out that the flagship slogan of Law and Justice was to bring to... Practically at once this was the suggestion that the tax-free amount would be PLN 8,000. The second year of Law and Justice has ruled, and increasing the tax-free amount is very limited. Could the Minister tell you why this is happening? After all, we are still talking about the fact that the budgetary situation of the state is good, so it would be easy or easier to achieve an objective that would affect all citizens. I mean, the sides are made of all kinds of... For example, we spend 2.5 billion on miners, 2.5 billion, and supposedly even more on shooting galleries, etc. Indeed, there is such a simple distribution of money in various areas, and these fundamental issues, e.g. the tax-free amount is not in practice... Another question. What is the justification that one of the provisions of this law provides for preference for banks? It's a narrow clipping, but it's pretty important. We adopted some time ago, Parliament passed the bank tax bill, and right now we're introducing credit relief... I think there's a record in there, right? I've noticed that the credit relief for loans at risk... is being introduced as part of the cost. The minister lets you know that it's not there, but it's possible that it is, but I'm not quite... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Paweł Gruza: Yes, he is, just...]] ...understood. Maybe that's it for now. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Paweł Gruza: Good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u291	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u292	I'll start at the end. It's a bank thing. There is an element in the Act concerning the cost of bank reserves, but it replaces the existing mechanism. In our view, the new rules are economically equivalent to the old ones, but they rebureaucratize this process. It's just that the banks were making reserves according to ours, let's call it tax rules. There was one calculation and there was a second calculation on the basis of international accounting standards, which was very similar to that calculation, but calculated for the accounting and international reporting purposes of those banks that applied those standards. And it just led to a situation of duplication of work that didn't make any economic sense at all. And this change we are hoping to bring to such a state that these reserves will not be double counted, will be counted once in accordance with these international standards. However, their economic impact is practically the same, so in the case of this one change we are assuming a zero effect as regards the introduction of this new regulation. But on the other hand, we're rebureaucratizing this operation on the bank side. As far as the question is concerned about the amount of free PLN 8,000, I can only say that this is the implementation of electoral obligations. It's certainly not the amount of free dreams we have. And, of course, if we compare our free amount to that of neighbouring countries, whether developed economies of the European Union, we can see that it is objectively modest. Nevertheless, I cannot agree with the thesis, which often fall, that it is a pretense. Several million Poles will benefit effectively from this new amount of free money. And these are our objective calculations. We're talking about 4.3 million people, I think that's how much they're going to benefit from, you can say, the benefits of this new record. I want to remind you that for many years this amount has not been touched at all. Last year we increased and now we are increasing this amount free. We think we're doing this in a rational, secure way for public finances. And as I say, it doesn't seem to be the end of these changes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u293	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. And then Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u294	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, I have a question next to this bill, but I think the answer to it will lighten up a little bit about what's going on in the ministry. About a year and a half ago, we set up this special purpose company, I don't know what to call it, but in any case, it's financial: Critical applications. She was supposed to serve, among other things. that the income from sealing the tax system would be greater. Could you tell the Minister what the effects of this company are? Because it's one of the tools we've developed, except for the other ones, statutory.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u295	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u296	Thank you. Critical applications generally deal with the computerisation of certain business reports, which in principle now have a dimension mainly in the tax on goods and services, i.e. VAT. These activities are primarily about building tools that allow us to gather information and analyse it and use it already in the processes of allocating resources, already these controls, human in a precise manner. Therefore, the percentage The results of the company Critical applications can be seen in VAT sealing, not CIT or PIT, which we are discussing today. However, we see indirect effects of VAT sealing in income taxes. We have a situation where it turns out that operators who issued invoices did not report them in terms of VAT and income tax. Today, as we catch these empty invoices or hidden invoices, there is suddenly also income in income taxes. So we have a positive effect through which it may not be a surprise, but it was not taken into account in the OSR. It's like a layer that's rolling today... We are planning to use these tools, created for VAT purposes, also to increase the precision of reporting certain events for income tax purposes. And here we will be moving towards some automation of intragroup transaction reporting, so that we can better analyse transfer prices and other undesirable phenomena in income taxes. Therefore, I think that the effects of this will also be in PIT and CIT in the future.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u297	Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u298	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'd like to return to the commercial property tax. Introducing a new tax... I would like the Minister to explain two points to us here. The first is the legal opinion that there are great doubts, to say the least, about the constitutional introduction of this tax. I will say a few more words in the debate. If the Minister could comment on that... That's one thing. And reading literally that the cadastral tax, in which the amount of the tax depends on the value of the property... Tell me without ideology what you think is the difference between the commercial real estate tax and the name.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u299	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u300	With regard to this topic of nomenclature, we call the cadastral state register of real estate, in which next to the address of the property and the owner is also assigned value. This register is to be the responsibility of the State whether it is to be kept by the State, and on the basis of this state register it is to be imposed, most often by decision, value tax. And such an obligation is to be borne by the owner of the property or by every user for the benefit of the state or self-government. This tribute to businesses is in principle the cost of doing business, i.e. reducing the tax liability in the value of the rate itself and not the value of the tax. And what we have proposed in this bill is... I would also like to complete my answer on this issue. In many countries there is a kaster and he is dependent on the value of the property, and he is progressive in the sense that certain commercial properties are exempt from it, some are taxed higher, and it is usually related to their value or utility value... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yes. This proposal we made in the bill is a flat-rate income tax. This flat-rate income tax is counted on the value of real estate in the taxpayer's books, not in our books as states, not in our registers. The value of the asset of this commercial property shall form the basis for calculating the flat-rate profitability of that property. From this assumed profitability... And what I'm trying to say here is that this revenue we're assuming is more than twice as much as the actual income we're seeing in the real estate classes we're talking about, and it's not like I'm going to say anything revealing. We assume twice as much profitability as the actual one observed on the market, and we even see it through the public prices of subsequent resales of office buildings or galleries. So we know how the value of this is shaped, and of course it's shaped by profitability. So we're assuming more than twice the yield, going from the value of the asset to the value of the asset, we're multiplying it times the rate, and we're allowing it to be deducted from the income tax that the taxpayer is going to pay anyway. So we're not saying that this is an element of the cost of business, we're just charging this flat-rate tax on classic income tax. Therefore, we believe that it is fully entitled to the thesis that this is income tax rather than cadastral tax. This is the first case. As far as the constitutionality of this solution is concerned, I believe that there is no constitutional value saying that we cannot have different hybrid tax solutions in the Income Tax Act. The Income Tax Act contains many different simplifications, complications and depart from the classic calculation of income tax. For example, the withholding tax completely ignores the costs. If I pay a dividend abroad, interest or licence fee... In the Act there is a withholding tax of 19,20% and he completely skips the cost category. Therefore, it is not income tax in any way, but it is income tax. And it's been working in our solutions for years. There are a lot of solutions that exclude certain categories of costs, which also break down this classic income settlement. We believe that the world is moving towards some simplifications, e.g. The French initiative on taxation of the largest online companies is also a complete distortion of this classic profitability. And they say this is the tax that compensates for the lack of income tax. That's what we've decided to do. I believe that this is absolutely constitutionally permitted. I think it was unconstitutional, for example. introducing exemptions for certain investment funds many years ago, which excluded from income tax just investing in office buildings and shopping malls. I believe that it was unconstitutional to exempt entire industries from income tax. The fact that we are now imposing a flat-rate tax, of course, will encounter a negative reaction because it is a departure from those privileges which I believe were unconstitutional. And the fact that the tax picture will actually change after this amendment is true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u301	Thank you. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u302	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! In these many changes, notabene challenged by the Government's Legislative Office, two issues are noted... [[The Senate.]] The Senate. I'm sorry. Two lines. First of all, there's a flat rate for renting premises, although above profit or turnover actually, because it's... no, the turnover... [[Income.]] Income, 100,000 zlotys. But it rises quite substantially, which contradicts the idea of this lump sum, whose intention was not fiscal value, but to destroy the grey zone. And in fact, in some ways, this rule returns to its original condition when, at the disposal of the premises, quite a common economic phenomenon... This will go back to previous assumptions. Second thing. Small-scale services have been taxed between farmers who have a long-standing, centuries-old tradition and serve, say, not only economic activities, but sometimes in the case of weather disasters or even the ones they have recently... They served as self-help to farmers in the countryside, which would be difficult to run if they weren't there. What does the government do by making such difficult decisions, I would say, and incomprehensible decisions?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u303	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u304	Thank you. As far as flat rates are concerned, I would like to remind you that the purpose of these provisions was initially to include a relatively low tax rate... At first, it was probably 8%. ... [[8,5%.]] ...now it's 8,5%. , and before that was I think it's even less. It was about such an occasional hire between individuals who simply rent an occasional apartment for needs, I don't know, family or student. This provision was used for the very preferential taxation of quasi-economic activities, i.e. the taxation of 5 It's hard to talk about the occasional rent of housing surpluses for individuals. It was used in a certain, you can say, business more than the activity of a natural person who has this lump sum privilege. We felt that there was no point in continuing the privilege of such taxation regardless of the scale of this activity. We thought that about PLN 8,000 per month of rent income is the limit where we say: this is still an occasional rental that can benefit from preferences in the form of 8,5% And what is above PLN 8,000 a month, or PLN 100,000 a year, is something that should be taxed a little higher. And that's where we're supposed to be at 12.5%. [[Senator Kazimierz Kleina: 50%...]] This is 50% But it seems to us that the meaning of this lump sum is preserved to this limit of PLN 100,000. One can, of course, wonder if this 100 000 PLN per year is the right value, maybe it was necessary to define it at a higher level, e.g. 120 thousand zlotys, so that there will be 10,000 zlotys a month. We have accepted PLN 100,000 and we hold on to this, we believe that this is a rational level. I think when someone rents 10 apartments, it's gonna be hard for them to get back into the gray area. If we are talking about services between farmers, I would like to clarify. We're talking about the liquidation of the release, which we think is archaic. It was introduced when there was a shortage of machinery in agriculture. This provision allowed legal persons, not farmers, only agricultural holdings in the form of a legal person, because we are talking about the correction of corporation tax... This provision allowed large organisations, large agricultural enterprises to rent or conduct any other non-agricultural business... This provision exempts them from income tax. Unfortunately, there were adverse events, e.g. such that these large agricultural companies were trading large-profit hospital debts. These various economic activities were exempt from income tax. So this provision has been abused, its meaning has disappeared all these years, because now the machinery in agriculture is much more than when this provision was introduced. And we think that there is no reason to favour the same economic activity, e.g. hire a tractor or hire a combine harvester or any other activity, just because it is done by a large agricultural enterprise with dozens of hectares of land. This causes the situation that an entrepreneur who does not have an agricultural enterprise, only his business idea is e.g. renting machinery or carrying out any agricultural activity would be against a strong agricultural holding in an uncompetitive position, because the latter is exempt from income tax, and this ordinary entity, without this agricultural foot, must pay 19% income tax. It seems that this privilege is not justified today. The tractor's hire is a commercial activity distorting competition if it is not taxed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u305	Thank you. Senator Hare. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u306	Minister, it is undoubtedly that today the village, the farms are very sophisticated. However, this does not mean that there is no complementarity with the services of machinery which are present in certain work kits. They are very expensive and are generally among farmers so that if a given set has one farmer and another set has another farmer, they exchange their services. I guess that's where the problem is, so they don't think I'm gonna say it's under a tax knife. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u307	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u308	We are talking in this change about agricultural holdings carried out in the form of legal persons. We have identified around 900 entities of this type in the country. So this isn't about ordinary farmers, this isn't about the situation that the senator was talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u309	Thank you, Minister. Senator Klein, and then Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u310	Minister, that is the business of the situation that you were talking about, the senator, that farmers rent these machines themselves, and they are such classic farmers... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Paweł Gruza: Individuals.]] This business is tax-free? Isn't that covered by income tax?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u311	I would like to say that this change only regulates the legal situation of legal persons. We do not touch today's way of taxing such activities in the case of personal tax. There are different ways of bartering, let's call it colloquially. At the moment, I am unable to say which type of barter, whether with cash settlement or mutual settlement, means the exchange of equipment, as it is taxed. I can relate to this, but this change does not apply to individual farmers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u312	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u313	However, it seems to me to be hurting, because often these farms, which are individual farms... It's about those that are bigger, better organized, even organized in the form of companies. It will come to this conclusion that those holdings which are not organised in the form of companies, i.e. individual activity of one farmer, will be privileged to those which are organised in the form of companies. I'd like to ask you something and ask you to clarify something. It's about this company thing. Does this mean that if the holding is organized in the form of a company of o.o. or another, but most often the companies of the O.O., carried out a variety of economic activities, mainly agricultural, but also You set such an example, e.g. He was dealing in some kind of hospital debt... If it was an activity involving lending these machines to other farmers, was it entirely exempt from tax, or was it merely the activity of renting machines? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Paweł Gruza: No, in full because...]] If he rented a tractor or a potato digger to a farmer, the whole farm had been exempt from income tax so far?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u314	Yes. And it's been a lot. Unfortunately, too, that persons conducting a completely different economic activity purchased agricultural holdings only to put their original economic activity, their income into the framework of the agricultural economy and thus exempt themselves from income tax. [[All of it.]] And it had nothing to do with any tractors. She was there, for example. carried out, in the form of an agricultural company, advisory activity which was exempted From the economy as a whole From income tax. So there was also this kind of abuse.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u315	Thank you. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u316	The question is the same. I'd like to ask because I couldn't find it, but maybe it's my fault, Minister, what the amount of taxation in these agricultural services will be. Is that gonna be normal? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Paweł Gruza: On normal terms.]] Good. But you didn't convince me, Minister, about the lump sum, because you said that above was accepted here. $100,000 is already a normal economic activity, as you think, but you're still applying a privileged rate, 12.5%. Either we assume that this is an economic activity and we include normal, universal rules, or we assume that this is not an economic activity, and then there is no justification for an increase in the rate by up to 50%. Besides, it's not income, it's income.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u317	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u318	Mr. Senator has just indicated here an explanation for the question asked. Since the flat rate is on income and not on income, the rate is lower than 8.5%. And 12.5%.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u319	Thank you. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Paweł Gruza: Thank you.]] [[Applause]] I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to a question asked by Senator Kleina. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. You're welcome. [[I've been waiting to be at the end, but there's no one else.]] [[Do you have to?]] [[I don't have to.]] [[Voice from the room: But he wants to.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u320	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests! A few insights into the bill. The Minister was talking about an example of commercial property income tax being introduced. Of course, in the public debate it is said that this is the beginning of a cadastral tax. The Minister very nicely, as you have heard, explains that absolutely not. Of course, it is a matter of playing words and interpretation. On the example of this one tax you can say... There is no doubt that there are legal objections to its introduction. Legislature Bureau... There is a negative opinion on the introduction of an additional tax. Because it's an extra tax that's moving in. He should have certain characteristics, parameters, etc., etc. The law introduces important things in many parts. It introduces new taxes or new tax-enhancing elements that will flow to the Treasury. It's not anything that's wrong, because once it's reduced, and once it's increased taxes. This is an action that every parliament in Europe, and not just in Europe, will take. Therefore, there is nothing to be ashamed of. We just have to say that we raise taxes and show what we raise. 'Cause if we're pulling out of an arrangement for some kind of relief, privileges, that the company might have included interest on the borrowing to buy shares as part of the cost of obtaining revenue... Now we are retreating, and of course we have the right to do so. The company will pay higher taxes. There are other entries in this bill. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, these are things. I want to say it again, which can be done. I understand that Minister Szydło... representatives of employers' organisations and employers said I'm gonna say two words about this in a second. That Prime Minister Szydło said... I will quote this here: we will build a business-friendly fiscal system and we will not raise taxes. What you are proposing contradicts the Prime Minister's assertions. Opinion on the Polish tax system... I do not refer to whether he is too progressive or whether taxes are too high, because this is a question that requires longer discussion. According to entrepreneurs, professionals and opinion-makers, the Polish system has a certain characteristic. It is said that it is one of the more complex systems and that it should be sought to simplify as much as possible: that is the amount of tax, that is what we pay, that is the exemption. As the Minister said nicely and neatly, some hybrid taxing... I'm talking about an example of a tax on commercial buildings. This shows that you're building up all kinds of tax-related things. You can do that. I'll say it again: you can do it. But according to analysts and entrepreneurs, the system needs to be simplified. But what's most important and what's the subject... That's what Senator Bierecki didn't talk about, because he said briefly that there were such representatives. The General Mind of Speech If the senator can confirm that, the people who speak... They were mainly talking about the fact that such a system does not represent the stability of the law, generally speaking. And I understand these reactions. If we introduce new taxes, new regulations, the companies and individuals concerned will react in this way: yes, we had better, and now we have worse. But if someone built it... That's what she said, among other things. American company that operated in Poland. When a business project was built under certain conditions concerning functioning in Poland... Of course, it is possible to impose an increasing burden in the sense of income tax by eliminating certain elements that cannot be included in the cost of income, but then we build a really stable country when we do it with a certain perspective. Well, it's November, and it's gonna work right now. Here's what I'm gonna say. With the income tax exemption very carefully, to say the least, as the Minister said... And when you do it, we see it. Very modest and very gentle... Once again, with this state budget condition that the Prime Minister was talking about. Now we've got the correction again. It is worth considering whether the political declarations of the electoral campaign on the tax-free amount should be taken more courageously. That's one thing. And second of all, call things by name. Even the hardest truth, but the truth, it hurts less. Therefore, if we impose a higher burden on entrepreneurs They're supposed to pay higher income taxes. You just have to say it. If Senator Klein didn't make the introduction, as he said at the committee meeting, the tax on large-area stores... So we're introducing this tax that we were just talking about here. If we add a few elements to this, which... and the BCC, and the French-Polish Chamber of Commerce, and the representatives of the National Cooperative Council, and Leviatan gave examples, they presented their concerns about such rapid, very rapid implementation, and even with legal doubts. I think it's best about the quality of the law introduced, the important tax law, the fiscal law, it doesn't prove. And a word at the end. The representative of the Business Centre Club said something about something that is also in the draft of this law. This is the tax on inheritances and donations, the tax on individuals linked to the company's inheritance or donation. I understand. I think that's what the director explained. That there is a mechanism that first leads to depreciation of the company, then increases this value and recounts... Of course, it's something you have to fight, but a good solution isn't absolute elimination... because it's like we're closing down a one-way street because a lot of people drive in the opposite direction. I think the director also said that we would monitor it and consider some adjustments. It is a good thing that this is open, Mr Director, Minister, and you will be monitoring it, but it may be worthwhile to create such an important law from the point of view of the stability of economic activity and income taxes, which concern all Poles, to look at it analytically and take into account the longer perspective, for some time to introduce new regulations. Income taxes, CIT, cover a longer period and this is worthwhile in order to achieve fiscal stability, business sustainability, take into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u321	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Grzegorz Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u322	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, we're not talking about raising taxes here. We're talking about sealing... [[And I told you about sealing.]] ...the tax system, we are talking about Poland's adoption of solutions which are now adopted by the countries of the European Union, and perhaps even wider. By the most developed countries in the world. After various scandals showing how much tax avoidance is... Now there are papers from the Bahamas, and before that, they were from Panama. [[Luxembourg.]] I'm sorry, how? [[Voice from the room: Luxembourg.]] Yeah, it's Paradise Papers. There are a whole series of documents that show the scale of tax avoidance. Effective action is being taken here. The contested law implements solutions that are adopted in most European countries and will be adopted in all, because we are talking about the Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive, the recommendations that the developed world adopts. The fact that some entrepreneurs will pay taxes in Poland or that they will pay higher taxes in Poland, we heard at the committee meeting. That's the kind of voice that actually sounded. Previously, they were allowed to optimize aggressively, and they could do it. From 1 January this beautiful possibility will be taken away from them. Various examples were presented at the committee meeting, including: an example of the company mentioned by Senator Czarnobaj: for years we allowed the cost of financing the purchase of the Polish company to be paid by the Polish company acquired. That's history. Senator Czarnobaj, if you ask me how much this company has paid its CIT tax in the last 20 years, you will hear of very interesting figures that I do not want to quote right now. Maybe the minister who's called will want to say something about it. We do not introduce new taxes, we seal the existing system, using tools that are currently used in the civilized world. Finally, the issue which was so interested in Senator Rulewski, the question of flat-rate rental. The Minister explained the difference between income tax and income tax. It's all cleared up. I would like to add one important thing here. This regulation gives certainty to those who earn income from such rentals. The case-law of the courts was inconsistent in this regard. There was a difficulty in determining from which point, i.e. from what amount of revenue the economic activity begins. The original assumptions, I remember, were to oblige people who rent real estate and thus reach over PLN 100 thousand to register their business activities. Because if someone receives more than 100 thousand PLN, it is hard to say that these are occasional revenues. Right? But you can't force anyone to do business, become an entrepreneur. One can imagine that someone inherits his grandfather's tenement, but he is an artist singer and does not want to be an entrepreneur. Should we force him to become an entrepreneur and profit from the tenement he inherited? Oh, no. The government has proposed a very good solution here. More than 100 thousand zlotys profit 12.5% tax. That's fair. This solution is fair because it gives clarity to the law. If we are talking about the fact that we are striving for clear tax regulations, this regulation gives such clarity to all those who receive income from the rental property. Are we doing everything necessary to seal the tax system in Poland? Not long ago, I had read the materials that the European Parliament had prepared when drafting the ATAD directive, the anti-tax avoidance directive. There are over 600 ways of tax avoidance, more than 600 ways of erasing the tax base or moving revenue, revenue between jurisdictions so as to avoid taxation. How many more ideas will tax advisors have, who live to tell us how to avoid taxes, we will find out in the future. Nevertheless, what the government is proposing is a step in the right direction and is not an increase in taxes. This is to ensure that taxes are paid at the right amount at the right time and fair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u323	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u324	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're against this bill. Not because we're opposed to tax sealing, because we're in favour of organizing various kinds of tax offences. No. We are opposed to this law because it is a chaotic law, that it is the answer to ad hoc problems that the Ministry identifies. They are, actually will appear and these actions are, you would say, correct. But at the beginning of this term, the Minister of Finance said this: we will prepare a general tax bill, which will be a new law and which will close all kinds of gaps, such reliefs that lead to unfair tax optimization. This turned out to be difficult or even impossible, and it is making scrapping solutions that lead to additional formulas related to reverse VAT, in areas that are later very difficult to sort out, such as. in construction. Now there is another tax law that once again closes individual gaps, but does not solve the problems of the whole VAT system in general. We are saying here that we are opposed to optimizing the tax system. After all, even the senators present in this Chamber in previous years participated in such optimization of tax obligations, creating various types of companies outside the country. These were situations that were commendable to these senators, and today they say that these are bad solutions and should be avoided. They have changed well in this matter, that now they say that taxes should be paid in the country and should be paid honestly. If someone rents large-scale apartments and makes a lot of money out of it, should we go in such a way that he has to pay a lump sum? No. There should be such a system that he becomes an entrepreneur, he is an entrepreneur. Otherwise, it leads to the emergence of a gray zone again. So it seems to me that these actions, which are undertaken by the Ministry, are actions that do not order the tax system, they do so in terms of selected elements, residually and not quite correctly. Two years ago in this parliament, at the beginning of our term of office, we adopted this bill, which you mentioned, Senator Czerwiński, who was building a company to regulate the entire tax system. We don't know much about this company today. Even the minister asked about it doesn't say much. And she was built on commercial terms, she was going to prepare a whole program against dishonesty in the tax system. I hope it works, but we can't see it yet. It's been so long that you'd like to see the first results. I therefore think that these actions which the Ministry takes in matters relating to the tax system are unfortunately ad hoc measures consisting in patching gaps that arise in different places. We talked about this case of farmers. This case is not entirely clear and precise. Even those who are farmers are surprised by the information that falls, that there were companies that were all built just to optimize the tax system. No 900 companies on a national scale... And it may turn out that these were, however, exceptional situations, that these were rather cases where different uses were used... It seems that there is no need to build a whole system covering all farmers organized in companies, but to take action like this. That's what the services are for. To eliminate irregularities that occur in one area or another. It is not entirely possible to build a law that eliminates 2 or 3 or even 10 or more dishonest entrepreneurs, because it will in practice also hit those who are honest taxpayers. It seems to me that this requires an action that is more general and geared towards the repair of the tax system. In the previous term, we introduced a reverse VAT system just to prevent VAT fraud in different areas. We knew this was a very difficult operation. As you senators remember, it was a question of steel, steel bars, electronics, etc. There were the biggest problems. At the moment, the government introduced a system that reversed VAT is even in construction. Do you know the consequences of this? The largest for small construction companies, which are subcontractors of large construction companies. VAT refund, which used to be quick with them... Today, for several months, most often for six months, they have to lend their budget because they do not have VAT refund and they issue zero invoices, and they pay VAT in full. Is that what we wanted on this occasion, by introducing inverted VAT almost universally, to hinder the activity of such small, smaller entrepreneurs? I am afraid that the introduction of this law, which we are proceeding and adopting today, will lead to the situation that problems will arise where we least expect them. Such a situation will be difficult for many to accept. We are in favour of good tax law. We want the Ministry to prepare this law. We're waiting for a law like this. And these actions, which are, are half-actions, and that is why we do not accept such solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u325	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u326	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, actually 90%. What I was going to say, you introduced Senator Klein very well. I'd like to address Senator Bierecki. Mr. Senator, I'll say it again so we can understand each other. The essence of our work on the budget committee in the previous term... We could have been different in the vote, but we were trying to bring the discussion to the common denominator. As in math when adding fractions Just to be able to talk about the same thing. And please do not explain to us that our duty as Poland is to implement European law. We're all for it. If this is the law that seals the system, it improves the downloadability... After all, during the discussion, we did not once imply, Senator, that we were against it. It's the other way around. We're all for it. We are in favour of sealing the system as part of state policy and as effective as possible. Don't turn your tail around. If the rent was over 100 grand, you'd pay 8,5%. And you pay 12.5%, is that a reduction? Oh, no, that's an increase. I'm already skipping out on whether right or not to introduce 12.5% , but e.g. 15% or 19% As Senator Rulewski suggested... These are issues to discuss in what range and why. Well, that's an increase in taxes. Mr. Senator, since from the catalog on the cost of obtaining income that we can count, we eliminate any, what, so we lower taxes? Oh, no, we're raising taxes paid by these entities. And here's another sphere that concerns whether we're going in the right direction and which direction is good and which direction is not. I told you that entrepreneurs, representatives of entrepreneurs focused in different types of chambers, gave various examples. They also referred to individual matters concerning the inheritance of the enterprise after, God forbid, the death of the entrepreneur. That's the problem the principal was talking about: well, we'll look into it. We're suggesting we do these things a little more properly, as Senator Klein said, not in a way. I apologise for the definition, especially of gentlemen from the Ministry of Finance, which adds thousands of different types of regulations to this complex system. And those opinions I've heard, now I repeat. I already said at the committee meeting that this law, apart from raising taxes and destabilising the law in Poland, is doing one more thing: it builds a fantastic system of financial advisory companies, which will now work on how to interpret it. That's it. That's it. Mr. Senator, about the fairness of paying taxes, not taking money out of the country, paying taxes in this country... [[In our country.]] I'm sorry, in our country. ... Then I'd like to declare that I'm on your side. If you declare that this is the right thing to do And that's what you do, and I'm on your side, too, and I say, "You should do that in Poland." As regards CIT Last sentence, Mr. Marshal. That's what I want to say to you before, then I think I'm still the president of the SKOK. When we were analyzing the amount of income taxes in Pomerania, there was a time in one year. I don't know what it was like in the next few years because I didn't think about it anymore. That includes, among other things, SKOK was one of the pillars of income tax. But that doesn't mean, Mr. Senator, that other companies in Pomerania, state Treasury companies or private companies, were breaking the law. It's just the rules let them count it down. After all, now a company, Mercedes-Benz or some other company, enters Poland. How many layoffs did she get? Yeah, 80 million or something. Well, there's a policy of state, a policy of attraction... [[Voice from the room: In the zone...]] Well, whether in the zone or not, he enters Poland. It is in the interest of each country to encourage certain elements of fiscal policy to invest also foreign companies. So that I repeat what Senator Klein said again, and I'm signing off on it, Senator. Taxes have to be paid honestly... [[...in Poland.]] ...in Poland, companies are supposed to pay taxes without making revenue outside, but the system should be stable, readable and simple. That's it, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u327	Thank you, Senator. Senator Grzegorz Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u328	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! So I feel obliged to address a few of the issues raised in this debate. The first point concerns this lump sum from the rental of the property. Well, if it weren't for the legal interference we're doing right now, we'd be dealing with a situation in which people who are earning income from renting property over 100 thousand PLN would be forced to undertake business activities. This is the line of case-law, and we would be dealing with this situation, but, as I have already pointed out in my speech, I believe that no one can be forced to take up business. A good solution was found here, so that this interference gives legal certainty and solves the problem that was growing. Many taxpayers lived in uncertainty, did not know whether to set up an economic activity and whether PLN 100,000 was still a sum that could be regarded as income from occasional rentals or not. There was a difference in case law, and this legal interference brings certainty. Finally, there is the issue of inheritance that you mentioned. Well, we expect a company succession law soon, so that this issue will be settled in another act. This problem, which was signalled during the committee meeting, will be resolved by other comprehensive rules that will save many businesses, save many jobs, allow companies to operate after the death of their owner. [[For two years, the son will be able to drive...]] I hope that we will soon be able to deal with this bill. The issue of optimization, which the senators have repeatedly taken up here in their speeches. I would like to remind you of one thing: tax law regulates what is allowed and what is not allowed. So far, businesses have been able to carry out certain activities. The company, which Senator Czarnobaj called in his speech, could indeed have implemented such a way of financing the purchase of a Polish company and could have put the cost of this financing into the costs of this company. She could have. Now we say it's an erosion of the tax base. You can't do that now. We have noticed that solutions which allowed Polish law are used to avoid taxation, so legal certainty, the stability of the law is preserved. Tax laws change, game rules change, but it's okay to do it. Tax increases are allowed, but the tax system should also be sealed slowly and slowly. There's nothing wrong with optimization. The point is that we don't seem like taxpayers are always forced to pay the highest tax possible. If they have the option of making a choice, a legal choice between... if they have the option of putting their business together, that it's in the rules, and at the same time allows them to pay a lower tax, it's legal. Let's not remove the concept of optimization from the dictionary, let's not mean it as a bad word in our dictionary. Optimisation does not mean tax avoidance. We talked about aggressive optimization, which serves to avoid taxation, and that's a big difference. So what is allowed to be done is allowed to be done, and no one can be blamed or punished for it. One more important thing. It didn't happen during our debate. Entrepreneurs who have complex organizational structures, groups of companies... Entrepreneurs who will not be clear about how certain solutions will be seen in tax law may, using the benefits of tax regulation, conclude prior agreements. [[They could've done it all the time.]] Yes. Now they will apply it on the basis of this law, so that they will be able to obtain certainty about the level of commitments in the case of a complex business structure. It is worth mentioning that this bill is not some kind of guillotine that works mechanically. There are tools in it that can be used to ensure the level of liabilities due in complicated situations. Finally, one last thing. Senator Czarnobaj said that now the counselors will make money, they will invent... They have the right, they can invent, they can advise. It is best that they advise how fairly, in accordance with the law, in the so-called. compliance to pay taxes. I would also like to remind the senator that, in another law, as the last country in the European Union, we have adopted a general clause aimed at combating tax avoidance and, therefore, the field for the creativity of those tax advisers who would like to propose aggressive optimization to avoid taxation has been narrowed down in a very important way. I told you there were over 600 ways to avoid tax, so much has been counted, working on the directive. There is no guarantee that another hundred of these ideas will not appear, but the general clause that we have adopted in Poland is a very good tool for us to guard budgetary revenue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u329	Thank you, Senator. Senator Kazimierz Kleina. [[Voice from the room: Briefly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u330	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, indeed very briefly. The Minister said and all the representatives of Law and Justice here say that there is no increase in taxes, but thanks to Senator Bierecki's speech, however, we find that it is. Because if he said that tax optimization was correct and fair, and it was introduced before it entered into force... this law will enter into force, and after the entry into force of this new law the revenue of the state budget will increase by a minimum of PLN 1.5 billion, then, if it did not count, taxes would have to increase. [[Simple.]] And that's all I wanted to say. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, as a correction, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u331	Senator Czarnobaj as a corrigendum. Who do you want to correct? [[Me.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] Who do you want to straighten out, Senator? [[I want to correct Senator Bierecki's statement.]] [[Yes?]] And he mentioned your name? [[Three times.]] All right, Mr. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u332	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, believe me, and if you don't, just ask the Minister: what concerns the conclusion of contracts with this complex structure... could also have been included in the previous system, without this bill, only what the director explained, this bill, in short, will force the use of this instrument more. But the instrument was all the time, only completely untapped.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u333	Thank you, Senator. [[We're done here.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[All right, let's go.]] I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Messages, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u334	Messages. The joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions on the examination of the proposals submitted to the Act amending the Law on the Code of Civil Procedure, the Law on sobriety and combating alcoholism and the Act on the Protection of Mental Health, as well as the draft Act amending the Law on Civil Procedure and the Act on Perpetual Books and Hypothetics will be held today immediately after the Senate meeting in room 182. Message two. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Shh...]] The joint meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Law on the Financing of Educational Tasks will be held today immediately after the adjournment in room 176 has been announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-senat-49-1.u335	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'm declaring a recess until 9:00 tomorrow. We will begin the Ombudsman's report. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 20 minutes 58]]
