ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh... sit down.]] We proceed with the consideration of item 14 of the agenda: information on the Ombudsman's activities for 2016 and on the state of compliance with human and citizen freedoms and rights. The text of the information is contained in print No 519. The Senate Marshal sent the information received to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions took note of the information at its meeting on 25 July 2017. I would like to welcome the Ombudsman, Mr Adam Bodnar, present at the Senate meeting. Welcome, Minister. [[Applause]] I ask the Ombudsman to take the floor and present the information. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u2	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, senators! High Senate! I have the honour to present information on the activities of the Ombudsman and on the status of respect for human rights and freedoms and the citizen in 2016. The document, which was presented to the Senate, has nearly a thousand pages, concerns more than 50,000 cases of people who have turned to the Ombudsman because they have found that the state, public institutions, are violating their rights. It was my job to check, answer and, where possible, within the remit of the Ombudsman's office, to help these people. Sometimes you also inform what else you can do. But the Ombudsman's task is also to reflect on what needs to be changed in our legal system, in the work of the authorities, in order to help people, not to leave them in need or in distress. I would like to stress that its key tasks, which often prevent human harm, can be achieved by the Ombudsman through cooperation with the High Senate, in particular through cooperation with the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, have made some of the demands of the citizens possible on the legislative path. I am also pleased that the committee is continuing its work from the previous Senate term on the supervision of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. It is very important for citizens that the Strasburg judgments become an opportunity for annual reflection on the state of Polish law and the functioning of public institutions. High Senate! Each case, which is described in the annual information, has its weight and quality weight. For each there is some element of personal harm, sometimes concerning one person, sometimes concerning thousands of people, and it is worth to learn about it, it is worth to learn from these matters about the state of affairs of the Republic of Poland and inspiration for further actions. All the more so because this is not only about documenting human rights violations, but also about proposing solutions for the future, indicating what urgent problems are to be corrected. And this ombudsman's map of human concerns can really be helpful to anyone who wants to help, who works for the common good and has the will to act. However, I understand that at the time it is intended to present the annual report today, everything cannot be discussed. Therefore, allow me, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, to refer only to selected cases concerning 2016. I spoke about some of them at the time of the report in the Sejm, but I will, of course, also mention them here, because they are particularly important. I will also try to talk about new issues which I believe, because of the special interest of the Senate, should be the subject of deeper reflection in this House. I'd like to start with the hardest, the most dramatic. On 15 May 2016, a young man, Igor Stachowiak, died at the Wrocław Police Station after being electrocuted by handcuffs from a stun gun. Taser doesn't do that. It is intended to replace firearms in critical situations. You probably remember the case of Mr. Robert Dziekanski, who died at Vancouver Airport a few years ago because of the use of a stun gun. Mr. Igor Stachowiak was tortured and died. The investigation is ongoing, but - What should I notice? It only accelerated after the independent media published the video of the incident, as the journalists who showed inquisitiveness and courage were able to tell them what had happened. Your Senate, I'm talking about this case, because unfortunately she is no exception. Our police, as well as uniformed services around the world, have a problem with the use of unwarranted violence. I am not only concerned with the situation of breaching the standard of non-human and degrading treatment, that is, the situation when the police exceed their powers because they are poorly trained because they are poorly prepared to perform their activities, because such situations occur all over the world, but I am referring to a situation where there is absolutely no unjustified violence. The Ombudsman examined 22 legal cases, which have ended in final judgments over the last 8 years, in 2009 and 2016. And from these 22 cases, 33 police officers were convicted. These were situations that occurred throughout the country, situations that were just being used at police stations of unjustified violence, violence that served to humiliate a person, extortion of testimony which was in no way included in the catalogue of police activities and which could not even be justified as simply making a mistake in everyday activities. These are matters from Koszalin, Bolesławica, Olsztyn, Lipna and many, many other cities. I believe that ending this and causing the situation that there will never be a situation of torture at Polish stations, this is one of the most important matters to be dealt with in the protection of citizens' rights. There are ways to achieve this: we need to create mechanisms for early response, checking, monitoring so that we don't have to despair about human tragedy later. In this context, I would like to stress that the Ombudsman is carrying out the tasks assigned by the Additional Protocol to the UN Convention, the tasks of the national mechanism for preventing torture, inhuman and degrading treatment and punishment. This is the mechanism that gives us not only the opportunity to get acquainted with these types of cases, but also to monitor the various places of imprisonment. Our comments from the analysis of these cases are as follows. First of all, torture does not occur in cases of serious, dramatic cases, but often in cases of minor, ordinary, simply cumbersome cases such as thefts, and victims of these brutal questions, which are preceded by formal hearings, are generally weaker, less educated, less resourceful, those who do not know that they can call or even do not have how to call immediately a lawyer who does not even know that they have such a right. Therefore, it is very important that every person detained and not just wealthy and educated people have access to the help of a professional: a lawyer or legal counsel. We don't have that in Polish law. I stress this: they have those people who know who to call, who have money to pay for such legal aid immediately. It is clear from the experience of other countries and also from those judgments which have been given by the European Court of Human Rights It's a case like Salduz v. Turkey. That this is one of the standards that should be introduced in our law. Despite many demands that have been raised for years, this has not been achieved. Secondly, the use of a taser should be documented as well as the use of firearms. And that's what I asked the chief of police. We must also introduce the definition of torture into our criminal code, because officers must be aware of what they are responsible for. Because there's a difference between responsibility for torture and responsibility for excesses or responsibility for abuse of a person deprived of liberty. Words are very important in this context, and I therefore urge that the crime of torture be introduced into the criminal code. And I am always addressing you because we must bear in mind both the case of Igor Stachowiak and many other previous cases. We need to know that this case is extremely important and that it is urgent. Another problem that I would like to draw the attention of the High Senate concerns burdensome investments. Imagine the housing estate on the sidelines, among the fields of the old pegeer, where crops have always been cultivated. And suddenly, within a few months, in these fields, huge breeding farms are created by surprise. It happens somewhere in the middle of Poland. Effect? Fetor, flies, rodents. The place is no longer fit for life, but these people have nowhere to go, although their living conditions have completely changed. And what's the problem? The problem is that, theoretically, the inhabitants could have become a party to this situation before these farms came into existence. They could ask for details, make the local authorities aware that the cost for the environment could be greater than the expected benefits of the investment, but they did not usually know it. They didn't know the investment was planned, they didn't know what the legal possibilities were. The municipal or district government did not contribute to the public consultation and, as a result, they are in such a situation rather than another one. It is worth noting that in the Member States of the European Union this problem has been collided with long ago. That is why the Union has put in place solutions for proper consultation so as to help citizens and resolve unnecessary conflicts through dialogue, but the fact that rules are in place does not mean that they are taken seriously. And these people have a legitimate grudge. When I meet people all over the country, I still face situations concerning energy lines, and these are wind farms, and these are the issues of the creation of smelly, humming factories or breeding farms. And these are new phenomena in my opinion. These are phenomena that need reflection because our country is developing, but we also need to keep thinking about what this sustainable development should be all about and how to deal with the dark sides of economic development together. The Ombudsman therefore calls for clear standards for odor. And this is the postulate that has been presented, you can say, for years. It is such a constant melody, but all the time these solutions concerning odor are not introduced, which makes it difficult for people who are in such a situation to fight for their rights. I also draw attention to the need to regulate permissible noise standards. I am pleased that legislation on wind farms has recently been adopted, especially in this part, which concerns the placing of windmills close to habitats, close to the homes of residents. This is a step in the right direction, but there are still a lot of people who have been, you can say, affected by this misfortune of presence or proximity of windmills before the bill was passed. And these people have quite serious problems with making claims for damages or changing their lives. Therefore, what I am trying to do and what I am trying to encourage others to do is to inform citizens, but also non-governmental organisations, about their rights, so that local communities can be heard before decisions are taken. Hearing should be a sanctity and not just a burdensome bureaucratic duty, which is why it is very important to stress the importance of consultation. They must not be treated façadely, and we must always make sure that people know that something important is going on, something that can affect their future lives, and that they have the right to speak. And if, in this context, there are situations in which this standard has been infringed, the Ombudsman shall endeavour to join the proceedings as far as possible and question the decisions taken. It also supports people whose family homes have lost value because of such investments in their neighborhood. The Ombudsman supports them in court proceedings, but I must assure you that such proceedings It's not easy at all. And that is why I would like to stress that this is a problem that affects an increasing number of people. Even the recent forum on rural organisations was essentially entirely devoted to these issues. As many as 400 people from all over the country came to Maróz near Olsztynek to talk about these kinds of threats. It is very important not only to talk about it in the group of NGOs or those affected, but also to raise it in Parliament. The Senate seems to me to be a suitable, extremely important place for this. It is also worth thinking about improving the law in such a way that sustainable development is actually possible. In this respect, it is worth taking advantage of the knowledge of NGOs, because they know where there are traps in the framework of the rules, and they know what needs to be changed. You just have to ask them. In the context of the situation of NGOs, but also the situation of individuals, I would like to draw attention to the issue of free legal assistance. I know that the Senate has always been interested in this issue, and has always given great importance to the citizens of the Republic of Poland being sufficiently legally empowered to have sufficient power to exercise their rights. It must be said that the Law on Free Legal Assistance, which was adopted more than two years ago, is not a good enough legal act. There are doubts regarding both the scope of this law and its subject-matter. Moreover, there are often cases where it is not only the first advice but, in fact, it can be said, more long-term support for citizens in the investigation of their rights. I am pleased that the President of the Republic has taken the initiative to prepare an amendment to the Law on Free Legal Assistance. I think that this amendment should soon be the subject of a broad debate that will lead to its adoption. This debate should also address the question of who should be responsible for distributing legal aid funds. Should this be implemented, as it is now, at the level of local government units or at the level of voivodships? This is, I think, one of the most important problems that appears in the bill. Your Senate, another case, which is particularly painful, is the problem of homeless Poles. The homeless crisis, contrary to what we're willing to believe, can affect anyone. All it takes is something we couldn't predict. An accident, bankruptcy, family crisis, addiction. There are situations where everything goes to ruins because we haven't been able to control our emotions, and we have nowhere to go back. People go to big cities looking for jobs. If they fail, they often refuse to admit defeat and stay on the street. This is happening not only in big Polish cities, but also in cities in Europe. There are also homeless Poles there. How can we help them? Again, this is a subject where cooperation and coordination are very important. Not everyone wants help, but everyone should know that if he needs help, the Polish state will help him. There's a lot to do. These are important things. I couldn't convince the government to create a Homelessness Coordinator. The answer I received from the Prime Minister's level was this: it is good that the Ombudsman is taking care of it and that he will coordinate it, but unfortunately at the level of the government we do not have such a coordinator. One of the problems is that homeless shelters cannot formally accept people in need of care and health care. There is a gap between the social assistance system and the health system. Fortunately, we have the announcement of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy that shelters for homeless people providing care services will be built. Winter is about to come and we'll be talking about homelessness again. I wish the next winter wasn't. only and only a chronicle of subsequent cases of homeless people freezing, but only to become a chronicle of actions undertaken by the government, actions towards resolving this problem in relation to the various demands presented by the Ombudsman. I am pleased that the Constitutional Tribunal has recently issued a judgment that I have been waiting for since the beginning of my term of office. I submitted a request in October 2015. On the eviction from apartments that are occupied by uniformed officers. The Court concluded that this cannot be done without adequate guarantees and countering evictions on the pavement. In this case, administrative enforcement provisions are in force and therefore there were no appropriate guarantees. In this context Unfortunately, I also have to point out that the program of living +... I think it is a very important program that can fix the housing situation, but it has been deprived of mechanisms to protect people from eviction on the basis of difficult situations. Before the President signed the bill, I called for this to be corrected, but unfortunately it did not. I hope that perhaps, before this programme actually works properly, the rules will be revised. Moreover, the provisions protecting tenants do not apply to apartments purchased on credit; the rules are older than the practice of taking loans for housing. What does that mean? It means that a non-paying borrower can be auctioned, evicted to a shelter, regardless of whether he is accidentally in an uninjured situation because the law is late in this regard. While we are talking about housing loans, I will say that the problem in Poland is still unsolved the issue of so-called. foreign exchange loans. Last year, the Ombudsman, together with the financial spokesman, launched an information campaign for those who took out such loans. We drive around the country, explain to people that they do not have to wait for legal solutions, that our right already has to offer them many solutions, that there are possibilities for obtaining free assistance and that it is worth using, for example, the substantive knowledge, of all the studies that have been prepared by the financial officer. This problem shows how great the crisis is when it comes to knowing how to enforce their rights, when public institutions could help, how to use their knowledge. This knowledge provided by professional institutions, such as the financial spokesman, is not available only and only to those most oriented and advanced clients who benefit from the support of professional law firms, it is available to every citizen. This shows that adopting legal solutions and creating new institutions is not enough, because it is very important to ensure communication, to show what these institutions are for. High Senate, you can't avoid the problems of people with disabilities. I'm sorry to say this, but our country is still a disabled country. It works well in ordinary situations, but when you lean over an individual case, come with the help of specific people, our country does not always manage. I'd like to give you an example that shocked me. I know that there are many such examples, but these are always situations when people start to wonder how much harm there is in Poland. This is an example from Chelm, we had a meeting there, one of the regional meetings, one of the 105 regional meetings I had since the beginning of my term of office. A senior gentleman then told me about the situation of his family. She has an adult daughter with a deep disability, she and her wife are taking care of her, they both feel the burden of years and feel that there is no help out of nowhere. I can still hear this gentleman's words: my child has rejected me everywhere because they say he doesn't qualify with such a disability. My daughter sits at home crying, and after all, a three - four - hour living room would be enough. If you don't help us, how are we gonna handle this? Yeah, how? Cases of people with disabilities people report to a spokesman throughout Poland. Regional meetings sometimes turn into... On the one hand, it is a discussion about the rights of people with disabilities, and on the other hand, The rights of the elderly. These are the dominant topics. And we always hear about what happens when a sick child comes into a normal family, an accident happens, it attacks a disease, age gets stronger. And unfortunately, the problem is that we don't have a system of helping people whose disability doesn't give them a chance to rehabilitate any kind of professional activity. All care falls on the shoulders of the family. If the family has problems, it wonders what they can do, if they're going to put the child in a nursing home. In such a situation, if good cooperation is established between parents, NGOs, local authorities, it turns out that the problem can be solved. There are skylights, environmental self-help homes, places where these people can spend their time, and parents can rest. But it doesn't always work that way. I actually brought up the Chelm case because it was there that a very interesting cooperation was made with regard to the involvement of the local community, the Church authorities and the NGO. And we get this message that something's moving. and there is hope that such a place will arise. But I'm showing that this isn't just about solving this individual case, it's about how the whole system doesn't work. Other issues that have been systemic problems for years are also unresolved. The judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2014 is not enforced, which, moreover, came at the request of Members of the Law and Justice, and which ordered the amendment of the rules on assistance to carers of persons with disabilities. We are currently in such a situation that the amount of benefit to the family varies depending on whether the disability was established in childhood or was established at an adult age, because it is e.g. the result of a communication accident. It is either PLN 1 thousand 406 or PLN 520. The Constitutional Tribunal held that this is discrimination, that is unequal treatment, but that judgment has not been enforced. In fact, the only thing these families can do, if they are, can be said, aware of their rights. And that's what I'm trying to help them with. This is to challenge the decision of a city or municipal social assistance centre to grant a lower allowance, to go to the administrative court with such a decision and to encourage the administrative court to apply the constitution directly and to apply the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. And in some cases, it works, but let's imagine... This is completely different than if a legislative amendment had simply been adopted, which is necessary in this regard. So that these are situations that also show what the constitution is for. However, it should not be that citizens are de facto left to themselves and the government extends each year the period when this solution is adopted when the amount of benefits is compensated. This is just one of the problems with people with disabilities. There is much to be said about these problems: the system of case law, the situation of deaf people, people with guide dogs who are not allowed into different public places, the adjustment of electoral premises, the universal design of public buildings. And one can say that behind each of these problems is suffering, humiliation, feeling that you are a second-class citizen, something worse than others. And here I would like to stress that Poland is a party to the Convention The UN on the rights of persons with disabilities. It was a great success that Poland ratified this convention. I regret that we have not ratified the Additional Protocol, which allows for a complaint procedure in the event of violations of the rights of persons with disabilities. But I am talking about this because for next year there is a periodic review of the fulfilment of Poland's obligations on the basis of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. I hope that this will not only be an opportunity to debate, but that by then most of these problems will be eliminated and Poland will be able to boast of an increasingly better standard in terms of treating people with disabilities. And that, above all, the philosophy that comes from the convention will be strengthened: that society and the state are to adapt to the needs of people with disabilities rather than vice versa. This philosophy assumes that we must do everything in our power and what is rational for these people to be full citizens. High Senate, another difficult problem. this is the problem of nursing homes and their residents. The media has repeatedly reported the situation of residents of nursing homes who have been cruelly and thoughtlessly treated: tied to chairs, locked in a room, tied to bed, beaten, sometimes flooded with cold water. Very often, journalists ask me how to improve the rules so that everyone responsible for such treatment is severely punished. The only problem is that punishment after the fact will not solve the problem. Because we're an ageing society, we're a society in which families don't live together more and more, seniors do their own thing until the forces completely leave them, and then, unfortunately, in many families, there's this situation that... the family doesn't do so much according to the principles of intergenerational solidarity, which is looking for a proper place of care. The horror of the family is greater if the family has moved to Great Britain in the meantime and the parents have stayed in their homeland unattended without support. This phenomenon can be seen in statistics. The number of places of care in commercial establishments that are controlled by the voivodship or simply carried out on the basis of ordinary economic activities is increasing. The question arises as to whether the carers in these places, in these private, commercial ones, know how to behave, whether they are properly controlled, whether we as a country care about complying with the relevant standards. I know that this is not the case, because since we have social services houses that are subject to quite deep scrutiny, and yet there are a lot of different violations there, the Ombudsman recently published a visitation report on 146 social services houses. It is all the more possible to imagine that in those private places which are carried out on a commercial basis, it may not be best. A team of national mechanisms for prevention of torture and inhuman treatment, which in the Ombudsman's office deals with such issues, is able to visit between 90 and 100 institutions per year, institutions where there are people without freedom. I would like to draw attention to the fact that these are not only prisons and arrests, but also psychiatric hospitals, juvenile shelters, youth educational centers, police detention rooms, police child chambers, and DPSs, and these private nursing homes. Unfortunately, with such and not other funding from the Ombudsman's office, we are not able to increase this number, but this year we have decided, after these media reports, to include preventive action also these commercial nursing homes. I believe this is one of the better ways to protect our seniors. If these preventive measures are increased, there will be a good chance that seniors will be safer. I would like to stress that this is not just a matter of care for people who are already in such facilities. What is and should be such a word that every person who remembers whether the rights of persons with disabilities or elderly persons or persons with intellectual and mental disabilities is a concept of deinstitutionalisation that assumes that the isolation of a person, the placement of him or her in a mental hospital or in a social assistance home, should be the last thing that we need to do to ensure that those who need support stay in their homes as long as possible are in day-to-day care homes. The idea is to surround them with as much support as possible. As part of the work of the Ombudsman's office, we have prepared such, you can say, a road map for each local government unit, which is called: a model of support for older people in their place of residence. In various places in Poland I meet with local rowers and talk about it, I encourage them to create solutions in this area. And again, the situation in Poland on a principle, you can say, archipelagos of hope in the sea of hopelessness... Because there are places in Poland where it looks exemplary Anyone interested in this, I would send to Stargard or Gdańsk, where these solutions are really very complex. But there are also many places where this senior policy in terms of how long and coordinated support at the place of residence is almost absent or almost non-existent, and when it comes to the rights of seniors, it is only from the point of view of such daily activation. This is, I think, a big thing and I very much encourage you to familiarize yourself with our proposals and to cooperate with the Ombudsman's office on this subject, because here we have really a lot of thoughts and a lot of practical knowledge that we have gathered thanks to the long-standing cooperation with the Expert Committee on Elders. Your Senate, another matter concerns the honor and dignity of citizens. When a Polish citizen, a prisoner of Auschwitz, demands a proper apology from German television for using the wording of the Polish concentration camp, we must be there for him. And the spokesperson was, I'm still on this case, enforcing the judgment of the final court. Fortunately, a few days ago, we received important support from the German court in Koblenz. When people talk about how they're at war or earlier, e.g. in Radom, they were treated by the militia, how they were humiliated, how they were abused or how they were wrongfully deprived of their freedom, we cannot say, but it has expired, and unfortunately it is a 1995 law. I'm not talking here. only about the issue of property compensation, because much has been done in this respect. history and many financial mechanisms have been created, although not quite yet... One of the initiatives taken by the Senate has not yet been specifically implemented. I'm talking about seeing these people's stories, hearing them, apologizing, establishing facts. Therefore, I look forward to examining the application which I sent to the Constitutional Court in spring 2016. It examines the constitutionality of the solutions adopted in 1995. The legislator then made it possible to prosecute communist crimes, but the law was written in such a way that it allowed only more serious crimes to be prosecuted and in cases of criminal offences for up to 5 years the limitation period was also resumed, but it was theoretical. Unfortunately, I'm regretting it. The Supreme Court has contributed to a specific absolution in the case of these offences of minor importance. I hope that the Constitutional Tribunal will have a chance to make this right thanks to this 2016 proposal. I'm waiting for an answer in this regard. This is a difficult task to repair, but by solving this problem, the more we should try not to do further harm. Unfortunately, in my opinion, this was the case with the Law on determining the pension rights of officials of various services. So-called. The Repressive Act of 16 December 2016 was intended to remedy the damage, and from the perspective of the Ombudsman it shows that it adds many new ones because it applies collective responsibility. When it was adopted in the Seym, there was no discussion, there were no amendments, and they could prevent many disasters. There were also no amendments in the Senate, although the heroes of our history sought it, as few people persecuted by the Security Service. The law is written so that anyone who worked in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs before 1989 can be recognized as ubeka by family, friends, neighbors. Since December 2016, the Ombudsman has received a lot of requests from people who ask: "But for what?" They say, "III Rzeczpospolita tested me, verified me, faithfully served her/served her, creating new special forces, a new police force. She trusted me, and I gave the best, often risking life and health. Or they ask: 'For what? I was a programmer, creating a PESEL system. I was an athlete, only employed in a militia club. Why do they ask a disabled child from birth to lose his pension because the state punishes such dead parents? Why should the family of the deceased in the service of the III Polish officer have reduced benefits? Because that's how this bill works. It doesn't account for people's individual actions, it just applies collective responsibility. So we have developed laws that collectively deprive people of their honor and dignity. Indeed, we can see that there are people in its modes who the legislator did not really mean. This law still works and hurts, which is why I am calling for it to be corrected, and this is because the state has a duty to protect the dignity of every citizen. Your Senate, I would now like to speak about the right of citizens to court. It's a subject you can't miss. The right to an independent court guarantees human rights and freedoms. The story of the seicinto driver, who had the misfortune to crash into the Prime Minister's car, happened this year. But already last year we had a case of parents who in court demanded a refund of medication for children who had a disease, contrary to the opinion of the Minister of Health. It's rare. There are also a lot of violence cases. In these cases the independence of the court and impartiality of the prosecutor's office are of particular value, especially if the perpetrator is a prominent member of the local community. In each of these cases, the independence of the court is a key value. At the same time, I would like to stress that independence is a constitutional value that needs to be protected. We had a big discussion about this here in the Senate in July this year. However, I repeat that Polish courts need to change. In my office, we've prepared a publication on the 20 cassations with which the Ombudsman spokesperson spoke, the cassation in criminal matters. We have chosen typical, human, everyday stories that show that sometimes the rights of citizens, especially those who are weaker and less resourceful, escape the attention of our Tamida. But the reasons for this are in many regulations, in the changes that have been made to solve one problem. So, on the one hand, the procedure is accelerated, formal modes are introduced, but on the other hand, it is forgotten that someone who maybe did not understand and understood or was not prepared for this is suffering at the end. That's what they are, among other things. reasons for some people with intellectual and mental disabilities who at some point got caught up in the modes of justice and were arrested by investigators and prisons. That's the subject I've been talking about many times here. Sometimes situations arise when things are not clear and simple, and when they cannot be judged without listening to a man. We really have a lot to improve, and the courts also need to reflect on what needs to be changed in their daily work, their daily activities. I signal the need for these changes in many speeches that have been presented for many, many years. These are all specific changes, but these are changes that are poorly converted into simple passwords. It is much easier to talk about supposedly major reforms, and it is harder to deal with everyday matters involving thousands of people. It goes on, among other things. a question such as the scope of the cases which the courts deal with, i.e. the so-called. Cognition. It is a question of how we can strengthen judges investigating cases that are becoming increasingly difficult, starting with more and more complicated family matters, for example. because of cross-border problems, and ending with complicated financial matters, such as currency loans. It is a question of how to deliver legal mail effectively, how to promote alternative dispute settlement methods. We still do not have a law on forensic experts, a new law on forensic experts, and each of us would probably be able to quote from our minds a story about one or another quality of opinion or who was expert in what case and why it happened. Finally, it is a matter such as ensuring that people with disabilities have the right to fair access to court. In a word, I am going to say that the justice system needs to be reformed, but this is a reform consisting of a lot of sometimes small elements that must be introduced as a result of a good debate and wondering not only how to implement it, but also what the consequences will be. However, regardless of these changes, the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges should always remain a value. In this context The effects of the changes in the Constitutional Court must also not be forgotten. What does it matter to people? It has that the Constitutional Tribunal is a court of law. If the Court is not alert, it is increasingly a temptation to adopt the new law quickly, without analysis, consultation, disregarding the votes of opposition, because the mechanisms that could stop such a right have ceased to work, to improve. Yet, the law can be burdened with errors that the designers have not noticed. It can work in a way that the designers didn't anticipate. This is a dangerous situation, because we are entering a period when due to the paralysis of the Constitutional Tribunal the law begins to be tested on people. They become the first victims of underdogs, gaps or neglect. And good quality of law is a very important guarantee of legal security and whether, as a Member State of the European Union, we can be treated as a party that can be trusted. All judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters, family matters, is based on mutual trust. Principle of mutual trust this is the key to understanding the whole system of European law. And this is about mutual trust when Poland asks for the release of a wanted person who has fled the country somewhere on the beaches of Spain, but also about babysitting when one of the parents lives in Poland and the other in Ireland. If there is no mutual trust, unfortunately, this cooperation between courts will not work well and people will suffer. The subject, which I would also like to draw attention to, is a matter of migration crisis. The tensions associated with the migration crisis hit Poles not only with a wave of hatred in the country, but also with a wave that destroys the good traditions of our country, the tradition of multiculturalism and traditions of Polish culture. We must be aware that for the same reason in other countries Poles may be the object of attacks on aliens, those who came from far away. This is what happened in the UK last autumn: Poles in Harlow became victims of anti-immigrant attacks, one of them died. In this respect, I established cooperation with my British counterpart, sensitising him to the affairs of Poles. I must admit that the answer was fully satisfactory, and the fact that the highest British authorities were involved in the case, that is, I think, a standard that should take place in the case of any racist crime. I'll tell you more. If we think about the set of actions that are being taken in such situations and which should be promoted in the context of the fight against hate crimes, we could also deal with this in Poland, because we need to follow three basic principles. Prevention and awareness of why this is important and why this poses a threat to the functioning of society, first; secondly, education; and thirdly, an effective legal system and responsibility for actions. Unfortunately for each of these elements, each of these principles I see serious shortcomings in the functioning of the Polish state. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, we can talk about a serious crisis, not only in this context, but also in the context of Polish families abroad and those in which one of the parents is Polish. I know these are issues that are always extremely interested in the Senate of the Republic of Poland. The opening of borders, the fact that we have the right to choose a place of work and residence, gave Poles new opportunities, but also created new problems. It happens that Polish families care for children, e.g. In Germany or Norway, children are taken away, believing that they are being harmed. This is due to misunderstandings and mistakes, but also to cultural differences, to a different understanding of what a parent may have towards a child. The Ombudsman signalled these problems to the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe, the chairman of the petition committee of the German Parliament, also to the German ombudsman of Rhine and Palatinate, we are also in constant contact with the embassy of the Republic of Berlin. I would like to stress that this also applies to Polish citizens living in Norway. After the intervention of the Polish Ministry spokesperson in a diplomatic note to the Norwegian government, he argued that Norwegian officials Barnevernet, that is, this authority for children, did not take into account the cultural differences between Polish and Norwegian families and affect a slightly different approach to raising children. I am glad that changes are being made in this direction. Perhaps thanks to good dialogue, due to good international cooperation, these problems will be resolved and the Office of the Ombudsman will assist in this. I would like to draw your attention again to the question of the judiciary, that this problem is not just a matter which is often the subject of reflection by the media, but it is bigger, that is the problem of cross-border cooperation in family matters at all. If we have a situation in which thousands, hundreds of thousands of Polish citizens start living outside the country, cross-border marriages arise, the consequence is problems, not only divorce problems, not only property problems, but also child care problems. These are issues that are extremely important. This is additionally due to the big social and legal problem in Poland, namely the issue of parental relations after divorce, the issue of alternate care, parental alienation, contacts with children, the effectiveness of supervisory mechanisms and enforcement of these contacts. Because I see many problems here, both in terms of the functioning of the family court and in terms of understanding of this issue, it is also a matter of great interest for many NGOs I'd like to invite you to co-organize this congress of the Child Rights Ombudsman. I would like to make it possible for the first time in Poland to meet representatives of state institutions, as well as representatives of courts, family courts, scientists and representatives of associations and foundations dealing with this difficult problem. Perhaps we can introduce some solutions, consider solutions that will improve the quality of our legal system on the one hand, and on the other hand point out that these issues cannot be treated in isolation from the social changes that are taking place in our country, such as changes in the perception of the role of father in raising children. Your Senate, another case that is important to the Senate and to the Ombudsman, these are petitions. I am pleased that representatives of the Ombudsman's office could cooperate in the examination of petitions, which may lead to the elimination of some problems occurring in Polish law. We keep track of all the petitions that go to the Senate. We are pleased that some of the topics that arise in the context of the Ombudsman's activities are addressed here, at Senate level. One such problem, which has been in existence for years and presented by NGOs and the community of former police officers, the police community, is, for example, the issue of rehabilitation of a police officer who has been acquitted in the context of the charges presented to him, and his problem is that he cannot return to the police because there is no possibility to resume disciplinary proceedings five years after the end of this procedure. Well, it usually takes a little more time than five years to explain all the circumstances at the rate of our courts, and we can talk about deep injustice to those who are in this situation. It is also a question of the implementation of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Grabowski v. Poland, i.e. the introduction of mandatory checks, on a regular basis, every 3 months, the validity of staying in a shelter for minors, or, finally, what I think is the praise of the Committee on the Rule of Law, Human Rights and Petitions, that is, taking on the subject of deaf people all the time. As we know, this is a specific group that requires extraordinary support and reflection on how to strengthen and improve their legal and factual situation. And these topics are constantly appearing at committee meetings, and representatives of the Hearing Officers' Commission from the Ombudsman's office can participate in these meetings of the committee and serve as a council. Finally, I am pleased that the Senate has taken up the issue of amending the provisions of the Social Insurance Fund Pension Act and that, as a result of the Ombudsman's statement, a change has been prepared to grant a funeral allowance to the person entitled to bury the child who was still born, regardless of the duration of the pregnancy. Now all you have to do is wait for the bill to be passed. Petitions are extremely important for the Ombudsman, because we are also trying, regardless of the actions of the Senate, to address some of the issues, general speeches. One of the topics that we have taken up was the issue of alerting by means of SMS notifications; it is something that is particularly important for deaf people. We're tracking what the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration is doing with this topic. High Senate, I haven't told you about many other problems that are hard on people. I did not talk about problems with reprivatization throughout Poland, not only in Warsaw, especially in the context of tenants' rights. We have a lot of these things, and we are constantly trying to help citizens in our capacity to act. I didn't talk about women's rights, problems with access to health care, which is the subject of constant correspondence with the Minister of Health. I was not talking about violation of the right to privacy, the subject of surveillance; I stress here that there is still a lack of an independent authority in Poland that controls special services. I did not talk more about matters arising from the breach of the principle of equal treatment, and in various situations, including unequal treatment on grounds of religion, on grounds of sexual orientation. I hope that the recommendation adopted by the Polish Republic to extend protection against hate crimes in terms of persons discriminated against because of sexual orientation and gender identity will not only be a diplomatic declaration, but will actually be reflected in Polish law. I've actually been asking for this since the beginning of my term of office. That's all I can talk about is on this thousand pages that I've presented to the Senate. However, the question arises as to what we can do about it. And may I at this point quote the wise words of someone I had the privilege of knowing during one of our last year's regional meetings, Archbishop Alfonso Nossola. The Archbishop recently won one of the most important awards for those engaged in reconciliation between nations and human rights, the prize for them. Sérgio de Mello. When I asked the archbishop what to do and how to deal with today's problems when a wave of bad emotions and conflicts accompanied it, he said, "The solution is dialogue. This is the native language of humanity, because the enemy turns into an enemy, and the enemy turns into a friend. I would like to encourage all of us to take advantage of this advice so that we can climb over the Ministry Poland, beyond the sectoral and political divisions, over the personal wars. We need to learn how central authorities are to work with local authorities, learn from each other how to solve problems and how to shape thought-out public policy. We must ensure that social trust is built, and without dialogue it is not possible. And what we should have in common is humility towards our citizens, diligence and realizing that we have a specific mandate to do and that this mandate must be done first and foremost fairly and conscientiously. High Senate, the institution of the Ombudsman in our country celebrates this year's 30th anniversary. From the beginning it was a committed and responsible institution, so we did not want to celebrate the jubilee of the celebrations. We didn't want to have another Byzantine party, we just put it on a creative debate. In a month's time, December 8th and 9th, we will organize the First National Civil Rights Congress. It will be a congress that will consist of 36 thematic panels. More than 150 experts will participate. We invite all interested. You can register on a special web portal that we have launched for this purpose. All these panels will be dedicated, you can tell, to the specifics, to the problems that are in Poland to be solved, and to what in Poland requires special reflection. I'd like to take this opportunity to invite the ladies and gentlemen of the senators as well. There'll be something to talk about, and there'll be someone to talk to. We will be able to reflect once again on how better and more effectively to defend citizens' rights and how to make people in Poland feel like blacksmiths of their own destiny and that fate be gracious and fair to them. Once again, I cordially invite you and thank you for listening. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Spokesman. At present, senators may ask no more than a minute of questions to the Ombudsman, Mr Adam Bodnar. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska first expressed her desire to ask a question. You're welcome, Senator. Then you're Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz. [[Then Senator Augustine and Senator...]] Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President, for this report and for this very comprehensive report in writing. However, my question concerns such quite current cases. Some of the issues that you put in the report concern what you always write about, as well as the evaluation of the various laws that we have been dealing with, but new elements have also emerged, including. And that's what I'd like to ask you. The participation of citizens in recent assemblies, demonstrations. In my work as a senator and in my senator's office, I have recently met with increasingly frequent complaints of various kinds of organizations about repression directed against these organizations, and about participation in assemblies or demonstrations. These are often reported assemblies, but also spontaneous manifestations, and disturbing is, among others. that it is not only Article that applies. 52 offences code, i.e. an allegation of participation in an illegal assembly, but also e.g. charges of littering the street with wax or using a tube, that is, disrupting public order noise. These practices, which are now being applied, remind me, at least, of the times of the Polish People's Republic, when we received a call to the police under various pretenses. And what would I like to ask you? I'd like to ask you about some of these calls, in my opinion. wearing marks of harassment. I will give you such a very well-known example of your patron, and once, the senator, Anna Bogocka-Skowronska, who was called for a few hours of interrogation on the pretext of participating in the manifestation. There's more and more of these cases. As part of the Senate team, we will be dealing with this on 13 November, on Monday, but I would like to hear your answer today. I would like to ask you to comment on the scale of this phenomenon, whether you are also getting this type of information, or whether it is being reported to the Ombudsman. What should be done in this case? What options do we have to deal with such situations? This applies not only to older people such as Mrs Bogucka-Skowronska, but also, which is insanely inappropriate, cumbersome, e.g. 18-year-old drummer girls who were out there participating in some kind of manifestation and were called... [[Senator, thank you very much.]] Yes, I'm almost done, Mrs. Marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u5	Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u6	Mrs. Marshal, thank you very much. Well, after this report, you can see how much this function is needed in the country. It's obvious. As well as things that are growing... They're not just about this government, they're all about the government. Because what the Ombudsman is dealing with concerns citizens. I'm asking for a specific answer. The most appalling thing in the last few months was the case of Mr. Stachowiak, who was, well, actually murdered by the police. And from the press, we find out that these cops were neither punished nor subjected to any, I don't know, procedure. Some of them retired. How can a citizen demand justice in this matter? Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u7	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u8	Minister, I would like to raise two points. Firstly, I would like to thank you for your commitment on the part of the disabled and the elderly. In this context, I have a question about your attitude towards whether the UN Convention on the Rights of Elders should be prepared and whether work on it should be supported. Secondly, I would also like to remind you of your commitment to the cassation complaint you supported regarding the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. Because you, Mr Ombudsperson, were saying that this could be prosecuted before the courts, but, in fact, you are the one who owes us a breakthrough in this case and a favourable ruling by the NSA, which directly applies the Court's instructions, not the law. I would ask you to address this issue of failure to comply. Here's another thing... [[Mr. Senator, let me remind you of the time limit.]] Good. ...this is a matter of the consequences of your intervention as regards public media, which have gone into unfounded accusations against many NGOs... [[Mr. Senator, it's been a minute.]] What's going on with this case?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u9	Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u10	Thank you very much for your questions. As regards the law on conventions and situations which involve the organisation of demonstrations and demonstrations in Poland, I would like to draw a legal picture at the outset, because it is important for the assessment of the whole situation. The picture is that, on the one hand, the legislation on conventions in recent years has, in my opinion, undergone a kind of liberalisation, because we have not had spontaneous gatherings before. Now, basically, this regulation, what it looks like today, is in accordance with the convention law. But in the meantime, which was also the subject of the Senate's reflection, there was an institution of cyclical gatherings. Well, today we even have the tenth following month when another cyclical assembly under the law takes place. The institution of cyclical assemblies raised and, in my opinion, still raises constitutional doubts. In a sense, it has been legalized by the Constitutional Court's judgment, but we must be aware that it is difficult to speak of the independence of the Constitutional Court in this case, since judges have been held in the formation, who are often called under-the-mill judges. Why am I talking about this? Because for many people who decide to participate in the blockades it is not only a matter of blocking a cyclical assembly, but also an expression of a protest against the bill. The question arises as to how, if such a person is written down by the police, the police and the court will then approach it. Or on the basis that it is an expression of civil opposition to a law which they regard as contrary to the Constitution, or an act of civil disobedience to which we agree and therefore we are prepared to bear the penalty. This is an analytical difficulty for me also as an office of spokesperson, as in these cases concerning blockades to intervene effectively, because this discussion is, so to speak, two floors higher than at such a completely ordinary level. That's one thing. Second line. We're trying to monitor. .. these things come to us on a regular basis. How's it going? This is about the situation of participants in various spontaneous assemblies or assemblies, which are legal assemblies, overly legitimized by the police. Here again, I would've distinguished two situations. If we have a spontaneous assembly consisting of blocking the road and blocking the exit from the building, it is sometimes difficult to have good legal arguments or arguments relating to human rights. The only thing to think about then is whether the police are following the rules, that is, whether this blockade is terminated without violating the prohibition of inhuman and degrading treatment. If it's done in a way, I'd say decent, according to the best standards and as gently as possible, then... although it always looks dramatic, but it's hard to blame the police. What is the biggest problem is that there are various types of harassment, registration of participants in ordinary gatherings, questioning the right to spontaneous gatherings at a time when such consent has been obtained previously, or organizing gatherings in such a way that the demonstration is obscured and thus prevents the visibility of these demonstrators with those against whom they are present. I would like to assure you that we are addressing all these issues and are trying to explain in the course of correspondence whether it is with the Government Security Office The Office for Government Protection also deals with such matters It's with the police, isn't it? We direct appropriate interventions, pointing in some situations to violations of human rights standards. Calling the police. This is a situation where the application of selective seemingly neutral rules may give the impression that certain boundaries are being crossed. It seems to me that the figure of Ms. Bogucka-Skowronska is extremely symbolic here. It so happens that a few days ago, your patron and patron Jack Taylor were decorated by me with a badge of merit for protecting human rights, mainly because of what they did in the 1980s, defending political processes. Perhaps even here in the courtroom are the people your counsel defended. A situation in which participation in a demonstration is being questioned, asked for names, etc., is not a situation which meets human rights standards. Unfortunately, there are a lot of cases like this. My greatest concern is that the rules that are neutrally designed suddenly begin to be selectively applied. And all of a sudden, someone who's just loud during a demonstration violates the code of misdemeanor noise in public places, and someone who's at a demonstration and litters public space... Unfortunately, sometimes I get the feeling that it's mostly about harassment and it's about bringing the so-called. The freezing effect, i.e. through various types of police interventions, will lead different people to wonder twice whether they want to participate in such a demonstration. I would like to recall here one of the events which was the subject of a particular debate in Poland. It's about the demonstrations that took place on 16 December in connection with the seymous events. I would like to remind you that in January, at some point, the Police Headquarters on their website published images of people who participated in them. There was no legal basis for this. I have the impression that it was all about showing what the consequences could be for people who are taking part in all kinds of demonstrations. These are very serious things. I stress: I believe that the role of the Ombudsman is to monitor all of this. But it is also important to be aware that legal issues are not so clear here, especially as regards the issue of blockades, as well as the issue of civil disobedience, because there is often a certain willingness to bear responsibility with the act of civil disobedience. And it is responsibility that is a gesture of opposition to the fact that an act of civil disobedience has been carried out. I will now address the questions of Senator Fedorovich and the case of Mr Igor Stachowiak. There's a few lines here. First of all, the investigation is ongoing, which, hopefully, will end with the formulation of the indictment and the responsibility of those who have committed these acts. We all saw what they were all about. Unfortunately, I have concerns about whether the indictment, which will be formulated, will actually take into account all the circumstances, since the case has already been assessed by the Attorney General from the Seym Court, which was very detailed about the issues of Mr Igor Stachowiak's alleged contribution to his own death by using narcotic drugs. Here, unfortunately, the procurators' official authority over the Attorney General, at a time when the Attorney General is making far-reaching thesis, maybe it will affect the course of the investigation. We'll see. Anyway, the case is constantly monitored by me. Of course, there is also a question of disciplinary responsibility. There's a legislative problem here. I don't know if he's to be solved. We had a discussion at the office yesterday. The problem is that at a time when police officers who are responsible for certain actions... Could be, for example. A policeman who knew saw and didn't say or didn't take any action. If such a person decides to retire, there is no business relationship, and therefore there is no disciplinary responsibility. This could, of course, be changed by law, but it would be very difficult, because it would be necessary to extend the service relationship also for the period of retirement, i.e. to create a kind of resting state, as it would be for judges. For a judge or a prosecutor, it doesn't matter because he's at rest, but I don't know if the nature of the service would be consistent with these kinds of solutions. The solution that could be accepted is that it would not be possible to leave the service, e.g. until the end of disciplinary proceedings and for that period the benefit would be reduced accordingly. If this type of practice were introduced, perhaps it should be regulated by law. It is such cases that could be brought to an end. There would be no disgust on the part of society, that things are unclear, and everyone retires and has a problem with it. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] I would like to stress that the Igor Stachowiak case is not just a matter of criminal liability. It will also be a matter of civil liability at some point. This is a case that shows how important the independence of the courts is. Because if at some point Igor Stachowiak's parents start demanding compensation from the State Treasury, they will hope that the court will be independent in this case. But regardless of this case, I am not satisfied that general measures have not been taken. I mean, there's a reason I'm still talking about the right of access to a lawyer or counsel right after the arrest, because that would be one of the methods... And basically the only thing that's been done and what's positive is the introduction by the police. For now, it's a test, pilot duty to wear webcams on uniforms. Well, let's see what it looks like and if it actually works. As regards the question of Senator Augustine concerning the UN Convention on the Rights of the Elderly, there is a discussion at UN level, but also in Poland, about the creation of a convention that regulates the rights of the elderly. And in this case Poland can play a very important role. I would like to remind you that in the 1980s Poland launched a process which led to the creation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, an international document, an international agreement which refers to the entire catalogue of human rights to the special situation of children. The Convention on the Rights of the Child is an important document, an important agreement, extremely widespread and widely applied worldwide. And now the question arises as to whether Poland could not be such an international actor for the Convention on the Rights of Older People. I believe that Poland has something to say, an extraordinary legitimacy not only because of the history of the work on the Convention on the Rights of the Child, but also because we have different experiences: we have experience of systemic transformation, we have experience of breaking down generations and solidarity between generations, we have a lot of problems connected with the functioning of social assistance houses and other such places, of course the environment of seniors is growing in Poland... All of these, I would say, negative or semi-negative experiences, but also good practices are good starting materials to create a document that does not conform to Scandinavian standards, but one that will show how to help older people when they do not reach the budget and when it is extremely necessary to cooperate between authorities. So that's what I'm trying to do all the time, and I have a plan, and we're discussing the deadline right now... We are, you can say, after a word with Minister Adam Lipinski on how to hold a conference in February next year on this Convention on the Rights of the Elders. Thank you very much for your kind words about the NSA judgment on people with disabilities. Here the honors are more due to Director Lesław Nawatsky. Who's here, sitting there, in the back 'Cause he's the one who led to this precedent case. But I stress that one sentence doesn't change the state of things. The sentence causes that if there is an ambitious guardian of a person with a disability who gets this reduced benefit, he can start going through a judicial path, so he can start fighting his ILOS, he can go to court and get something. But there might be 10, 100, 200. But if we take into account the scale of thousands or tens of thousands of people who are covered by this regulation, we can see that there must be a statutory change here. We cannot leave the citizens alone on this principle: we have not executed the sentence, your case, you have to deal with the administrative courts alone now. But it's nice that the ombudsman led to a precedent. It's a light, but it's very tiny. And this must be a lamp that shines hard and which shows these people their right to be treated decently in the context of caring for those who are close to them and over whom these people are caring. I therefore warn you that this judgment must be enforced, because without this it is simply a situation in which we ignore the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, for which there is no doubt that they are appropriate. Finally, the last issue concerning public media. You know very well that the Ombudsman has addressed to the Constitutional Court a proposal for this first media law, a law which introduced the National Media Council and which has de facto omitted the powers of the National Radio and Television Council to appoint members of the boards and supervisory boards of radio and television. It is important that my application to the Constitutional Tribunal was recognised by the Court and the Constitutional Tribunal in its judgment of 13 December 2016 stated that this legal solution It is incompatible with the Constitution. Only that does not mean that this sentence was subsequently executed, that whoever considered how the functioning of public media should be adapted to the standards and competences of the National Radio and Television Council and how to limit the power of the National Media Council, so to speak. But these are, you can say, constitutional issues, and we know, in general, that there is some difficulty here in terms of functioning. The fact is, however, that once in a while, materials appear in public media, which may be harmful to representatives of various NGOs, as well as to different people. I have indeed undertaken interventions concerning a whole series of materials which were published in October and November 2016 and which concerned various NGOs. My intervention was that I sent appropriate inquiries to the National Council of Radio and Television and to the Polish Television. And here's what I'm gonna say: I can send it to you, of course. It is more important for the chronicler than for changing practice. So in a way, my intervention and my response, which wasn't particularly surprising, because television or the National Council didn't notice any big problems about these issues... Well, as I stress, it was probably more of a chronicle than it led to a change of standards in terms of the functioning of public media in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u11	Another round of questions. Mr. Senator Oremski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u12	I hope it's in the spirit of dialogue. I have two questions. On the one hand, I would like to thank you very much for raising the issue of odor or smell associated with some investments, because I have already met with judgments in which the court said that if this smell cannot be measured, it is difficult to decide About whether or not he's unbearable. On the other hand, I would like to point out that in the context of the investment we have as if... each stick has two ends. I mean, I'd like you to include the other side as well. The point is, often during the construction of bypasses That saves people from intense noise and smell of exhaust gas The villagers, a small town, a few croissants can hold off such investments for a very long time, using a little bit of legal shortcuts, and a little bit of the fact that the courts are not guided by material truth, but by certain literal records. And the effect is not only that the local government e.g. may not use money for an investment that has been allocated for a certain period of time, but also such that those who for many years have had enormous discomfort. So we need to find a balance here, and comparing ourselves to Western European countries is so embarrassing that such infrastructure was often created there in the 1960s or 1970s. The second question I want to ask you is about children in mixed marriages after divorce. I think we all have a lot of this kind of intervention. I tried to talk to my lawyers about it. They say that there is a problem, because first of all, judges often use arguments of the type: if the court in Germany or England, it is certainly right, and secondly, only the material dimension is compared, i.e. if the father earns in Germany 2 thousand marks and the mother in Poland 3,000 PLN, then it is known that the child will have three times better in Germany. And I'd ask you to look for some system solutions, maybe you need a statutory reinforcement... [[Mr. Senator, let me remind you of time, one minute.]] Good. ...The rights of the child of a Polish citizen to live in Poland and perhaps some education is needed, because I know that problems also arise from poor knowledge of foreign languages in conflict with courts in Western Europe.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u13	Thank you very much. Senator Napieralski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Spokesman, I have two questions. The first question concerns the language of hatred, intolerance, violations of human dignity. Did you notice, because that's what you were talking about in your speech, an increase in the frequency of such behavior, e.g. to children who are different in religion or have different skin colors, or to people who have different views, whether political or religious? Are there more of these behaviors of sexual intolerance, political intolerance, religious intolerance, and every other one of them, especially as regards the language of hatred? And second question. I'm going to continue a little bit on the subject raised by Senator Obremski. Recently, we've had Mrs. Jaworowicz's program recording this program by one of the rights defenders... Again, the discussion on child care and, in particular, the problems with regard to the care of children is on the rise. Is this still such a serious problem? Do legal dads lose in these court decisions, or has something improved in this case? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u15	Thank you very much. Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u16	Thank you very much. Mr Ombudsperson, first of all, before I ask you a question, I would like to express my appreciation for your commitment to all these issues which are linked to the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. We had the opportunity to participate together in the Third Congress of Persons with Disabilities, which you also co-organized. Every day, I have the opportunity to cooperate with Dr Krzysztof Kurowski in the parliamentary team I chair, and I am always grateful for his substantial contribution to our work. And here's the question. Which of all the issues covered by the Convention, which we have not yet settled in Poland, do you think is the most urgent thing to do? Or, for example, in the first place would you put the issue of incapacity, which also appeared very strongly at this 3rd congress? There was also a question of what I was a little surprised about, eugenic abortion, placed in the spirit that is close to me, that it is unconventional here, so to speak, to write down these exceptions. Which of these cases would you consider the most urgent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u17	Thank you very much. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u18	Thank you so much for the questions. As far as the issue of investment is concerned, I have the impression that in recent years, if we look at the last 10 years, we can see that there was an emphasis on the speed of investment. If we look at the 1990s, we can see that the fact that NGOs were actually blocking various investments was quite widespread. Parliament's response to this was the adoption of a whole series of specializations, i.e. road specifics. Specs have this to do with themselves, that they allow very fast implementation of the investment, because we enter the area, we enter private property, not waiting for us to expropriate it earlier. Thus, in a sense, it is decided by the governor that this investment can already be carried out and that the issue of negotiating the amount is left for a later stage. But there are quite a lot of people who are not particularly happy because this law has such strong influence and was also received a little recklessly, i.e. There was no deep debate in Parliament about it. There are even doctorates on how there are different investment disadvantages in this area. I agree that situations may arise when a particular investment may be held back. But this financial argument that we won't be able to use the funds, I wouldn't bet. It seems to me that this is a great task for the community to talk to the maximum, to use all forms of consultation, discussion, to convince it to achieve this effect. Unfortunately, I have the impression that often because of the ignorance of procedures and because citizens with different investments learn too late or when it is difficult for them to protest... For example, there is one such provision in this Environmental Consultation Act, which says that you can participate in them, but can participate in them a foundation that has existed for at least 12 months. And that's great, 'cause that's why it wasn't to set up a fast foundation that they'd block. Only, on the other hand, as we have those residents who suddenly realize that they have a problem, and would like to get together and protest, then the court later says: sorry, you are not doing business for 12 months and we cannot accept you as a party to the proceedings. So that's why I say these are things that require dialogue and reflection in different contexts and situations. As for the children after the divorces of mixed marriages, this is... You identify it well, of course, that's the problem. And this isn't just about situations, I'd say amicable, that is, situations where parents get divorced and worse or get along better about what happens later with the baby and how they're gonna take care of each other. There's often a background in these things that... It is the application of the Hague Convention, the issue of child abduction, the situation where one parent at the time of proceedings says that he knows better that the child should be with him and take them to Poland or the other way, taking the child to another country of the European Union. That's when all the procedures start that make it harder to solve the whole problem. And when there's a conflict, state institutions are doing worse. I would say that there is a light in the tunnel when it comes to solving this problem, because the Ministry of Justice has taken quite intense action, so to speak, strengthening the judges. In fact, special cells are being created to deal with cross-border disputes and issues in this area. I hope that if the law proposed by the Ministry of Justice is adopted, there will be some improvement in efficiency and coordination. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the revision of the law on the system of universal courts, which was adopted a few months ago, contains provisions on coordinators for international cooperation and human rights in civil and criminal matters. Such coordinators will be appointed by the Presidents of the courts at the level of each judicial district and will be tasked with providing substantive support to judges, assessors, assistants who deal with these international issues. This is a topic that I'm sure will be part of this congress that I announced during my speech. I don't think that's it. only the issue of efficiency and the question of relations between states, relations between courts, mutual recognition of judgments and judgments, but it is also a question of mentality, i.e. a specific preparation for the fact that we are living in a new reality. It seems to me that in Poland there is no such thought that, since we are joining the European Union, this is the moment from which we will begin not only to exercise the freedom of movement of people, but also... It's about thinking about what the consequences will be. In Poland, this debate is in such a way that we have, of course, adopted the rules on cooperation, but it is only after 10 years that we are beginning to wonder how they work, what is the scale here, what all of this requires commitment. As for Senator Napieralski's questions about the increase in the number of behaviors and the use of the language of hatred, unfortunately, there has been an increase here, both in terms of the Internet and in terms of the number of cases. The thing that affects us the most in the office... the things we're monitoring right now are dozens. These are cases of violence, racial hatred, ethnic hatred, hatred of origin. These are very specific things. These are matters both from Warsaw and from Lublin, and from Krakow, and from Poznań, and from Torun, and from Bydgoszcz, which are extremely sad and difficult to understand. How do you beat someone because of the color of their skin because they use a different language, they look different? And this is unfortunately our reality. Unfortunately, such matters appear quite regularly. They also apply to students, including Erasmus students. Some universities try to deal with this, they support these students, but I would say that there is no general condemnation for this type of situation from the government. In my opinion, when such situations occur and there is a clear increase in statistics, the scale of these phenomena, it cannot be said that these are only individual, individual and adventurous behaviours, one cannot miss this, one can say, trend and not act to counter this trend, and the countering of this awareness, prevention, high effectiveness of police activities and prosecutions, that is also anti-discrimination education. As for defending the rights of fathers, it just so happened that I had quite the same experience as your editor Jaworowicz with this gentleman, because some time ago we organized a press conference with the Child Rights Advocate, at which we summarized our actions on the problem of non-alination. We've done a lot about this. I'm glad, among other things. The Penal Code has been revised and there is a certain improvement in public policies in this area. This conference was canceled and it was recorded. In the same way as the editor Jaworowicz. I would like to stress that there are a lot of paternity associations. They're different, they're in them, I'd say. There are different levels of emotion and there are different ways of doing things. The last thing to do is to understand these associations just and exclusively through the prism of one of them, because some of them are very good conversations. Even next week, a conference will be held by the National Judicial Council and there will be representatives of one of these paternity associations, with which I also had a rather good substantive meeting. I think that we need to talk, we need to keep looking for solutions and listen to this voice and explain that if we are discussing, for example, alternate care, it should not be a postulate used on the principle of automatic, but we should consider how to... If we're talking about parental alienation, what is it all about and how to minimize its effects... Unfortunately, however, when fathers' rights are violated, they happen all the time. That's why I think we need this congress. As far as Senator Libicki's question is concerned, I believe that the congress that took place less than a month ago was a breakthrough. I mean. I think that he was groundbreaking because he not only identified problems, but he formulated a specific thesis, something that I would even say made assumptions for the bill, right? So he formulated the idea that it is necessary to fight for independent life for people with disabilities and that this fight for independent life means that different support systems need to be modified, including, for example, a modification or a complete reform of the case law system for people with disabilities. I think if it were to work... It wasn't just a thesis, it was just a thought I'd say. The package is ready when it comes to such innovative or innovative thinking about how to get out of the kind of pat we find ourselves in when it comes to the rights of people with disabilities. I would also point out that this is a demand for the whole environment... He didn't show up on the principle that one group had prepared something, and he's calling it, but this voice is getting more and more common. I would say that, regardless of the introduction of these solutions, this programme on independent life, it's involuntary... Abolish incapacity, replace incapacity by a system of assistance in decision-making, i.e. that if we have a person with an intellectual or mental disability, we adapt support for it and limitation of its rights to the type of disability, to the situation in which it is located. Let me put it this way: there was one moment a few years ago, when it was close, even Professor Radwański was convinced that this system had to be changed, but in our opinion no work has been going on for two years. We made a big appeal to the Prime Minister in this regard, but he didn't cause a reaction, so I'm going to repeat it here. On the basis that you have to repeat a certain thesis all the time It is now an absolute priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u19	Thank you very much. Another round of questions. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u20	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Spokesman, I have the following question. Do you not think that you should resign after your shameful and disgusting words concerning the Polish people? In my deep conviction, you embezzled yourself at this point in your vows. Well, you are a controversial person who, in my opinion, does not have the capacity to perform the function that you currently perform in the interests of all citizens of the Republic of Poland. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: This is a scandal.]] [[Scandal.]] [[But, Mr. Marshal...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u21	Calm down, please. Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u22	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm sorry, but the nonsense I just heard, I can't listen... But that's okay, apparently it has to be. There aren't many colleagues here, but there are senior senators who... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I have a question, because the terrible situation arose about this law, which was wrongly called "I don't know why." Dezubi... dezube... Well, in a word, it's about police pensions, for cops. This whole thing is awkward. There are times when people commit suicide. I can't understand... what more can we do to solve this social problem? Mr. Spokesman just said in his speech that the law should be changed in this matter. This is where some big social disaster begins. We're dating these people. In most cases, 95% are ordinary militiamen or just athletes or athletes. Their kids and their wives... Tell me what I'm supposed to do as a senator or what we as senators are supposed to do to change this disgraceful bill for a part of society.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u23	Thank you very much. It's hard to hear such an expression, Mr. Senator, but I listened calmly to it. So I appeal to my colleagues on the Platform... [[What was hard to hear in my speech?]] Well, defending Ubec pensions? It's hard to hear. Senator Duda, please. [[Mr. Marshal, you're in charge...]] [[Voice from the room: But what...]] [[I was talking about the militia.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The voice from the hall: But the police didn't take it...]] You're welcome, Senator Duda. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Leave me alone! Don't pay any attention to me! I'm my age!]] [[Then learn a little bit from history.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Duda, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u24	Mr Ombudsperson, in the context of your report, I would like to ask about the situation of people with Alzheimer's disease and the unfulfilled task arising from the European Parliament resolution of 2006 concerning national Alzheimer's plans, in this case the Polish Alzheimer's plan. Have you intervened in this regard, or will you intervene? I'd like to take this opportunity to ask you very much for your presence. The invitation has already come out. At the meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on this subject. I would like you to be able to address the question of why action is not being taken to resolve this problem, which is very important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u25	Thank you. I'm asking for answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u26	As for the first question, I don't think I should give up. I believe that my statement has been taken out of context. Moreover, as soon as I realized that she might have been misunderstood, I made an appropriate statement. Unfortunately, I regret it. Then it was shown in many places only and only this one sentence taken out of context. I would like to stress that my understanding of these matters is reflected in my commitment to the case of Mr. Charles Tendera's action against ZDF television, an engagement that has been going on for two years. If I could encourage you, I would like to say that there is a description on the Ombudsman's website, quite comprehensive, up-to-date developments in this case. There was a situation where the German court... Maybe it's different. The TV representative of ZDF tried to block the execution of the judgment of the Court of Appeal in Krakow, the judgment which ordered an apology to Mr.Karol Tendera, Auschwitz prisoner, for using the wording of the Polish concentration camp. As I said, the ZDF attorney tried to block its execution, but the last position of the district court in Koblenz actually encourages the attorney to withdraw the complaint at all and, however, to execute the judgment. Interestingly, TV ZDF filed a cassation complaint with the Supreme Court. She has a signature, so the case will probably be dealt with and the court will, of course, give the opinion that the sentence is as appropriate as possible to the law. I am pleased that the Court of Appeal in Krakow, after my accession to the case, has largely divided the argument that if we have... I just stress the importance of this intervention. Well, if we are dealing with a person who, because he has a strong connection with this case, because he was in Auschwitz, personally, individually comes to justice on the way to a lawsuit for the protection of personal property, then he has a procedural card. And the court ruled it out. I think it's... I'm glad I could contribute to that. As far as police pensions are concerned, as I said, a lot of complaints go to the Ombudsman's office, which can't really be classified unambiguously, as some politicians sometimes want. These are things that point to really big human misery. And now let's see what the possibilities are. One possibility to act is a request to the Constitutional Court, but these people, when writing to me, at the same time say: Mr. Ombudsman, please do not refer this to the Constitutional Court, because we are not sure that the Court will issue an independent ruling in such a case. The second option is waiting for the outcome of the European Court of Human Rights. There is no Senator Silence here, but I'm willing to bet that even people have been sent to him asking him to help file such a complaint. I know there's quite a lot of complaints. The third solution is, of course, the application of Article. 8a bill. This is, you can say, the decision of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. He may individually refuse to apply the law in specific cases, but I don't think there are yet, if I'm not mistaken, concrete decisions in these cases. Finally, the last road is a legal road in the sense of court proceedings. An appeal to the District Court in Warsaw may be appealed against the decision of the MMA Pension and Rent Plant. And that's what I'm afraid of. I have the impression that in a moment there will be a department in the District Court in Warsaw, which will be strengthened, but will still be clogged with these matters. There's been a project... There is a discussion on a draft law which was to extend the territorial jurisdiction of the courts to deal with these matters, but, as far as I know, this law has not been passed until today. I'm afraid we're gonna have to deal with one district court department that's gonna get a few thousand cases, maybe a dozen thousand cases after these decisions of the Home Office's Pension Office, and he's not gonna be able to handle them properly. Nevertheless, as a spokesman, I assume that I will act as a party in certain cases before a district court and demand respect for the rights of those persons. It seems to me that if we could politically lead to a change of this law and eliminate the biggest problems and the biggest mistakes from it, it would certainly be useful for these people. Therefore, it seems to me that the appeal for the amendment of the law will always be on the spot in this situation, although I am also aware of the emotions of the bill's adoption and how limited the Senate had the opportunity to discuss this law. I remember that in January 2017, this law was in a sense going into a package with the Budget Act, and therefore there were problems in order to have a discussion that aimed at making any amendments to it. As for the situation of Alzheimer's patients, this is a subject that... In your time, Professor. Lipowicz has prepared such a large, comprehensive report on how in Poland, one can say, does not protect people with Alzheimer's disease, but above all how their families are not supported. Because here, you can say, there are two fundamental factors. One factor is that it is necessary to treat these people properly at a time when they are going through a disease, and that means an appropriate DPS, an appropriate care and care facility that is tailored to the needs of such persons, and adequate daily care support. And it almost doesn't work in Poland. I mean, they're... I was in one DPS for people with Alzheimer's, in the DPS under the Siedlce. And for me, it was almost unbelievable that there might be a facility that is actually specialized. The head of that facility was telling us how people from Szczecin, from Jelenia Góra, turned to them to get a place in this specialized DPS. Yeah, but these specialized DPS we just have a few across the country with such great needs. The second point is the support of families, i.e. whether families know how to deal with a person or with a crisis that arises in the family as a result of a family member becoming sick with neurodegenerative diseases, how to help him, provide good support, provide him with care. But this is also about how to deal with life on your own. Because at a later stage there is a problem of respite care, which is simply not, practically speaking, available. On this subject, in September this year, a large conference was held in my office with the whole Alzheimer's community, including professors; among others. Prof. Parnowski participated in it. The conference was so successful that we managed to ensure that it was transmitted via the Internet in different places, in different DPSs and in different non-governmental organisations' centres. And in the places where it was broadcast, there were local discussions on it. Of course, I will try to appear at the family committee meeting, and I will be happy to talk about these issues. Here I would just like to say that we are very good at working with the Supreme Audit Office. We raise these issues from the point of view of human rights, and the Supreme Audit Chamber thanks to the fact that it has carried out comprehensive research, has concrete, hard data as it works in Poland. So that absolutely, if there is a chance to strengthen the National Alzheimer's Plan, pass on certain money, then it should be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u27	Another round of questions. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! The first question relates strictly to the report. Well, we are all appalled by the news connected with, let's call it generally, the treatment of people who have been handed over with property, with tenements, to those who illegally obtained property in Warsaw. The so-called procedure House cleaners, first of all, are out of the law at all, and second of all, they go beyond any humane standards. I'm sure you've received some complaints about that. He's not just one man with his case, but this is... There are tens of thousands of them. And I've been trying to find information about it in the report. I've come across... On page 348 is the protection of tenants' rights in immovable property returned to previous owners in the context of the reprivatization process. And there's a reference: The discussion in the chapter "Protection of property rights': "Reprivatisation'. I'm going to that chapter, but there's nothing there about protecting the tenants' rights, there's no numbers, there's no concrete, there's no reprivatization. The question is, weren't there any such calls for you? Shouldn't you be doing this, in quotes, out of office? Because these things are very shocking, also for the public. That's the first question. The second question came to me in connection with the discussion and with your answers to some issues. Well, you used the concept of double judges. Well, it's a newspaper concept, unfortunately offensive to the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, and you're the authority of the state. Should you be strengthening them or attacking them? [[Thank you...]] I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, but I'd like to be specific. With such statements, you are undermining the existing legal order. You're not being objective anymore, and it's acting against all appearances to the detriment of your office. Because if you're in political action, in a political dispute, and that's very clearly on one side, you're no longer objective, then all the decisions, all the interventions you're making, are no longer objective. In the eyes of the public, you're starting to stand on one side of the argument. And you should be impartial. [[That's not a question.]] [[Everything is political.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u29	Thank you. Mr. Senator Bonkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u30	Mr Ombudsperson, they have been coming to my office more and more recently and I have been approached by citizens who are concerned about what is happening in the media market in Poland, and are particularly concerned about this narrative of commercial televisions or Polish-speaking newspapers. They're concerned about this propaganda. I'll say this: worse than Goebbelsian, because it's a socio-technique aimed at subconsciousness, it's a subliminal message. It's so bad in Poland. And it just leads to tragedy because people who are emotionally... have emotional problems... Here I want to refer to an incident a few years ago, in Łódź, where a Mr. Cyba, a member of the Civil Collapse, killed Mark Rosiak and tried to kill some other people... [[Mr. Marshal, on behalf of the club, please intervene!]] [[You usually intervene like this... and you don't intervene here.]] Wait! Question... Don't interrupt me! [[There's no civic failure here!]] [[Calm down, please! Calm down, please!]] And now I want to refer to the last... [[Your party buddy said worse than that, and I didn't interrupt him. Calm down, please.]] ...to the last tragic event that took place next to a mace stuck in the heart of Poland, the gift of a traitorous union, where this gentleman... I feel sorry for him in a human way, I'll be honest, I feel sorry for him in a human way. People who come to my office say it's a good thing it was a man who just succumbed to this false narrative that he hurt himself... [[Mr. Senator, please formulate the question.]] And I say, "That's not good." Because I feel sorry for this man and his family. And I am afraid that if there is still such a narrative, there may be worse tragedies in Poland, because people who have emotional problems can wake up and someone can, for example, fasten their shahid belt and make worse tragedies. And I have a question for you, Mr. Ombudsman, do you see that? Do you feel that? Did you ask the media not to use such... [[Thank you...]] ...social engineering? [[Thank you very much. Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka...]] And did you condemn it, like you said now... Because you were talking about whether the government condemned these alleged persecutions of foreigners, which, according to you, are the norm in Poland. And what you said is just disgraceful. [[Oh, yeah. Hit the German.]] [[Thank you. Miss...]] There is no norm in Poland for us to... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...they had some...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u31	Let me remind you of the time limit. Senator Barbara Boris-Damian.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u32	Thank you. At the beginning of your speech, you raised the problem of free legal assistance that citizens can benefit from. That's what I'm talking about. I receive quite a lot of interventions concerning the fact that there are not very good law firms, which are obliged to provide this free help, and not only in Warsaw, because I have such signals also from other cities of Poland. This is the kind of intervention that citizens turn to. I would just like to ask, first of all, is there an authority that is obliged to control the functioning and activities of the firm which are obliged to provide free assistance? And does he use this ability to control, check how these firms operate, benefit? That's one question. Second question. Who is obliged to promote knowledge of where these firms are located, what are their addresses, and to what extent can they provide this legal assistance? I'm asking because the interventioners are complaining that they can't actually find that information anywhere. I didn't go on the Ombudsman's website and I'm not sure that your website under the motto "free legal assistance" has information on it. It's not necessarily addressable, because I understand that you can't put the addresses of a law firm from all over Poland. What is the role, what is the task of those involved in free legal assistance and how... [[Mrs. Senator...]] ...when citizens can benefit from it. I'm talking about a period because I have information as part of some interventions, for example. There's a huge number of applications, so it's an awful lengthening time for the admission of a patent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u33	Thank you. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u34	Thank you very much. First topic, question: Does the Ombudsman's office deal with matters of tenants? It seems to me that this judgment of the Constitutional Court, which I was talking about, is a testimony that this occupation is extremely effective, because it has been a problem unsolved for years and a lot of people living in these resort apartments, so-called. The uniforms were affected by it. We are regularly approached by those who ask us to deal with the case, to intervene, to take action. We answer about 50 and 60 complaints each month. We usually try to provide comprehensive legal information with an indication of what can be done in a given situation. Here in the Chamber is the director of Kamilla Dołowska, who is the head of the Civil Law Team and in this Civil Law Team is among others. Five people who do exclusively, you can say, housing law. So that these are not foreign topics for employees of the Ombudsman's office. Here, too, it's worth mentioning that you're the prof. Lipowicz led to the fact that construction laws and criminal code rules defined strict criminal liability in situations of abuse of property rights by tenement owners. I do now. As far as specific issues are concerned, e.g. In Poznań we joined the case of a 98-year-old lady who was, you might say, thrown out of the apartment. We have managed to bring about a very precedent for the court's ruling that such a situation, in which this cleaner can be said to be a violation of such practices, may also constitute a violation of personal property. This is, I think, a very important issue that can help in the future. I also try to cooperate with the Social Justice Office led by Piotr Ikonowicz. We also have an expert committee in the office. Against Homelessness and in this respect We take quite a lot of action. I would like to point out that, regardless of the actions concerning specifically the rights of tenants, what needs to be done in Poland is the adoption of a reprivatization law. If this bill doesn't exist, we'll be dealing with these kinds of problems all the time. In my opinion, this idea, which was recently presented by Minister Jaki, is going in the right direction, the idea is to write all this down, to close the topic in some sense and to think about reducing claims, perhaps extending the funding period for these claims by issuing either re-privatization vouchers or State Treasury bonds. About this idea I presented to the Prime Minister more than a year ago, and I am glad that now it has taken a slightly different form, you can say, it has become colourful. We will see if it will actually be determined whether this is just a project that has been announced, but there is not enough political support for it to be adopted. I believe that my role as ombudsman is absolutely to strengthen citizens. At the same time, I would like to stress with all my power that I swore on the Constitution, on the Constitution which is in force in Poland, and for as long as this Constitution is being violated, as long as it is violated, as long as solutions are introduced, which constitute circumvention of constitutional regulations by means of laws, and this was the case, among others. I will protest against political control of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is not a question of my approach or of my view as a supposedly objective person, it is only a matter of attachment to the values that are extremely close to me and which I will guard, because I swore so. [[Applause]] [[Platformers!]] About the emotional question... I had one big appeal that I think I would like to repeat. I called first and foremost on politicians to silence emotions, to talk, to dialogue, not to spin this spiral. [[It's Polish media.]] I would like to stress that this is not just about politicians, and journalists are also involved in the process of transmitting certain information. As an ombudsman, I also sometimes fall victim to these emotions, because my address is also directed by quite imprudent statements, which I do not wish to quote. It seems to me that regardless of... if we were all acting in a spirit of mutual respect, if we were going to solve problems, if we respected the constitution, we would definitely be in a completely different place. In Poland, many political projects could be implemented if the constitution was fully respected. As far as the legal aid question is concerned... If there is an incorrect provision of legal assistance, of course, the authorities that should intervene on an ongoing basis are lawyers' councils, district chambers of legal counsels, as well as disciplinary advocates. The key is to do the right thing, because that's what it's based on. Since we entrust professional legal assistance to those who are trained in this area and who have appropriate professional rights... They have professional responsibility. It would be difficult to supervise everything from the central level. Under the law, a Council for Legal Assistance was set up, a ministerial council at the Minister of Justice, but I fear that it deals with general topics, i.e. how to construct... how the whole system works, not the day-to-day supervision, I would say, the quality of the assistance provided. On our website there are all references to institutions that provide legal assistance. As I recall, the comprehensive legal aid map is on the Ministry of Justice website and there you can find all the details. I wish I could. This will be of great use to you and to the citizens... On our website there is a very interesting informant regarding the citizen's infolines. Many of the problems that citizens face are not legal aid problems, but problems where they need to talk, explain something. These are very specific problems, because they affect people with addictions, people with HIV/AIDS, people with disabilities, teenagers, etc. There's an informant on our website about all the hotlines. We've grouped information on all the hotlines there, and we're trying to... We have created a coalition here and we are trying to support each other when it comes to providing the right information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u35	Another round of questions. Senator Mikołajczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u36	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Ombudsperson, I would like to ask you about the action organised by the association you are co-founder of, the association of them. Professor Zbigniew Holdy, about the constitutional lesson under your patronage. I have three questions. First of all, is this action somehow coordinated by the Ministry of National Education? Secondly, who finances the work of those 500 lawyers you're writing about as part of this action? And thirdly, is there a specific scenario and a list of contents that will be discussed and discussed in these lessons? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u37	Thank you. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u38	Thank you very much. I would like to ask about the financial situation of the Ombudsman's Office. I know you've been asking for more funding for next year. I'm very anxious to see some of these... I hope it's just the media... This is about the fact that the Ombudsman's field offices are at risk. I would like to draw your attention to the importance of these field troops, how important... I'm from Wroclaw. For years we have been observing the work of the Ombudsman's Office in our city and it would be very bad if the local offices were liquidated. Second thing. I regret that a state which can afford very high increases in the IPN, which can afford to spend 1 billion on lying public television, refuses... is not interested in improving the situation of the Ombudsman's staff. I'd like you to tell me what this situation is like right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u39	Thank you. Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Minister, three questions. The first one concerns I'm sorry. sick people are being kept in prison all the time. Recently, we had an example of a person with autism in prison, even though family and doctors were trying very hard to ensure that this person could respond with free feet and receive medical attention. Is that... 'Cause you're writing here about putting them in jail. We also know this example of Koszalinski, he will stay in memory for a long time. Therefore, is this situation improving or not? What are the forecasts for the future? Because it must be very disturbing. Second question. I mean Igor Stachowiak. After all, despite the promises we have recently learned, unfortunately, that practically no one's hair fell off their head. The chief spokesperson said that the rules prevent the full settlement of the chiefs, because this is particularly true for them, those who have supervised; some of them are already getting a pretty good pension. Mr. Spokesman explained that those are the rules. Tell me... If there are such rules, I think we can all agree here with our colleagues at the PiS that we can draw up laws that will eliminate such people from our lives. I don't think we should pay people who take care of ordinary killers, we can't afford to pay them that kind of pension. And as far as house cleaners are concerned, I would just like to remind you that in the previous term, Senator Rulewski was the inventor of a pretty good bill that limited the ability of these cleaners to exploit their rights and that significantly limited... However, I absolutely agree that without the reprivatization bill, we will still be in trouble. However, we have limited their freedom in terms of firing tenants and restricting their rights. Mr. Marshal, may I speak again, or may I speak in the next round? [[Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan: Maybe next.]] Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u41	There were three questions. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u42	Thank you so much for the questions. As for Senator Mikołajczyk's question, this is the fourth edition of the project called Constitutional Week. The project is organized by the Association im. Prof. Zbigniew Holdy, this is an association of over 100 lawyers. In fact, the whole idea of this project is to combine the work, the knowledge of lawyers who volunteerly participate in this project, with some interest in schools in how the constitution is applied in practice. In fact, when it comes to funding, there is no external grant here, as far as I know, because all those who apply are conducting these lessons for free, and even at their own expense they go to different parts of Poland and there they lead these classes. The project is not implemented in cooperation with the Ministry of National Education, but on the basis of such, one can say, a bottom-up initiative. If the school's interested, then those lawyers are in it. In short, classes consist of discussing specific cases, issues that are previously prepared, showing various problems related to the interpretation of the Constitution, whether by the Constitutional Tribunal or by common courts, depending on the case. As a matter of fact, I was in high school last night as part of this project. Konopnicka. We discussed there, among others. about one kazuse about spontaneous gatherings and one kazuzu... It was a story that once ended with a judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. And among others. We discussed such an idea, which was once also the Court's judgment on this subject. In particular, it concerns the introduction of a fee for studying in the second direction of study. It seems to me that the students were quite pleased that someone had told them what this constitutional analysis was all about in practice and that there were different values. And I have the impression that with each edition, the number of schools that participate in this project is growing. As far as budgetary issues are concerned, the Ombudsman's budget is about PLN 37 million. In fact, we applied for an increase of about PLN 5 million this financial year, which was connected with the fact that we had to complete or continue the renovation of the historic building, we had to increase the salaries of the employees a little bit, and there was also an idea to create a field office in Bialystok. Moreover, it was an idea which was notified by Mr Matusiewicz himself at one of the committee meetings that dealt with the evaluation of the Ombudsman's activities. Well, since there was an idea that a spokesman's field office on the east wall could be useful, I thought it was worth proposing in the draft budget. However, as the Committee on Justice and Human Rights has already assessed the budget, I have been extorted for this. And now we are at such a stage that the Committee on Justice and Human Rights has given a negative opinion on the draft budget. I think we were the only institution whose draft budget for next year the committee has given a negative opinion. Next week will be the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, which will discuss this issue. I'm going to make the same argument. I would like to point out that actually employees of the Ombudsman's office, if for example. compare the quality of their work, their involvement, their material preparation with others, should be rewarded at the level, I believe, of the Attorney General, possibly at the level of the official staff of the Supreme Court. Well, these salaries are much lower, which makes people just walk away from the spokesperson's office, especially those whose expertise is extremely valuable. Well, if someone's been doing it for years, for example. discussing all these complaints about investments, bypasses, farms and all the topics that are topics on the confluence of civil law and property management, it has extraordinary, powerful knowledge. It is very difficult to replace such people later. But unfortunately, such people from the office of the spokesperson from these e.g. The reasons go away. So that I hope that the Committee on Public Finance will give a positive opinion, it will adopt this budget, which was proposed by the Ombudsman's office, regardless of the opinion of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. I would also like to stress that in all international recommendations, whether the recommendations of the UN Human Rights Committee, or in recommendations on how equality bodies should function, or in recommendations relating to the functioning of the national mechanism for preventing inhumane and degrading treatment, there are still references to this particular situation that the Ombudsman's budget should be in line with the tasks set out. Unfortunately, in practice, discussion on this issue is extremely difficult. I regret that, in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, this discussion was hardly substantive, and I could not even respond to the various allegations raised by Members and explain certain issues at all. So that I am counting on the Public Finance Commission, whose meeting will be next week, November 15th. Senator Shark's question about the situation of the sick in prison. It's just that we and we did a record exam, and we met with all the people with intellectual and mental disabilities that we've identified and who are in custody and in prisons. And the effect of that is... I, when I was in the Senate before, promised, said that there was a publication of people with intellectual or mental disabilities embedded in penitentiary units, taking into account the results of research carried out by the RPO staff. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a monograph of over 300 pages, an analysis from every possible angle of why this problem occurred, which shows what needs to be improved, what direction to go. But this is a publication that also shows that such problems... that it is not enough just to snap and say that they will be eliminated, because their elimination requires a very large involvement of various state institutions. This publication also documents a number of different speeches and actions which the Ombudsman has undertaken in this context. So I'm hoping this situation will improve. And Mr. Julian's case. Because he was the one who was mentioned, this is a public matter known to the public, this is a matter that would require involvement at the highest level at this stage, because this person should not be in custody right now, only this person should be in hospital and should have adequate health support, and it will not be in custody. We investigated this case in every possible way, and that was the recommendation, and that was the content of my letter to the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General. So that I'm counting on this story to clear up. However, it also shows that despite various actions of this kind, stories can repeat themselves. As for Mr. Igor Stachowiak, we discussed it here. It seems to me that considering such a solution cannot be reduced until disciplinary action is completed, and for the duration of disciplinary proceedings, we are reducing the remuneration accordingly, because it is difficult for people in such situations to lose their pay... That could be the solution. But our discussions also showed that perhaps this is also a matter of practice, because the fact is that retirement depends on the superior's decision. If there are superiors who do not agree to it and postpone it in time Because they have time, according to the regulations, to put it away. It is then possible to speed up these procedures and end them before they retire. That's possible, too. We will certainly examine this in the context of this case. However, I point out that the main responsibility in this matter is not disciplinary responsibility, it is criminal responsibility. This is a crime case, and some people have been charged with it. I'm sorry. Once again, I would like to stress this. That there were no charges of torture, because there is no such crime in the criminal code, only charges of abuse of rights and abuse of a deprived person were made. It's supposed to be the same thing, but it's not the same thing. The words are here, and it's what we call things, and it's what we call these things by name. Thank you. [[Your name was.]] [[Ad vocem...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u43	Excuse me. Mr. Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u44	Mr. Ombudsperson, first of all, a reflection on the short-circuits that have just taken place. Goebbels is synonymous with party propaganda and state propaganda, Mr. Senator Bonkowski, and it would be a good thing if you knew that, you wouldn't be talking nonsense. And dezubekization makes the same sense today as fighting the Inquisition. You can be ridiculed, of course, but this is a tragedy when you do it on behalf of the states. Mr Ombudsperson, by listening to your reports, colorful, interesting, I wish you that your reports were boring. Because the dull report of the Ombudsman is a testimony to the integrity of the state. Unfortunately, for now we have a colourful and interesting report from you. However, I would like to ask about the situation of people who are fired for this good change in a wholesale manner, when without notice, they are deprived of their jobs. Such situations are in the Agricultural Property Agency, in the Customs Service in the creation of the National Tax Administration. This will probably be the case when the Supreme Court Act comes back in the case of the administrative staff of the court. Do you, as a spokesman, see the problem of these people? That's a few thousand people. What are your actions to ensure that the rights of these people are respected? Workers' rights and codes in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u45	Senator Napieralski. [[Ad vocem.]] [[Bonkowski wants to take the floor about...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Spokesman, I am very sorry, and I feel bad that once in a while in this Chamber you meet with a behavior that shouldn't have happened in this Chamber. But, as you well know, In particular, after the statements made by the Member State Senator If there are no arguments, and in particular knowledge, there is aggression, unwise speech, and a violent attack on a person. You retain the culture and the substantive attitude in all of this, for which I thank you very warmly, because this should be the attitude of the Ombudsman. The same was true of Senator Fedorovich's statement. Looking at his chart and his past, especially his parents' stalking... [[Mr. Marshal, how about a question? Is this a debate?]] The attack on Senator Fedorovich that he defends ubeks or someone is really unreliable, untrue, all the more so... He's showing us today what kind of... [[Mr. Senator, please proceed to the questioning.]] I'm asking the question. All the more reason to show that... [[Get to the point, Senator. Please proceed to the questioning.]] But I still have a moment, so I can talk quietly. And I'll ask you a question, yes. [[But to the point. On the basis of the regulations, I would like to draw your attention to asking questions.]] But I'm doing an introduction to that question. And this shows, Mr Marshal, that, regardless of our history or origin, we can stand above all else and defend civil rights, human rights and, above all, respect the Constitution. And I'd like to ask you a question right now. I had a bit of a problem, because the marshal made it impossible for me to return to this law, called debubbishing or otherwise, because it would also happen in diplomacy. What steps do you want to take? Because, in fact, people who are dishonest or people who act unworthyly towards another person must be punished... [[Mr. Senator, it's been a minute.]] ...but there are people who work honestly or work for the Republic. What do you want to do, what kind of interventions do you want to take to defend...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u47	Thank you very much. Senator Oremski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u48	I would like to point out that even if Mr. Spokesman made a mistake in saying something, For many of us such a mistake actually occurred, for some even gross However, this quickly responded and apologized, which, as we must note, is slightly above the average standard of a few kilometres from our parliament. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to what Mr. Czerwinski said. I understand your argument about the Constitutional Court, although I do not share these views. However, I do not believe that the return of the judges' doubles does not serve dialogue through excessive newspaperism. That's all. And now the question. Under the motto of the fight against terrorism in many countries of the European Union, governments limit freedoms, e.g. the right to demonstrate. You're on the case, too. At the same time, those who oppose this demand a legal fight against the so-called. A hate speech. This is a very sensitive matter: how much hate speech can the fight against hate be a restriction on freedom of speech, where is this limit? And as part of an unfashionable symmetry, I'd like to ask your spokesperson if you think blasphemy is or might be... [[Mr. Senator, it's been a minute...]] ...a speech of hatred or at least a sign of symbolic violence.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u49	Thank you very much. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u50	Thank you so much for the questions. The first point is, it can be said, a new reform scheme in the state institutions, which is a new scheme, namely that the statutory provision bans labour relations and provides in the laws that new conditions will be proposed to those who are employed in the institution. So the law goes in a certain way automatically... These include specific groups of employees employed in different offices and public administrations. The Agricultural Property Agency... There was this reform of the Customs Service, the establishment of the National Tax Administration (NRS) is a second example. The reform of the Constitutional Tribunal was also carried out in this way. Finally, the Law on the National Judicial Council and the Law on the Supreme Court adopted by the Sejm here in this House provided for such a scheme. I don't know if you remember, I then, when I was discussing the Supreme Court Act, I said that we might have to deal with, say, the assistant judge who is pregnant and who will not be protected after the Supreme Court Act enters into force at all. Because these are solutions that do not take into account such special circumstances. But the question arises as to whether, in this way, without employee guarantees, reforms of any public institution should be carried out. And what kind of relationship between the state and the citizen, a civil servant, will develop when such methods are adopted. My response to these problems is that every time we try to say at the legislative stage that this will lead to an opinion which shows that such solutions are incompatible with respect for constitutional guarantees, particularly the principle of equal access to public service, because it is not usually not only that people with a particular category of employment are protected, such as pregnant persons, but also that there are no criteria for the conditions under which these persons will be employed by the newly appointed service. Of course, speaking is one thing, and legal practice is another. But such cases result in a lack of consent from those who have been affected. These people have no place to turn later and are just turning to the ombudsman. I think that most customs officers who have been covered by the law and who are unable to agree, because for various reasons they have not been offered employment, are addressing us. Some take action themselves and ask us to join the proceedings. As long as my memory is correct, I think we've already joined three customs procedures. My friends are nodding around here, confirming that they are. As far as the Constitutional Tribunal is concerned, we have entered several proceedings before the labour court which concerned redundant workers. I believe that this is precisely the situation in which the courts will face a great challenge in order to apply the constitution directly. So they will have to protect citizens and they will have to claim that the provisions of the law which provide for the termination of employment relationships are incompatible either with the European Convention on Human Rights, namely the ratified international agreement, which has a higher status in the hierarchy of legal sources than the law or with the constitution. I hope that there may be a case law which will make these people feel that they have been treated fairly, that they have had access to appropriate legal means. When are these things gonna end? I don't know. The problem here is that I am not convinced that the Constitutional Tribunal would be a remedy for problems in these cases. Moreover, the case concerning my application for the Constitutional Court Act, in which I raised this problem, was found negative a month ago. I applied to dismiss the judges, raising the old Roman parody that no one could be a judge in their own case. My motion has not been accepted. The sentence is what it is. The rapporteur was Mr Muszyński. In the Court's view, everything is in line with the Constitution, including as regards the status of the members of the Constitutional Tribunal themselves. It seems to me that, when it comes to the future, unfortunately, we must protest against such a method. The reform of state bodies, of any kind, cannot take place in such a way that there is no continuation of employment, but everything is cut at the time of the entry into force of the law and employment is proposed again. This leaves certain persons without sufficient worker protection and is incompatible with constitutional values which assume that work is under special protection of the Republic of Poland and also with the value of equal access to public service. As regards the issue of the Repressive Act of 16 December 2016, I believe that this is a law under which, as I said, collective responsibility is applied. One of its drawbacks is that there is no shading in it, there is no reflection, there is no analysis of a particular case of a particular person in a particular situation in terms of whether this person should actually be covered by the law. The cases of individual groups of persons who address the Ombudsman are an example of such an approach. I'd also like to point out something that's dangerous. Such a method may be applied to other professions or other persons who performed public functions and who had some connection with the previous system. It could be a diplomatic issue, it could be a prosecutor's issue, it could be a matter of judges and verifying their... Well, it's not even about verifying them in this way, it's about adopting general solutions. Unfortunately, here is the opening of a window to solve specific issues by means of methods that do not have much to do with the protection of individual rights and freedoms, because the protection of individual rights and freedoms assumes that each person is treated individually. We cannot apply collective responsibility in such situations, especially if we are a democratic legal state. Thank you for the attention of Senator Oremski, but as regards the relationship between freedom of speech and speech of hatred, I am of the opinion that some social groups which are traditionally discriminated against are not sufficiently protected. It seems to me that, nevertheless, the scope of the protection resulting from the provisions of the Article should be extended. 256 and Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council 257 criminal code. I believe that in such situations a great deal depends on the quality of work and the prosecution's office, and on how these cases are assessed. Even if we moved on to the second topic, to the relationship of art. 196 and Art. 197 criminal code, namely disturbing religious celebrations and images of religious sentiments and freedom of speech, it would be evident if we looked at from the perspective of the court's time that the courts were able to deal with these matters, especially with regard to the article. 196, for in my opinion we did not have situations where the courts would overstep the sphere of freedom of speech and not protect other values. Well, this is such a special situation. If we have a prosecutor's office and courts that actively apply the standards of the European Court of Human Rights, if we employ art historians, theologians, people who know each other and we analyse the facts properly, then we are able to deal with the relationship between what is blasphemy. or an insult to religious feelings and what constitutes freedom of speech. Whatever's connected... Well, the concept of hate speech is, of course, abused in Poland, because lately even statements about politicians are regarded as hate speech. That's not what this is all about, because it's about hate that it has to have a specific social group in the background, for which certain words are used because of the attributes or stereotyping of this group. But let's remember, too. And that comes from our research. Sometimes this hate speech is affected not only by minority groups but also by majority groups. When we are dealing with a situation of great tension between Roman Catholic believers and, say, anticlerical persons, these anticlerical people also use strong concepts, which are not so much insulted by religious feelings as by art. 256, which includes a call to hatred because of religion or unrepentantness. We must remember that happily we do not have such a problem with this. We are happy not to have religious violence, but not only because of the need to protect the values of other people's rights, religious feelings, freedom of conscience and religion, but also to control public policy. If we go to different countries, unfortunately we will see that religious violence, physical violence, I mean it. It's where he's performing. And in this situation, this protection of public policy also becomes a special value in terms of the functioning of the whole state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u51	Thank you. Another round. Senator Fedorovich. [[Ad vocem, Mr. Marshal.]] I've booked the senator to ask you a question in the next round. [[No, I don't have a question. I just wanted to ad vocem...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u52	Mr. Marshal, if I cross 20 seconds... I want you to measure my time, because I don't want to prolong it. First of all, I don't blame you for reacting like that. I'm just trying to explain that I wasn't talking about bugs at all. I was talking about the people I worked with, and I worked with skinheads, punks, kids, people in juvie houses, prisons. These people were mostly my age. They were militiamen, former prison guards, etc. I'm defending those people who have been wronged. You probably know my resume, and you know I'd be the last man to defend the ubeks. And now I have a question. Because soon I will present a letter from the most outstanding Polish professors concerning the language of politicians. When this letter is ready, I will present it to the marshal, because he will be addressed to the Senate. I'd like to know where there's a line that someone who's hating me can go to. When I get information on my web pages that I'm an angry carcass and I should die... Where's the border, the moment I can plead criminal liability? That's all I'm saying, because of course I don't read this hat anymore, but I remind you that it concerns all of us. [[The voice from the room: I get the same thing.]] Well, that's right, so the senator's about to find out. [[Senator, 1 minute 20 seconds.]] [[Voice from the room: A clear example.]] I'm done.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u53	Thank you. Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u54	Thank you very much. Mr. Ombudsman, I'm going to go back to my previous question, which is the Third Congress of Persons with Disabilities. There really was a large part of the discussion, which was a surprise to me, because more than I expected, it took up the issue of eugenic conditions to perform abortion. I mean, a lot of people pointed to my surprise, but I share it. That this condition is contrary to the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. To be honest, I was, as I say, positively surprised because I share that view. I would like to ask you: what is your attitude towards this issue, do you really believe that this is a condition contrary to the UN Convention or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! I admit that I am disappointed because I thought you would give me specific answers about how you defended the rights of tenants evicted and plucked by tenants, and I only got one information about Poznań, was the reference to Mr Ikonowicz, Prof. Lipowicz. I would like to know not how you deserved Professor Lipowicz, but how Adam Bodnar deserved to protect these rights. That's the first line. The second equally serious issue concerns the bias that I believe you have in mind. It shows, and it shows, too much activity in terms of political life. You have added one more thing to this, namely you will usurp the right to judge what is constitutional and what is not constitutional. You have no responsibility, no authority, no authority. And you're slowly entering the level of about the President of Warsaw. I don't know if that's the right direction, because at the end there are celebrities, each of whom explains to us on TV, which is constitutional, right? [[Mr. Marshal, it's been 1 minute and 30 seconds.]] And I'm going to ask you one specific question. Mr Ombudsperson, do you wish to extend the rights of national minorities who emigrated from Ukraine to us, such rights as those of indigenous Ukrainians, who are few in the Republic of Poland, among others. rights in the field of language teaching... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...Ukrainian children of these people, but according to... [[Mr. Senator, it's almost two minutes.]] ...with a national declaration, which includes teaching history and geography?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u57	Thank you very much. I'm asking for answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u58	Thank you very much. I think that when it comes to the phenomenon of a hat, which concerns people performing public functions, it affects everyone, without exception. And I agree that, in particular, the availability of the Internet and the means by which specific positions, comments can be made, is clearly conducive to this. I'm trying to do things. We have some cooperation and with web portals, and with non-governmental organisations, so that, you can say, reduce the phenomenon itself. However, this is extremely difficult. Because it is both a matter of improving the availability of legal means, such as identifying the perpetrators of this type of heir, i.e. those who direct these statements, as well as a matter of specific determination to carry out such cases later by the courts, and changing certain practices. Paradoxical may seem what I'm about to say. I don't know if you know that. In my opinion, the person who has made an extremely important contribution to dealing with this in legal terms is Roman Giertych's patron. He was the one who brought the Supreme Court to its conclusion, in which the Supreme Court said that responsibility for the hat, which is on the website... This is not just a relationship between the person who puts this hat and the victim, because here is the responsibility of the Internet portal. And that changes the form of things, because when a commentary appears on the web portal, e.g. about the state as politicians and there's a sea of heytu, and the portal does nothing about it... This opens the way for you to take appropriate action against the portal, not to play with identifying hundreds of Internet users by name, which, of course, can always be done. The prosecution should be helpful in this regard because it has the appropriate procedures to act in these situations. The question is, how far can this hat go? It seems that this standard, which was established long ago in the Lingens case against Austria and subsequent, i.e. that the politician must have thick skin, is the standard that is still in force. I would like to stress that this standard has been formulated in a very specific context. It is a very strong statement on a policy, to call it a public idiot in the context of certain political events. The public debate, which is sometimes characterised by the fact that we all go... I don't care, but politicians of different options use different far-reaching wordings. Of course, we must accept a certain level of criticism, but this should not take place in complete isolation from the substantive activities. A criticism that only serves to humiliate, humiliate and insult a person... I can't find a justification for the words "paddle" in relation to... or for saying "you should hang." After all, such expressions appear in public space. When a line is crossed so much that... it's kind of obvious that this criticism isn't justified by any part of the facts, it only serves to humiliate and humiliate the other person, to show contempt for it. It seems to me that in such situations, space is opening up, including for politicians, where protection of a good name can be taken care of. I respect, if I may, the use of defamation. 212 Criminal Code Because then we enter a completely different zone: should we actually put people on the bench of the accused, or should we protect personal goods, because this is the way that is right? About the senator's question... This is a very serious problem, this is the most important problem that we are dealing with in the office, because we know that a request has been made to the Constitutional Court and that there is a deadline for determining what the Ombudsman's position is. To be honest, I see arguments and one and the other, but I haven't decided what to do about it yet. I'd rather not be so sensitive at this point. I hope the senator as a gentleman will respect that and give me a chance to... As far as the protection of tenants' rights is concerned, it's really... It's hard to believe you're not a camel. We're really dealing with these issues. I'd hate to see Principal Dołowska sitting there saying we don't do anything. She's the person who regularly participates in all these cases in the office. Cooperation with Mr Ikonowicz is not cooperation on the basis that we have met. He organized a big meeting at the office one day. There are probably 60 people who are being wronged in various ways and who are demanding protection of their rights. Now maybe I'll talk about a few extra points about what's to be solved. Ladies and gentlemen, I have recently had people who own housing books who say this: we applied to the Constitutional Tribunal in 2015, signed by Members of the Law and Justice, and then discounted the work of the Sejm. The term of office of the Sejm was interrupted and therefore the application to the Constitutional Tribunal was discounted. And they say, "We have housing books, we could solve our housing problems." Nobody wants to talk to us. Mr. Spokesman, help! And I'm saying that since the Law and Justice that he is currently ruling has declared that he will take the case, maybe it will help. They say he doesn't really want to help right now. For me, it's a challenge about how to convince someone that it's a problem to solve. I'll tell you more. A homeless lodger comes into my office and says this: Mr. Spokesperson, I have an apartment book, and I would like to receive a guarantee bonus, which is this $7,8,000, but in order to do this, I have to at least renovate a place, and I don't have a chance to renovate a place like this. We are making correspondence with the Ministry of Infrastructure and suggest that, as the programme will already be implemented, these people should have priority. Another issue is eviction to temporary premises. Living in temporary spaces is actually a step towards homelessness. It is not regulated what these rooms are to have standards. Plus, eviction is, you know, pretty free. We're trying to fight to make things right. Another issue that is related to the rights of tenants in the city, in Warsaw and in many other cities is that people who are evicted get temporary rooms, which are in such a standard that they can only be heated with electric paint. Therefore, as the whole heating season passes, it suddenly turns out that their electricity bill amounts to PLN 3,000, PLN 4,000 or PLN 5,000. And they're kind of getting into another problem. We are also dealing with such issues and, you can say, energy security issues. If the senator wishes, we can prepare a full list of the various tenants we've been dealing with recently. Last case, Warsaw, which was solved Now I remember this, and it was related to the question of interpretation of the article. 691 Civil Code. It's about who can enter into the lease relationship after a dead person. And now there's a problem. If there is a dispute over real estate, if we are dealing with a matter of ownership dispute, then it is not possible to introduce people who live with the tenant into this apartment, only the whole procedure needs to be re-established. We managed to convince the capital city to change its policy in this regard. With regard to the assessment of what is constitutional, I will say that the Ombudsman, when presenting his observations, must refer to constitutional standards. We have such, not other rights and freedoms of the individual, we have such, not other interpretations and my constitutional task is to judge certain regulations and thus protect the rights and freedoms of citizens. Of course, what else is the judgment of the Constitutional Court. The Ombudsman may formulate opinions and persuade those opinions to be taken into account by the authorities of the State, the courts, the prosecutor's office, etc., but, of course, only the Constitutional Tribunal can consistently assess compliance with the constitution of laws and other normative acts. In the same way, only courts can apply the Constitution directly when making appropriate decisions and recognise that, for example. certain laws should give way to ratified international agreements such as the European Convention on Human Rights. As for national and ethnic minorities, I would say yes. On the one hand, we have a law on national and ethnic minorities which grants them certain rights, and on the other hand we have immigrants, mainly economic immigrants who live in Poland. And sometimes there are such interesting and quite paradoxical situations in my opinion, where in one village there are children who are descendants of representatives of the national minority who can learn Ukrainian language, and migrant children who do not have such access, similar opportunities. I think it's just something to think about. I do not mean to change the law on national and ethnic minorities now, because the nature of migration is different, and I am well aware of what the substantive, cultural and historical grounds have been and are linked to the recognition of certain minorities as national and ethnic minorities. However, it seems to me that in this context it would not harm the introduction of a solution which takes into account the rights of these children to cultivate their identity.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u59	Another round of questions. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, at 12:00, we have to adjourn the proceedings in connection with the opening of... [[Ad vocem I asked...]] Excuse me? [[I wanted to ad vocem.]] Yeah, I'm gonna give the senator the floor as a question tour. Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u60	Thank you very much. I'm sure I'll pass that minute so that you can sign me up for the next one... Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have questions about... You were talking about an important matter, about the fact that our citizens are having problems interpreting the law. I have to tell you, I, myself, who have lived through a little wartime, have a problem with that. How can you interpret the fact that the three retired women who came with the ruins... that this was classified as an illegal assembly? It wasn't enough that they were, for apology, written down, yet they were charged with organizing an illegal assembly. Minister, the point is, apart from this sort of thing... Is the preparation of some material... I went to the web sites of foundations that deal with human rights, and I saw that on some there is such, I would say, a set of behaviors, a description of how a citizen should behave towards services that react in a very efficient way now. On the unruly citizens. I think we're all having problems with that, so we have a question for you. Is the convention bill... Is Art. 51, 52 misdemeanors that speak of legal and illegal gatherings should be subject to our assessment? I'm talking about us as parliamentarians... [[Mrs. Senator...]] Yes? Already? [[Yes.]] You see... Good. I'm the one signing up for the next...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u61	Mr. Senator Bonkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u62	I would like to refer to what Senator Wcisla just said. I did not say that the current Polish-speaking media uses Goebbels propaganda. I said it was worse propaganda because they use such sociotechnics, so-called. Subliminal message to consciousness and this is what infects Poles to separate them. This threatens a very dangerous situation, because it can cause these people emotionally weak to do bad things. That's what I said. And I would also like to refer to Senator Napieralski's statement. I, in my previous statement, did not offend anyone in any sentence. I've found the facts. You're accusing me of not knowing the story. You're probably right, if you're thinking about that story you took out of the house and learned... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...which the communists wrote. [[...please ask the question.]] [[That's not a question.]] I learned this real story, and I took this real story out of the house...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Duda. [[...as opposed to you because you learned from this story for the Communists...]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal...]] [[Mr. Marshal, we have one minute until recess, and I would like to correct that statement. I'm entitled to it because my name is on it. Excuse me, Mr. Senator, may I? Permission granted, sir.]] Now Mr. Senator Duda. Why don't you sign up for the next round, after the break? [[But I'd like to correct, because that's what needs to be done. That's a corrigendum. My name came up, Mr. Marshal.]] [[I'm resigning to the senator.]] Please, Senator Napieralski. But just a little bit, because...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u64	Of course. Senator, don't insult me. I took a good upbringing out of my house. My father and my mother raised me in a decent, honest way... [[Voice from the room: He speaks nicely.]] ...and great. There's one more thing I'd like to say to you. You obviously don't listen at all. I've noticed that you don't know, you don't know what you're calling yourself, which is that ugly and outrageous assassination... [[Mr. Senator, it's already 12:00.]] ...a very violent assassination in Łódź. I think that...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u65	Excuse me, but we have a very important exhibition. I declare the session adjourned from 12 a.m. to 12.45 p.m. During the break there will be the opening of the exhibition of the Senate of the Republic of Poland III term (1930/35) and his Marshal Władysław Raczkiewicz. I cordially invite all of you. Thank you very much. After the break, we'll continue to ask questions. [[Adjournment in the sitting from 12 minutes 00 to 12 minutes 47]] I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We return to agenda item fourteen: information on the Ombudsman's activities for 2016 and on the state of compliance with human and citizen freedoms and rights. We continue to ask questions to the Ombudsman, Mr Adam Bodnar. Senator Duda's question, please. I don't see... Senator Shark isn't here either. Then maybe I'll ask your spokesperson to answer the questions he asked before the break.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u66	As a matter of fact, before the recess, there was only a question of Senator Shark who wasn't there. So that perhaps in the further discussion phase there will be an opportunity to react.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u67	Are there any more questions? [[Ombudsman Adam Bodnar: Because later it was just an exchange of views.]] Since there isn't, thank you very much, Mr. Spokesman. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Ryszka was the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u68	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! The message to the High House, including information about the Ombudsman's activities for 2016, is a reading for many days and nights, so to speak. Forgive me, but it occurred to me that with this huge, vagina and very detailed material, the Ombudsman's office wanted to cover it up, let's call it the ombudsman's faults. But while I appreciate your many successful interventions, I will take care of a few things that have upset me in the Ombudsman's work. There were so many praises here when we asked questions. It actually started with praise, and then the question came up. I would like to approach this report a little differently. For example, I do not understand why you supported recommendations for Poland operating at the UN Human Rights Committee, which in 2016 ruled that human rights in Poland are at risk. Nomen omen, among those countries that accused Poland of violating human rights, were among others. Russia, China, Saudi Arabia, Turkey. What would this human rights violation be about in Poland? At that time, concerns were raised, among others. planned introduction to the criminal code of legal protection of the good name of Poland, and specifically of punishment for the use of a lying term in the Polish death camps. Of course, there was also a case pending around the Constitutional Court, but then the Ombudsman unfortunately took only one side. Also in the past year, Mr. Spokesman I'm not afraid to use those words. He ridiculed the importance of his office, publicly recommending that complaints be made against the prosecution's decision to exhume the bodies of the victims of the Smolensk disaster. Every law student knows that the prosecution's decision is not subject to a complaint. This year, too, instead of defending the threatened Białowieża Forest, Mr. Ombudsperson spoke for the barkers by challenging the decision of the Minister of the Environment to increase the clippings in the forest to the Provincial Administrative Court in Warsaw. So you'd prefer the barkers to breed and eat the trees in the Białowieża Forest instead of trying to save the forest from this dangerous pest. And already the Ombudsman's statement that the cut-out of 188 thousand m3 spruce tree, which is very important, dried up over the past 10 years, was about to threaten, I quote, the health of society. To appeal to the senators' imagination, I would just like to add that in Poland about 38 million m3 of trees are cut out annually. So how are those less than 188 thousand to the 38 million? At the same time, it is astonishing to know the nature of your spokesperson, who teaches the Minister of Environment Jan Szyszka I will add: a professor who spent his entire scientific life dedicated to the protection of forests Because the spokesperson said that the Minister takes decisions without proper consideration. The minister's reminder by the mouth of the Ombudsman was that the Minister of the Environment, deciding on the possibility of increasing the clippings in the Białowieża Forest, should have convinced the public of the validity of these activities. This statement was made, among others. in the above-mentioned complaint of 22 September 2016 to the Voivodship Administrative Court. So maybe you could tell the minister how he should convince the public not to increase the clipping, since it was society that called for this clipping, that the local governments and organizations from the Hajnów district called for it, and even there were demonstrations organized by them in this case. While still on the subject of the clippings in the Białowieża Forest, I would add that, apart from referring to the Polish constitution, of course, he supported the ecological encyclical of Pope Francis. It's nice, it's nice, when the spokesperson . standing, in my opinion, far from the teachings of the Church This is how he expresses his concern for the cutting out of trees. But he remains deaf to the Church's voice on the protection of life from conception, on the in vitro issue of the indissolubility of a heterosexual marriage consisting of a man and a woman. So, simply put, Mr. Spokesman, knowing the provisions of the Polish Constitution that protects life, protects family and marriage, could at least refrain from promoting homosexual relationships. Similarly, in 2016, the Ombudsman put pressure on the Ministry of Health to allow minors, after the age of 15, to have access to gynecological benefits without parental consent and, consequently, to obtain access to them. It would widen their access to contraceptives. The reasoning of your spokesman is, I would say, brutally simple: since Polish law allows minors from the age of 15 to have sexual relations, it is unpunished. And since this is unpunished, it is not allowed for such minors to restrict access to these gynecological, urological, birth-contraceptive services, i.e. to be treated as adults. Mr Ombudsperson, the fact that minors are not involved does not prove that they are good, desirable social behaviour. And such questionable legal reasoning, because ignoring the provisions of the family and caring code, the civil code, and also, I would say, immoral reasoning, disregarding the value of human sexuality as a permanent gift to another man, does not suit the spokesman of all Poles. In the actions of the Ombudsman, there is a clear commitment to defending various minorities, including sexual ones, and there is not enough involvement in defending people deceived by banks, unjustly judged or, as happened in Warsaw, tenants expelled from apartments in connection with wild reprivatization. In short, Mr. Spokesman's conduct is very often only on one side of the dispute, to be more precise, now the anti-government one. I will not remind you of your political speeches concerning the Constitutional Tribunal when you threatened the Poles with the Venice Commission, exactly Article. 7 of the Treaty on European Union, i.e. that sanctions can be applied to Poland because we violate the standards of the rule of law and democracy. Well, it was an action. Even though you said you were apolitical, Hand in hand with the Civic Platform. I would like to appreciate the role of the spokesperson in the subject of Auschwitz, because I am I understand... Your position is very important, but, unfortunately, what you say: "We must remember that many nations participated in the implementation of the Holocaust, including the Polish people. It's out of context, but those words are dead. If this were to happen in another country, I'm sure you'd have to be dismissed for those words, or you would have resigned honorably yourself. I would like to point out that if the Ombudsman goes to a demonstration organised by a specific environment or party, he gives them support, not only for his own, but also for the institution he represents. If you're defending some group of people who think they're hurt, don't be surprised at the terms I read about on the Internet that we have SB spokespersons, sodomites, house cleaners. It is not my words, I call them so that the spokesperson of all Poles, if he speaks on a public matter, sees the fact that the current rulers understand the common good and even civil rights differently. Abortion is not a fundamental human right, as you think. We do not limit either the common good or civil rights to any category of citizens of our choice. Importantly, the current rulers are guided by the values and rights that Poland and Europe have shaped centuries ago, permanent and unchangeable rights, independent of the customs and cultural trends that dominated modern Western Europe, and especially the leftist Brussels. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u69	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u70	When I listened to Senator Ryszka, I remembered my favorite belt on always smart TV, the one and the most true, our public. In this bar it was written this way: Brussels allows Spanish people to fuck people, and forbids us to fight the printer's bark. And this is à speaking of Brussels... [[But mind your own business, and leave mine alone.]] I'm referring to... This is a discussion. Mr. Senator, please understand that as you spoke in the discussion, someone may refer to what you said. I'm really not going to argue with you anymore. [[Thank you.]] I'll just say I disagree with most of the things you said. It takes a lot of nerve to say things like that. By the way... Why are you talking about Brussels? What does Brussels have to do with the Ombudsman's report, Senator? What's that? Yeah, that's why you're begging for it. [[The discussion is about the Ombudsman, not about me.]] Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the Ombudsman for this report. I think it's not by chance so thick, it's not by chance that volume right now. We are just all watching what it looks like to observe the law in Poland and how important the Ombudsman has become, and how much is being said about it. And that's a feedback loop. I mean, maybe some people didn't notice that there was a function like the ombudsman, maybe they didn't notice it. Perhaps some individuals, too. And there were a lot of people like that. They didn't notice that there was such a thing as the Constitutional Tribunal, they didn't think about it. And it has been happening for two years that public awareness is growing in respect of both respect for civil rights and respect for the Constitution. And this is such a sign of our times that in recent years there has been an extremely great interest in both the Ombudsman's report and cases, e.g. The Constitutional Tribunal. Most Poles have not known at all that such a thing exists. [[Poles aren't dumb.]] But, ladies and gentlemen... Please? No. It's just that some people don't know that there's something like the police, either, because they don't have much in common with her. No one knows what a police hearing looks like until he's called in for the first time in his life. E.g. The lady who came to me for the first time in her life was a police officer. She wasn't even there during martial law. Because she was summoned for putting a candle under the Wrocław courthouse. And there she was written, then invited to the police and interrogated. And that's what it looks like right now. So that some people find out that you can be called for something like this... Crystally honest and decent people can be summoned for bringing a candle to the court in defence of the Constitution, for something like this, you can be called to the police and you can be intimidated. You told the spokesperson about this... We'll talk about it at our team meeting on Monday. We invite all your senators, including the Law and Justice, to attend the meeting to be held... We will be wondering whether it is possible to legally demonstrate in Poland how and how repression can be put at risk, and how to help people who, as it turns out, have to pay some fines or have to stand up to the police or are threatened by a college. Or a ticket or something. But there is also a sense of grief and harm, as in the case of Anna Bogucka-Skowronska, our colleague... You just can't do something like that. We were also sorry, as we saw Władysław Frasyniuk being taken out of the demonstration, a person so well deserved. It's just something you remember, and it's really, ladies and gentlemen, insanely sad. I would like to refer to what has been said towards Senator Fedorovich. In my opinion, it is possible to ask questions and we have the right to ask questions on different subjects and we do not need to be insulted. And just because someone's asking for a pension bill doesn't mean he's a defense attorney, and I would like to protest very strongly against such classification. If we can no longer ask questions about these matters that are the subject of our deliberations here, I really don't know where we are anymore. I sometimes feel that some of you would like the Ombudsman not to exist at all or that he would be your spokesperson, who would present such a report as you would like. I didn't see your spokesperson bragging about what he did in this report. He just wrote about what the spokesperson's office has been doing all year. And pay attention... 'Cause I've been through this report pretty thoroughly. Please check that politics doesn't take much space there. A lot of attention is paid to all kinds of things that are very close to people, housing matters, things that concern people with disabilities, etc., etc. These are matters very close to people, these are the tasks that the Ombudsman deals with. And it always has been. I do not see boasting there, I see a constant concern that the state of compliance in Poland will improve rather than worsen. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the cases that you raised in your speech by the Ombudsman I'm in the Committee on Culture, we deal with it every day, and there was a media law issue that, on December 30, 2015, as you remember, we passed on one of these famous nights and which turned out not only to be illegal... The Ombudsman expressed his opinion that this law violates the constitutional guarantees of freedom of expression and freedom of the media, subjecting public radio and television directly to the government and ignoring the constitutional role of the National Radio and Television Council. We had a meeting two days ago at our committee of Chairman Kurski. He gave us information about the state of television. I'm sure you're watching this TV. And unfortunately, what we are adopting has very specific consequences. Abolishing control of a company such as Television Poland... I am speaking generally about television, but this also applies to the radio, the Polish Radio, and this also applies to PAP, which is failing. The director who ruined this company is now leaving with shame. The Polish Television was also brought to ruin. What does that tell you? There's not enough surveillance. What worked better or worse, i.e. the supervision of the National Council, is now completely out of place. I don't know who you're listening to, President Kurski, I don't know who he's taking instructions from, but it looks like no one's responsible. And here we return to the right of citizens to access public media, which are objective, ladies and gentlemen, and do not charge us with propaganda from morning to evening. I'm talking about not letting it go. As long as we sit here, we, all the opposition senators, will not let go, will not allow the Polish media to... [[And what does that have to do with the spokesperson?]] It has to do with human rights, it has to do with, sir... [[...with a report.]] We need to look at the report. It's in the report. I'm talking about what's in the report, and I'm talking about what we talked about two days ago at the Senate committee meeting. And I'd like to say... [[It's been a long time since we've had such good public television.]] I know you think this TV is good. Okay, that's the thing. You think it's only good to have a TV that says what you think and what you want to hear. And I want to tell you that good or perfect TV is a TV that doesn't lie first... [[There's a TV in heaven.]] ...and there are no stripes like that, Mr. Senator. This is television, which, first of all, does not lie, second, is pluralistic, because we can see in it various kinds of opinions, both you and other people. [[Senator, 10 minutes.]] Well, thank you. Then I'm gonna take a break here and maybe sign up. In conclusion, I would like to say that I would still like to defend your spokesperson against those bad words that have come to your address, but I say this is the case: you must get used to it already, that you are a spokesperson of a worse sort. We're used to being senators of a worse sort, and when we listen to words like that, they just... [[Thank you very much.]] ...they don't get to us. [[We're used to your lies.]] Mr. Senator Ryszka, you can't insult me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u71	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u72	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The entire Crew of the Ombudsman! Dear Senators! Dear guests! Indeed, your report is an important witness. It is a testimony that we have entered our homeland into a time when we need civil rights defenders more than ever, because we are witnessing such a disregarding constitutional transition of other organs that should uphold the law, that we cannot fully count on it. I would like to thank you very much for trying here, in this Chamber, but also everywhere, to make it clear that the fight to uphold the Constitution, the rank and action within the constitutional framework of the Constitutional Tribunal, the fight for an independent prosecutor's office, the independence of courts and the independence of judges is in fact a fight for the possibility of guaranteeing respect for civil rights in Poland. It's in the interests of all of us. And I would like to welcome this course, which you have chosen, namely that not only opposition, but also such organic activities promoting constitutional rules, the role of legal security for individual citizens... This program that you've been here for, it seems, a little bit hooked up with, instead of being praised, should be praised. Because what we are witnessing here is that it is so easy to rape the constitution and destroy institutions guaranteeing civil rights, after all, as a result. It didn't come out of nowhere. It is the result of the fact that it is and was allowed to do so. And the rulers are calling for it. Why is that? That's because there's been a lack of reliable education. Now that, in fact, the public media that might have played in this area... didn't play, but could have played an important role... In fact, there are only direct meetings left, because we can't count on the propaganda tube of the rulers to be as you were acting as a controller of power. Sure, if the ombudsman liked the ruling party, the government, he wouldn't be the spokesperson. Whose spokesperson would he be? But of course it has to be, it always will be. And I think you're prepared and immune to it, whether you're gonna run the PiS or whatever... [[But I'm just saying...]] ...will be evaluated by the authorities in the field of law enforcement... [[But I support what you're saying right now.]] Thank you very much. I know we'll agree on that. But of course that does not mean that your activities by the rulers will not be judged and will not be done in polemics and disputes. It's natural, too. I would like to thank you in particular for all these anti-discrimination measures. Really and in terms of defending the institutions, and in terms of discrimination, contrary to what is said here, probably unattractively, in words, it is an action for Poland, it is an action for the benefit of the state. A country in which there is no discrimination, a country in which civil rights are respected, is a good country, good for all of us, no matter where we come from and what views we have. That's the way it's supposed to be. That is the case, Senator, in our dreams, and maybe we do not necessarily have to wait for Providence to come true, but we should act so that we can draw closer to this ideal. And it's not just about the interests of the state, it's about the interests of all of us. If you are defending against discrimination against immigrants, you are defending the important interests of Poland. 'Cause we're gonna be the one when we're supposed to be having guests. I would like to stress: guests Who would like to live and work with us, support xenophobia, irritate relations. So far it has been said that maybe people from Ukraine will receive, but also there we begin to see the enemy. So in the end, who will come to such a country, knowing that it can be hooked, beaten, thrown out of a tram, etc. That's the one you have to object to. And I share your view that in addition to your intervention and in addition to the intervention of the institutions, the voice of important authorities such as the President, such as the Prime Minister, would be important and good. That's what's missing. Of course, discrimination against older people is a big problem, a problem that is difficult to grasp, especially when it comes to abuse of economic violence. I am in the process of reading your report on these anti-discrimination measures and I must say that those parts that concern the elderly are impressive. As well as the fact that you are promoting by means of concrete almost that manuals instructions on how to act, how to defend yourself, and how we are to help them. This is a very good activity, worth continuing and constantly updating. Of course, I wouldn't be me if I didn't stress that we're on the same side again. Perhaps the Senate should be on this side, because it has special prerogatives in this area. In order to ensure that the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal on the benefits to caretakers of independent persons, these independent adults should be enforced. Well, the Senate feels that the judgments of the Court should be respected and respected. I understand that this is a difficult subject, that the case is costly, but there is a judgment of the Court, which should be executed, must be carried out. And your voice is also important, although it is probably the most controversial when you insist on people who have different sexual preferences. I cannot imagine that we are building such a order in Poland, and that is what we are always arguing about, what it should look like, in which Poland is not a mother for everyone. I think that's our main goal. We're going to talk here about these five truths of Poles, right? Polish Mother of ours, let's hope so. Thank you, sir, and the team as a whole, and I would like to emphasise this in particular: all of you. For the great work we see in the report. I hope you won't be such a leaf, you can't be pushed into the role of fig leaf showing that we have one independent organ, but that you will keep going in this direction to be like a lantern for many, show attitude, integrity, determination even when it seems to be fighting windmills when there are general answers when there is no progress. I'd like to say that what you're doing is important. Last year, when I was standing here on this podium, I was finishing with your words. I'm gonna do the same thing today, even though I'm gonna go deeper... Mr. Marshal is already letting me know that it's time to go, i.e. I think I have good timing because that's the last sentence. In fact, what we're missing is With all opposition to other attitudes, other views, even acts that cause great anger and anger, to remain ready for dialogue, to be ready for discussion. The words of Archbishop Nossol you quoted seem important to me to repeat. Yeah, just when it's so hard for us to get along, when the argument goes off, when the fight starts, let's remember that the only way out is through dialogue. A dialogue that turns an enemy into an enemy, and an opponent into a friend, as Archbishop Nossol said, and you're behind him. And that's probably the motto, that's how you read your report: here are the topics for discussion, topics for dialogue... [[Mr. Senator...]] The Senate should turn a large part of these topics into initiatives.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u73	Thank you. Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u74	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! Dear Colleagues! I'll start with the truisms, but I think that truism should go down here again. That's what you were just talking about, Senator Augustine. The quality of the state, the quality of democracy, even the level of the family, shows the attitude towards the oldest, the weakest, the excluded, the sick, the disabled. And behind these people, behind them in prisons is a spokesman. And that proves the strength of the state and the power of democracy. I think these ideals are also in harmony with the ideals of Christendom. That is why the question you have asked Senator Czerwiński is crazy: do you wish to strengthen the State, or do you wish to act against the State? Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is some kind of reversal. It is the strengthening of the state that is behind these people. But of course there's a connection. As Senator Augustine said just now With specific cases against state authorities. That's what the spokesperson's for. The Ombudsman shall be regarded as citizens in unequal contact with the State's machinery. His position vis-à-vis you, of course, is weaker, but all the more so should be equipped with resources, including financial resources, so that he can have real, real action. Ladies and gentlemen, it is impressive what you did to the Ombudsman, that he was interested in such a wide range of cases, and that he was so active. I'm not gonna talk about everything, I'm gonna focus on the rule of law, the justice system, because I'm already dealing with it. It scares me. 40 years. Yeah, counting from the National Judicial Council, it's been 40 years in the justice system, so I can say something about that. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not today's government, not Minister Jak's job of cleaning houses. Remember, see that the committee led by Marshal Sewerinski sitting here took care of this at the beginning of 2013 or even at the end of 2012, and in 2013 it received it from the Legislative Commission. Then we prepared a legislative initiative, because these cleaners acted, there were no legal consequences, because so-called. The indirect coercion was not criminalised. We have introduced three years of imprisonment for the application of indirect coercion. Remember that. And to say that today we claim to be cleaners is just abuse, I'll say it gently. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it's also a truism that the constitution is the highest law. If someone doesn't respect the Constitution... Each of us has promised a constitution, including judges, and whether it pleases or not, whether it is right or not, as long as it exists, as long as it is the most holy law of the Republic. Those who embezzle this law are unlawful, and there is no other way out of this situation. And the fact that a few constitutionalists in relation to several dozens or several hundred have a different opinion and will actually give an opinion on something that pleases the present power does not change the essence of things. Ladies and gentlemen, a few points in the justice system that have been highlighted by your spokesperson. The right of a person detained to contact a lawyer or counsel, i.e. a real right of defence, to regulate telephone contacts with a lawyer. That's what you're asking for. He's right to demand, yes, right. He's even nodding his head here, Counselor Silence. Come on. Guidelines to accept in the detention protocol that a statement made by the detained person is recorded that he has been informed of the reasons for the detention and of his rights. It's also a real right to defend itself. Use of illegally collected evidence in criminal proceedings, so-called. fruit from a poisoned tree. You're against it. Of course, we introduced a rule in the previous term. Mr Rabbitovski was the company of the whole new procedure. According to which each had a public defender from the very beginning of the proceedings. Let me stress: everyone. And of course there's no way... I ask you, in a normal state, that the court's obligation, as the Ombudsman says, to take account of evidence which has been obtained in breach of the rules of procedure, by means of a prohibited act, infringes the right to a fair examination of the case. Those are golden words. You're against it, and we're against it, too. The fact that we object means that the spokesperson is the spokesperson of the Civic Platform? Your spokesperson is interested in the right of the citizen. And that's the essence of things. Costs of the proceedings. A very important issue for every gray citizen. Cases of offences, issues of reimbursement of necessary costs, legal costs in civil matters, so that they are not a barrier. So what if we have a right from the court if it's limited by too high an entry? Is that real law? And that's... that's what you're running for. Failure to include VAT, like a small thing, in the necessary costs of the process... Well, since the formally necessary costs of the trial... If a lawyer issues a VAT invoice and it is not taken into account by the court, I ask: what is the justice here? He loses a citizen because he gets... He's counting on him to get a refund if he wins the trial. He's got an invoice from a lawyer or a lawyer, but it turns out he's being judged less by the court. And that's what the Minister is applying for. The Ombudsman fights the length of proceedings. There was talk of a limitation of cognition. These are questions about the gray citizen, and I would like to pay great respect to Mr. Spokesman for having such a modest team... You've done a tremendous, titanic job... [[30 seconds.]] ...with such limited financial opportunities, it is, in my opinion, a miracle. You're working in a titanium way, and this huge fan that I'm particularly interested in... Thank you very much, Mr. Spokesman. I'm very impressed with you and your work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But is it effective?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u75	Thank you. Senator Grodzki... Excuse me, just one more second ad vocem...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u76	Mr. Marshal, my name was used in the statements of Senator Ziientarski, who may have misunderstood the meaning of my speech, or maybe deliberately misconstrued it. [[I quote...]] What else is the violation of the individual's rights by public authorities or institutions The Ombudsman's office is responsible for resolving such cases. It is another matter of anarchy of the State, depropriation of powers and non-recognition of judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[What kind of property?]] This office is certainly not meant for this purpose. It has to be distinguished.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u77	Thank you. Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u78	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! It may be recalled that the name of the institution to which the Minister leads is the Civil Rights Advocate. This is not a spokesperson for the rights of the government, this is not a spokesperson for the rights of the authorities, whatever it is, this is a spokesperson for the rights of the citizens. In the world, spokesmen have different names. Ombudsman and the like But they do similar work everywhere. In the age of relativisation of laws, the loss of decency, the creative development of media propaganda by various governments, which would not be embarrassed by the masters of the art of lying and falsifying information from past years, advocates of civil rights are particularly needed. Nowhere, including in our homeland, is the ombudsman from enjoying the life of power and we should remember that. The Ombudsman is needed because many citizens feel that their fundamental rights From the right to assembly to the right to dignified old age or to own an account They are broken to an unprecedented extent in the history of the Republic of Poland after 1998. I do not want to give you a number of examples, which are given in your thousand-page report, because this has already been mentioned. But even if we compare the behaviour of the Canadian and Polish authorities towards police officers who killed an innocent man, we will see that even though they tried to cover for them in Canada, they had consequences in the end. And with us, in fact, they get privileges, completely undeserved. It is necessary to make it clear to the people who killed the man. For murderers. I am proud of your activities in a difficult world, your balanced judgments, based on facts, the search for truth, and, above all, the concern for a gray citizen, lost in a false reality. I declare, Minister, that as a senator of the Republic of Poland who has sworn on a constitution which he considers to be a great honor to serve in the House of the Higher Polish Parliament, I will support you in an endless battle for citizens' rights. All citizens. All citizens of the Republic of Poland, regardless of their skin color, religion, political views or health status. That is because, among other things, this is the beauty of our country and unity in diversity. And your battalion, your efforts to remove power from the head of trying to push us into a more or less bizarre framework and visions that do not conform to the diverse character of our beautiful nation, deserve the highest respect. Therefore, I wish your team and you every success so that you can continue to carry out the slogan of John Paul II. Don't let evil prevail, but overcome evil with good. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u79	Mr. Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Spokesman! I was celebrating my birthday last night. Thank you on this occasion for all your wishes. [[Happy birthday.]] Thank you very much. In one of those wishes, a good man wished me Happy birthday to you in this strange country of ours. Ladies and gentlemen, the strangeness of our country makes the Ombudsman's report almost a thousand pages full of human rights violations. As a senator, in this strangeness, this narrative about human rights, which is also practiced here in the Senate, frightens me. Because if not us, the senators, and if not now, then who and when will fight in Poland for the rights of the citizen and support the Ombudsman? As a political scientist and graduate of Catholic social teaching at the Catholic University, I will say that in this chain of victims of violations of the rights of the citizen sooner or later there will also be a parliament, including the Senate, that is, us and our rights. And that's the future soon. Because, ladies and gentlemen, if, in the Seym, the Marshal of the Sejm punishes the Member with a financial penalty for his attempt to submit a formal application before this request is made, we are now close to the fact that the rights of the Member and of the Senator and the freedom of expression in this oasis, which should always be a temple of freedom of expression, are already being violated. What about the Senate? What example did we have yesterday, ladies and gentlemen? Some senators wanted to pay tribute to Piotr Szczęsny, who made the act of self-burning to signal that human rights, citizens' rights are being violated in Poland. Well, how did the marshal react? He said: in Poland there are 5,000 suicides, we will not pay tribute to everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, in Poland more than 4 000 people die in communication accidents. Who are the victims of the Smolensk disaster? They're victims of a communication disaster. There's no evidence of anything else today. Only an idiot would consider these victims to be a statistical mass that we don't have to think about, and we treat Mr. Piotr Happy as a statistical unit. This is a normal country? Of course, I think that no one will personally agree with such a narrative, even if in his party sale he accepts such narration, because there are events which, ladies and gentlemen, become a symbol and stigmatism of certain processes. If today Senator Ryszka brings a cut in the Białowieża Forest to the phrase: trees which are cut annually in Poland, I ask you, Dear Sirs... If in Poland, let's assume, I don't know what the number is, but let's assume that this is a storm of 100,000 houses during the year and on this occasion some ruins of the medieval castle will be demolished, then we have to minimize it and say: this falls into 1%. demolished houses in Poland? No wise man will accept such a narrative. [[Empty trees, empty trees...]] What else is... Mr. Ryszka, please speak and step into the bleacher, not argue with me. If someone does not understand that there are symbols, there are things that have value beyond statistical value, and such a man is in parliament, it is drama. If, ladies and gentlemen, for 10 months, we cannot find out if the premier's car, which caused the traffic collision, had the signal on or did it not have the signal on, how can we search for civil rights in this country? If, in such an example, we cannot determine the truth, what can the citizen hope for? What about the Stachowiak case? Ladies and gentlemen, if the Polish state says that today we are not able to judge the guilty death of a citizen who was killed at the police station, and at the same time you believe that you have the right to judge police officers not for accidents 20 months ago, but for accidents 30 years ago, and in a collective way, do we not live in a strange country? And these cops are called ubekami? Ladies and gentlemen, this is pure Orwell. If Orwell was writing his book today, she'd be much more radical. Ladies and gentlemen, High Senate, I give these examples because they prove that we live in a strange country in a country where neither the state nor the ruling party is an ally of the Ombudsman. And I need the senators here, especially on this side, to confess... [[They have a name for you senators. They have a name...]] ...that in this strange country, without seeing an ally in the country for the victims, unfortunately I also had to resort to the European institution in order to defend the rights of the victims. Several thousand people Mr. Spokesman spoke about them, was deprived of the right to work in a collective, wholesale manner, without any possibility of seeking justice in Polish courts. The only option left is to appeal to European courts. And such conclusions we pilot on behalf of those people who stayed by the Polish state and by you who voted in favour of these wholesale laws releasing people... The point is that the European Parliament, the International Court of Justice, should deal with these people and say that Poland, the Polish state, does not respect human rights. Fortunately, there are still people like Dr. Adam Bodnar, fortunately there are institutions like the Ombudsman. Thank you, Mr Spokesman, Minister, for the help you are giving us in the fight to defend civil rights. [[On behalf of the Platform.]] I, as a senator of the Republic of Poland... I'm not doing this on behalf of the Platform, I'm doing this as a senator to whom people harmed by the Polish state have come forward. And I wish you what I wished you in the beginning, that your reports should not count a thousand pages, but be thin, how thin some laws are, and boring like these laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u81	Senator Shark. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Start with me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. No, I'm not gonna start with Senator Ryszka, I'm gonna start with Senator Czerwinski... [[Voice from the room: Do you have to?]] Yeah, I do. Although I always listen carefully to the senator and I often share his views. What's a state? I thought that this country was also us, that it was all citizens, too. So if you fail, someone has to defend them. You were talking about the Constitutional Court's judgments that Dr. Bodnar did not respect these judgments. or about them in a different way than the one requested by the State. There was a judgment of the Constitutional Court which questioned the choice of this composition, but this judgment was not published, so it is not a judgment... [[So it's not a judgment.]] [[Voices from the room: There it is.]] So it's a sentence. It's a sentence... [[It wasn't announced.]] ...just wasn't announced. Should we treat Polish law in this way? If so, we have a discrepancy... I mean. completely different we will approach the treatment or performance of basic duties, such as the execution of judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. Because there, too, citizens have sometimes volunteered with the last hope that gave them the opportunity to appeal to the Constitutional Court, and now they must have lost that hope as well. I would like to thank you from this point of view, to join in the thanks which have already come from the speakers and, at the same time, to feel sorry for you, Minister, that you must listen in the High House sometimes to instruction, to poslajanka, and sometimes to a slightly threatening threat. But I think you've gotten used to it, I hope, and you've already been one of the few in the office, you're one of the few who stayed in your position, so I think you're going to have to accept this form of discussion as well. I also thank you for the material prepared by your office, although I regret that as it counted as many as a thousand pages, it did not come to us, to all senators. I just hope that some senators just didn't read this material; he's really very interesting and worth reading it, getting acquainted with it, because it's very informative, even for the future. I'd like to say that, unfortunately, we live here. I'm going to repeat here after Senator Strictly, except I'm not going to call it that we live in a strange country. Where the Marshal of the Sejm speaks to the Member of the Pajac, three retired women are arrested for smoking, where the victim is referred to as an insane person and there is no empathy and compassion for the family and loved ones. In almost every country's voice, there was a longing to hold society's face and that we would all just be afraid. Even parliamentarians have to watch their mouths, because one can do anything, e.g. Talk about treasonous murders, and others get immunity for asking questions. The freezing measures are also based on the fact that for filing a formal application... that the Member has not yet made a formal application and is already being given a financial penalty. We have only 27 years of freedom, and a human rights defender, a lawyer and a very sick person are called to the police for questioning, as we know. During the interrogation, she's asked who was with her at the demonstration, who talked her into it, who was standing next to her. Another woman at the same demonstration in court defense was charged with littering because the paraffin from her candle was dripping to the ground. I want to tell you that my colleague came to the college from Koszalin in his martial law school. To punish him somehow... His gas was dripping. Or maybe it wasn't his little guy dripping? He also received a similar punishment from the same article. That's something to talk about. If we don't talk about it, who will? You have come to this office in very difficult times, Minister, but it is already the case that the best people come to difficult times. Unless I have to watch national television, without reacting to the behaviour of police officers in Wrocław and people who, despite having knowledge of the torture and death of a young man, Igor Stachowiak, have retired peacefully and receive very large benefits, would be deprived of the title of humanity. We must not be indifferent to these facts. You can't do that. Mr Ombudsperson, once again thanking you for the material presented and for today's meeting, I would like to say that if all means and fuses fail, you will, I hope, remain a guardian of the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u83	I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Would the Ombudsman, Mr Adam Bodnar, like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches in the debate? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u84	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Thank you very much for your questions, for today's speeches, for the discussion on the status of respect for rights and freedoms and information about the Ombudsman's activities in 2016. In my final remarks, I would first of all like to thank my colleagues very warmly. It's not just a standard thank-you. If it weren't for their commitment, creativity, and also for their creativity, I would particularly like to stress this. The sense of great responsibility for what they are doing would certainly be different. So that I would very much like to thank them. I would also like to stress and thus refer to the speeches of some senators that the Ombudsman is a constitutional body that deeply believes in the sense of continuing the activities of the predecessors. I am very pleased that this has been recalled, for example, in the context of the fight for the rights of tenants. This is the Senate as a result of numerous interventions by Prof. Lipowicz took appropriate action in this regard. The Ombudsman's office is exactly the same people as before. They carry out the same activity and the problems of citizens are still close to them. It is extremely important that the office, which is to be close to the citizens, continues to do so. My role here is to be a helmsman for 5 years and to strengthen, to support my colleagues in the great work they do for citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that it is still necessary to repeat that the Constitution of 2 April 1997 is still in force in Poland. It's been in force for over 20 years. This is not just a manual for Parliament, government and individual state institutions. This is also a set of defined values. They are included in the Constitution and relate inter alia. to topics such as combating discrimination, respect for diversity, respect for human dignity. Nothing has changed in this respect as far as the Constitution is concerned. These values still apply. They're related to what's in the preamble to the constitution. The creators of the constitution were, but so are we, memorializing the bitter experiences of the time when human rights were violated in our homeland. That is why there is a whole institutional system, that is why there are guarantees of protection of rights and freedoms, that is why there are ombudsman, courts and the Constitutional Tribunal to protect these rights. Compliance with these rights is one of the tasks of the State mentioned in Article. 5, alongside security, alongside sustainable development. In this context, the problems with the independence of the Constitutional Tribunal are something that burdens the functioning of our country and has concrete consequences for the rights and freedoms of the individual. Many of the requests I made to the Constitutional Court, for example concerning the protection of the right to privacy in the context of the activities of special services... I don't know how long they'll be waiting for recognition and whether they'll be recognized independently at all. Therefore, especially now, it is extremely important that courts both apply the constitution, refer to the constitution and refer to international agreements which concern respect for human rights. It is important that all state authorities remember that the Constitution is in force because it is important to resolve various problems. Before the break, there was a question of freedom of assembly, about various aspects of freedom of assembly. If the police were to act in a spirit of respect for the article in various situations. 57, the freedom to organise peaceful assembly, it would not have even come to the idea of legitimizing anyone because of keeping a candle and being in a public place, because that's what constitutional freedom is all about, that you always look for the benefit of freedom. In case of doubt, decide for freedom in dubio pro libertate. This is the value that runs the basis of our constitution. If we are in a situation where these values are misinterpreted or in the direction of strengthening the State, it is my duty as ombudsman to protest against this in order to clarify this in order to support those affected. I would also like to stress that what I have been trying to keep since the beginning of my term of office is the maximum impartiality in the performance of this function. I've heard here that I'm supposed to be attending demonstrations. Since 9 September 2015, I have never been to any manifestation, I have not given any honorary patronage to any manifestation, because I believe that this manifestation is the space in which a certain opinion is expressed and the Ombudsman's participation in the demonstrations would be in violation of the rules of his office. So that I would like to strongly protest against those words. The fact that the Ombudsman does not participate in the demonstrations is a standard of public life. If we are talking about impartiality, please note that in many public speeches, even today, I have repeatedly said that as far as the development of social rights in Poland is concerned, there has been progress in recent times. I said, "I live in a good program, but let's think about the details of the eviction." In all my speeches, I try to make sense of the actions in question, and I welcome the situations where dialogue with authorities is successful and different issues are shared with citizens. And I encourage this dialogue. I believe that this dialogue should continue. At the same time, however, I cannot agree to the violation of constitutional values concerning those institutions which are intended to serve citizens and protect their rights, in particular independent courts and the Constitutional Court. There's another point to this. Art. 17 and the Ombudsman Act says that the Ombudsman is cooperating... There it is written, among other things, that with international institutions dealing with the protection of human rights. If we go to Geneva, we read various resolutions of the UN Human Rights Council or the position of Secretary-General of the UN Council, it is clear that national human rights organisations should cooperate with relevant international bodies. It is a standard that national organisations present the so-called. shadow reports, shadow reports, relevant treaty bodies Whether it's the UN Human Rights Committee or the UN Children's Rights Committee, which is what the Ombudsman is doing, whether it's the UN Economic, Social and Cultural Rights Committee or the Disabilities Committee. And I'm doing it, too. I'd like to present my positions that are based on... They are nothing but a summary of previous actions which were taken by the Ombudsman. And then I hear a charge that I am acting to the detriment of the Polish state. Nothing more vicious. I have a deep respect for what is in the Ombudsman's law and also a deep feeling that the democratic state is not ashamed of cooperating with international bodies at international level and explaining the different circumstances that are also related to respect for human rights. Here was the remark that I allegedly compromised myself in the context of exhumation. I think in the eyes of a lot of people who wouldn't want to go through with it so that they forced me to exhume, I didn't embarrass myself. I think they had respect for my attitude. And I would like to stress that the issue of how Article should be interpreted in this particular context. 209 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, pending in the Constitutional Court, i.e. the court divided the argument that there are doubts, and addressed the legal question to the Constitutional Tribunal. Moreover, the Polish government has also been communicated Senator Silence knows what it means best of all of us here in the courtroom. The case of Mrs Solska and Mrs Rybicka against Poland, where the Court is beginning to wonder how to interpret the article. 209 k.p.k. in this particular situation. And we'll see what the outcome is. And I don't think that in situations like this, you can't have the right to an independent court to decide how to resolve the conflict between the prosecution's interests and the interests of people who don't necessarily have to agree to exhumation. The court should decide that. There is no such guarantee in Polish law. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, It's raining here many times. The question of dialogue. The Ombudsman is not here to put pressure on one minister or another to attack a minister. The Ombudsman directs general speeches, draws attention to a specific problem, encourages discussion, encourages discussion. And this conversation is often undertaken. An example of the Ombudsman's intervention was given as to how many girls over the age of 15 who can legally begin their sex life, as far as they can have access to a gynecologist independent of their parents. This is a specific social problem resulting from the fact that many girls of this age engage in in intercourse without their parents knowing. This is a perfectly natural situation for people who observe how our social life develops, read sociological reports. Whether we like it or not. I, as I think of my own sons, would probably prefer that they start sexual intercourse when they're adults, when they know and can think about what it's all about. But this is my moral evaluation. And the facts are, what are they, that this line of intercourse is decreasing. And now the question arises: are we supposed to think about the fact that these girls will be exposed to all kinds of diseases and problems related to their lives in this area or not. And this is where I started this dialogue. It wasn't the pressure on the Ministry of Health, it was the dialogue. Moreover, they agreed with my position as a national gynecology and obstetrics consultant and a patient's attorney. So it's not like this dialogue has gone into emptiness and hasn't been undertaken. However, I regret that this problem will not be resolved and that the issues of how our social life is shaped will not be taken into account. In the end, I would like to say that, contrary to many opinions that are presented on my subject, as I sometimes think of myself, I think of myself as actually a conservative. I know that what I'm about to say may surprise you. But I believe that a conservative is a person who thinks in such a way that the power of the state is the power of state institutions. Institutions that implement constitutional values that deal with their activities seriously in such a way as to respect citizens in the maximum possible way. This will be the strength of the Supreme Audit Chamber, which effectively controls the state. This will be the strength of Parliament, which takes a long time to reflect on the content of the rules, so that they are as thoughtful and risk as little as possible in terms of distortions or violations of laws. It will be the power of the courts and their efficiency. This will be the strength of the Senate as a House of reflection. You remember that for years I have emphasized that the Senate plays an extraordinary role as the Chamber of Reflection, but also this Chamber, which promotes, for example, What I said today at the beginning of my speech This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from commitments remaining to be settled from previous And the fact that in the Senate, thanks to Professor Seweryński, Marshal Seweryński, there are meetings devoted to reflection on the report on the execution of judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, it is not meaningless. This is a very important thing shaping the strength of this House as well. But the strength of the institutions is also the strength of control institutions, such as the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman and other spokespersons. If in Poland we have a situation when the state institutions are strong, when the principles of the rule of law are respected, then I guarantee you that the Ombudsman's report will really be short. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u85	I thank the Ombudsman, Adam Bodnar, for presenting the information. I state that the Senate has read about the Ombudsman's 2016 activities and the state of compliance with human and citizen freedoms and rights. Senator Secretary, please read the message.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u86	Meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on the review of the Act amending the Budget Act for 2017 - Senate printing No 644, and the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2017 - Senate printing No 645, will take place on 13 November at 17:30 in room No 217. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u87	Thank you very much. I'm ordering a recess until 3:00. After the break, we'll proceed to the votes. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 07 to 15 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u88	I'm reopening the session. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I would like to inform you that the light standing on the president's table is the Fire of Independence, which was brought from battlefields near Kostiuchnówka by the Hufc Zgierz bike relay. The graves are there... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] ...our senators take care of it, for which I would like to thank you. Thank you for the presence and support of this initiative by Senator Andrzej Spajek and Senator Grażyna Sztark. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Law on Maritime Labour and some other laws. The Infrastructure Commission presented a proposal requesting the adoption of this law without amendment.Senatian printing No 617 A. We'll proceed with the vote. Please proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 75 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 1]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Maritime Labour and some other laws. We are returning to the second agenda: amendment of the Retail Tax Act. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 618 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 78 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 2]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Retail Tax. We are returning to the third item on the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Local Taxes and Charges. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances and the Committee on Local Territorial Government and State Administration have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendment of Senate Print No 629 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Local Taxes and Charges. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on collective supply of water and collective discharge of waste water and certain other laws. The Committee on the Environment, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Local Territorial Government and State Administration have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments, while a minority of the committees have submitted a proposal for rejection of the act "Senator's Print No 640 A. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. We proceed with the vote on the minority's motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 31 for, 50 against. [[Voting No 4]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the motion of the committee to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 82 senators, 54 votes against, 27 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on collective supply of water and collective discharge of waste water and certain other laws. We return to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law establishing the multiannual programme of the University. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań 2004 The Committee on Science, Education and Sport has presented a draft resolution in which it asks for the adoption of this law without amendments of the Senate Print No 616 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 Senators voted, 80 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 6]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the establishment of a multiannual programme, the University im. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań 2004 We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Law of Civil Procedure, the Law on Upbringing in Sobriety and Against Alcoholism and the Act on the Protection of Mental Health. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is available in print No 619 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The committees have decided to adopt the law without amendment. The minority amendments have therefore not been taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u90	Thank you very much, Senator. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committees, Senator Grażyna Sztark, to present proposals supported by a minority of the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u91	Thank you very much. I'm on my way, Mr. Marshal... [[There you go, Senator, from the spot.]] I ask you to vote on these amendments, because they're really...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u92	Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? Senator Grażyna Sztark and Senator Piotr Zientarski. [[No, thank you.]] Thank you. Senator Andrzej Mioduszewski. No? [[No.]] Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 55 were in favour, 28 against. [[Voting No 7]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code, the Law on sobriety education and combating alcoholism and the Law on the Protection of Mental Health. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code and the Law on perpetual books and mortgage. After the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is available in print No 559 X. We proceed to the third reading. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Alexander Swede, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u93	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, the committees at the joint meeting on 9 November 2017 dealt with the draft amendment to the Civil Procedure Code and the Law on Perpetual Books and Hypotheses and responded to the proposals submitted in the course of the discussion. On behalf of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, I request the support of the proposals contained in paragraphs 1 and 2 and their adoption by the Senate together with a uniform draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code, the Enforcement Act in Administration and the Law on Perpetual Books and Hypotheses and the draft resolution on the submission to the Sejm of this bill, contained in print No 559 S. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u94	Thank you, Senator. Do you still want to speak as an applicant? [[No.]] No. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur and at the same time to the applicant in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to ask you such a question? Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, amendments will be voted in the order of the text, in print No 559 X, and then in the adoption of the draft, in print No 559 S, in full, as amended by the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 aims to clarify that the further fate of the security provided under the rules on enforcement in the administration depends on the creditor's request. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 77 were in favour, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 8]] Amendment 1 was accepted. Amendment 2 seeks to regulate all inter-temporal issues according to the scope of this law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm asking for a quicker vote... yes, and the results. 78 senators voted, 76 were in favour, two abstentions. [[Voting No 9]] The amendment was accepted. We proceed to the vote on the adoption of the bill in its entirety with changes resulting from the amendments adopted and on the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. The committees propose that the Senate authorise Senator Alexander Swede to represent the Senate in further work on the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 10]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code and enforcement proceedings in the administration and the Law on perpetual books and mortgage and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this bill to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Alexander Swede to represent the Senate in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on the recognition of invalid judgments handed down against persons repressed for activities for the independent existence of the Polish State. I would like to remind you that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would like to remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No 480 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Robert Mątkow to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 11]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the law on the recognition of invalid judgments handed down against persons being repressed for the purpose of the independent existence of the Polish State and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Robert Mamytkow to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act on the amendment of the Law on repatriation, the Act on the Charter of Poles and the Act on Foreigners. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad have presented a draft resolution in which they propose amendments to the Senate Act No 637 A. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety will be adopted, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 aims to clarify the provisions in order to indicate that the provisions of the Foreigners Act will apply not only to the issuing of residence cards but also to their exchange and cancellation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 12]] Amendment 2 clarifies the provision in order to ensure that it is properly understood. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 13]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 3 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 14]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 4 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 15]] Amendment 5 aims to clarify the provisions in order to indicate which grants are concerned. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 80 were in favour, 1 against. [[Voting No 16]] Now which one is it? [[Voices from the room: 6th.]] Six? Well, I didn't give up, that's what. Amendment 6 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 17]] Acknowledged. Amendment 7 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 82 were in favour, 1 against. [[Voting No 18]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 8 aims to introduce into the Act a provision temporarily maintained in force implementing rules issued pursuant to Article. Article 80 (1) (b) and (c) of Delegated Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 1 The Act on Foreigners which, as a result of an indirect change in the content of the provision authorising the adoption of an implementing act, would cease to have effect on the date of entry into force of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 9 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 20]] Amendment 10 reduces the date of entry into force of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 33 for, 47 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 21]] This amendment was rejected. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 80 for, one abstention. [[Voting No 22]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on repatriation, the Act on the Polish Charter and the Act on Foreigners. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act on the National Education Network. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendment. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 23]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the National Education Network. We are back to discussing item 11 of the agenda: the law on the financing of educational tasks. The meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport took place during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 625 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Margaret Kopiczko, to present the committee's review.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u95	Yesterday at a joint meeting, the Scientific, Education and Sports Committee and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration adopted a draft law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u96	Thank you very much, Senator. I would ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committees, Senator Piotr Wacha, to present proposals supported by a minority of the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law, in addition to the part concerning the financing of educational tasks, contains a serious, extensive part of the change to the Teacher's Charter. These regulations should be included in a separate law. This is not only due to the basic position supported, among others. through the Legislative Office, but above all because these changes in the Teacher Charter significantly change the system of promotion and evaluation of teachers and cause serious controversy, not only ours, but also trade unions and people who participated in the public discussion. Hence, I ask that you support the amendments of the minority committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u98	Thank you, Senator. Does Senator Jerzy Czerwinski still want to speak? [[No.]] Thank you, Senator. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 51 votes against, 28 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 24]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law on the financing of educational tasks. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Basic Health Care Act. The Health Committee has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without any amendments to the Senate Print No 634 A. We proceed to the vote on the motion submitted by the committee to adopt the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 56 were in favour, 27 against. [[Voting No 25]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Basic Healthcare Act. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of the law without amendment of the Senate Print No 630 A. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to be quiet, because it's bothering you. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution presented by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 56 were in favour, 27 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 26]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals. I would like to inform you that the agenda of the 40th Senate meeting has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the next meeting, convened on 14 and 15 November, was sent to you by e-mail. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements whose contents cannot be determined or whose delivery by the senator would not be possible within the time available, i.e. 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to take the floor and make a statement? Senator Andrzej Kaminski is the first. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to make a statement from the Polish senators to the authorities of France and its representatives in Poland on maintaining the process of unifying the peoples of Europe by keeping the cross on the monument of St. John Paul II. Poles have a lot to do with the French. There are many figures that bind Polish and French cultures and traditions. Such characters include, among others: Frederick Chopin, Maria Skłodowska-Curie, Robert Schuman and John Paul II. Their great ability to build human relations and bring the hearts of both nations closer was a special feature of all these people. Robert Schuman, the great Frenchman, experienced suffering in his little homeland of Lorraine, which for almost 10 centuries was on the border of countries, passed from hand to hand and was alternately owned by Germany or France. Poland had similar fates. During the time of partition and captivity, France gave refuge to many great Poles who became good citizens of France and promoters of culture, science and Christian values, which express themselves in caring for human dignity. This Christianity was the first to emphasize the equality of all people regardless of their class and racial affiliation and spread, according to the St. Benedict Ora et Labora, the morality of the work, assuming that the duty to do it becomes a service for God's creation. Just as a father and a mother can connect their children, so a second man can be the best link between two people or two nations. Such a uniting man is Robert Schuman, who incredibly strongly urged to build a community of nations and communities between people by building relationships and unity of the spirit. The European spirit means being conscious of belonging to Christian culture as a family and ready to serve this community in a spirit of complete reciprocity, without any ulterior motives, hegemony or selfish exploitation of others. Nothing better connects two people like another man. An institution, capital, party or even an idea can't bring people together as much as another human being. In the history of relations between Poles and French we find excellent figures, which have fulfilled the role of combining and building relationships in different fields through practical attitudes and testimony about humanity. We cannot reject the great strength that man has in building relationships between men. Therefore, we cannot give up such strength and human potential for the institution, capital, and even the law that is contrary to the law of love or against the relationship of friendship. The United Europe will not stand day by day and not without obstacles in its path. Its construction will follow the path of the spirit. Nothing that is permanent is done easily. Europe is on its way. Above the institutions, however, the roots of the idea of the community and its spirit of solidarity as a community are crucial. John Paul II, before he became a saint, went through the suffering of a cruel war, and later was persecuted by the communist regime, which on the way to building relations between people did not put another man, but ideology, capital and institution or party. Therefore, by drawing lessons from history, we must not remove such a human value from the space of building a good quality of life for societies and nations. It was thanks to John Paul II, who appealed, like Robert Schuman, for reconciliation, that a peaceful transformation of the communist system in the Eastern block into free nations took place. Only a community of peoples of solidarity, freedom, justice and peace will emerge from reconciliation. Let us reach out to our enemies yesterday not only to reconcile with them, but to build Europe together tomorrow. Biographers comparing Robert Schuman with John Paul II, they pointed to three similar qualities: the pursuit of peace, man's love, the contemplative style full of pride and seriousness, and the focus on a man who, regardless of everything, has the greatest dignity among all creatures. Agreeing on the great role played by these two great people in the history of Europe and our two nations, St. John Paul II and God's servant Robert Schuman, we cannot separate them and the fruits they have brought by contributing to unity, solidarity and peace in Europe, from their attributes and roots from which they drew. John Paul II produced from the strength of God and the Cross of Christ. Whether someone believes it or not, it is impossible to imagine John Paul II without the Cross. By removing the Cross from the life of Charles Wojtyla, we would not have John Paul II and we would not have the fruits that he brought to Europe. Therefore, in the name of this great value, which is man, we humbly ask all the authorities in France, our French brothers and their representatives in Poland to preserve the image of the identity of the person who was and is St. John Paul II, a man with the Cross, because without him he would not be the same. As followers of the great son of France, Robert Schuman and the promoters of his ideas, which led after the war to the miracle of reconciliation between France and Germany, we ask our French brothers: do not take the Cross away from John Paul II. With respect, we send our brotherly greetings. Here are the signatures of 19 senators of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u100	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Libicki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am sending my senator's statement to the Minister of Environment, Mr Jan Szyszko. On 27 September this year, the Council of the Notomy District adopted appeal No 34, also addressed to all public institutions and to parliamentarians. Allow me to read the not-so-long justification of this appeal. Apel No 34 of 27 September 2017 of the Council of the Notomy District on the prevention of the effects of heavy rainfall and action on the regulation of the rivers Sharka, Black Water, Mogielnica, Obra and the Prut and Mosiński Canal. Intensive rainfall, which occurred in the last months of this year in the area of the Novýtom district and neighbouring districts, increased water levels in the watercourses of the river Sharka, Black Water, Mogilnica, Obra, Prut Canal and Mosiński Canal, as well as the presence of waters from the riverbeds and flooding of significant agricultural land. As a result, there are losses in crops, root crops, vegetables and grasslands. It is worth noting that this situation is repeated with varying intensity over the past years and is caused by In addition to strong rainfall It is also a poor condition of watercourses and melioration in these areas. Moreover, the existence of numerous beaver habitats is not without significance, which cause difficulties in the free flow of water by building there and by feeding on the above mentioned streams. Insufficient action in this respect causes repeated flooding and associated losses. The Council of the Nowotomyski District therefore calls on all persons, institutions and services responsible for maintaining drainage facilities and watercourses to undertake work to eliminate the risk of flooding and flooding in this area. She signed the Chairman of the Council of the Novotomist District, Maria Galas. In view of the fact that the institution of Polish Waters has recently been established, and besides, I believe, this situation is not only present in the district of Nowotomysk, but also in other counties in Poland, I am asking Minister Szyszka what is the scale of this phenomenon as regards the area of our country. How many counties face a similar problem as the district of Nowytomyski? And what is the Ministry of the Environment planning to do in the near future, but also to act longer-term to counter this phenomenon and the damage that is described in this appeal? I am aware that this cannot be completely eliminated, but it is certainly possible to take some action that will help these people, farmers affected by this situation. I'm actually the places that are described here. At least some of them I visited personally. The situation was indeed difficult. Therefore, I ask Minister Szyszka to draw up plans for the coming year, or perhaps for a longer period, to determine the scale of this phenomenon as far as Poland is concerned, and to answer what measures will be taken to counter it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u102	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Senator George Wright.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! This statement is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, Prime Minister Beata Szydło. Dear Prime Minister, European territorial cooperation programmes are important instruments to support border areas across Europe. Border areas are at the same time peripheral areas, usually with major development problems. Such an area is the warmińsko-mazurskie voivodship, the primary beneficiary of the Cross-border Cooperation Programme Poland Russia 2014.2020. Unfortunately, the prolonged process of approving this programme raises concerns that it will not be implemented at all. The programme's budget is over EUR 62 million, which is about PLN 260 million, of which PLN 180 million comes from EU funds. This amount is similar to that of which the government does not have for complementary investments allowing the use of the construction of the channel by Vistula Plant, among others. by Elbląg. It is worth recalling that the programme was approved by the European Commission almost a year ago. Why, then, has it not yet been adopted by the Council of Ministers? Can Poland afford to give up EU funds for the development of poorer, border regions? Who and why blocks the introduction of this scheme, in which 90% of funding can be received value of the investment? It is worth recalling that in 2007 and 2013, several dozen road investments were made from this programme, including 20 ambulances for Elbląg and Kaliningrad and a modernized museum in Elbląg. Local authorities, institutions with specific projects, among others, are waiting for the current programme. the construction of a bridge in Bartoszyce, an amphitheatre in Elbląg, a marina in the Waterfront and many other prepared projects. At the marshal's office, a joint technical secretariat is waiting ready, beneficiaries are trained, documentation has been prepared. I call for real and effective action to be taken to ensure that the Polish Poland, especially the outermost region of Warmia and Mazury and Podlasie, cannot afford to abandon such measures. Please inform us about the current situation and the chances of launching the Polish Russia programme. I have another statement. The statement is addressed to the Minister of Justice of Zbigniew Ziobra. Dear Minister, From the information that reaches me, it appears that as part of the modernisation of the prison system in Poland, the situation of the Branev Penitentiary, which from the closed facility is to become an external branch of the Elbląg detention centre. I ask you to re-examine these plans, as it is possible that these decisions have been taken on the basis of incomplete information. I'm convinced of this conversation, among others. with local authorities of the city and district and representatives of the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union Officers and Prison Workers in Braniewo. In recent years, many renovations and modernizations have been carried out in this facility. As a result, the number of seats increased from 204 to 230 with the possibility of setting up a half-open branch for another 40 seats, without increasing the staffing staff, which means that the cost of living in prison will significantly decrease. In addition, thermomodernization was carried out, solar panels were installed and the stroller was renovated. The facility adheres directly to the District Court in Braniewo, which eliminates the costs of convoying to the court. However, the planned reorganisation will result in additional costs related to transport to the Elbląg court, 45 km, as well as the costs of dismissals and briefings of administrative staff. Besides, such a reorganization will be misaccepted in Branev. According to the analysis of the Institute of Geography and Spatial Management of the Polish Academy of Sciences, Braniewo is on the list of cities threatened with loss of socio-economic functions. The city suffers from a lack of jobs and the penal facility is one of the larger employers. I would ask you to examine the arguments put forward here and other arguments in favour of using the possibility of developing a plant in Branev and against limiting its role. I believe that they will be a rational basis for changing plans. Please inform me of the decisions made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u104	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Grodzki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! On behalf of the group of 17 senators, I am sending a statement to Mrs Beata Szydło, President of the Council of Ministers. On 20 October, after the National Public Prosecutor's Office's request, an exhumation took place for the second time the funeral of the deceased. Colonel Jarosław Florczak, High Officer of the Government Security Office. Colonel Florczak was the head of the protective operation on the day of the Smolensk disaster. Eight officers of the Government Security Bureau were killed along with him. To the amazement of the family and loved ones, the BOR chaplain did not arrive, nor was there a banner of formation or an honorary post. Mrs. Prime Minister, or the deceased officer of the BOR are also included in the division of those who deserve a decent, consistent with our centuries-old tradition of burial, and victims of a worse sort, or is it a penalty for critical assessments regarding the cooperation of the BOR with the President's Chancellery expressed by your colonel? Don't you think, Prime Minister, that you've already made enough division among the living members of public life and that your family and loved ones are asleep? Colonel Florczak belongs to the Polish government as a word of apology? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u106	Senator Shark, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u107	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. This statement was made by 16 senators and concerns the sitting... I'm going to present this statement now. Well, on October 13th, at the forty-eightth session of the Sejm, you didn't allow it. Because this is a statement addressed to the Marshal of the Sejm In order to present a formal proposal by Sławomir Nitras, and later, using the decisive power of your own voice effectively, you have punished him with a penalty of 1/2 of a reduction in his salary for a period of 3 months. This is an outrageous and unfortunately not the first example of the voluntaristic treatment of the law by your Marshal and of putting himself in the role of his free interpreter. For obvious reasons, you were unable to determine before hearing Mr Nitras's statement whether the speech that has not yet been made meets the criteria of the formal proposal or whether it does not meet them. So if someone hasn't completed the formalities, it's you. However, it is not an error in the proceedings of the Sejm that is most worrying in this case, but an effective way of punishing the Member for demanding the right to vote, which is guaranteed by the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm by every Member. It is unacceptable for the Marshal of the Sejm, whose most important task is to uphold the rights and dignity of the Sejm, to use his position to close his mouth to Members and then use the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm to harass these Members with severe financial penalties. We are protesting against such practices, as Parliament is the last place to tolerate the restriction of freedom of expression, which is the basis of parliamentary democracy. The role of the marshal is to chair the deliberations efficiently, not to exercise its powers in order to limit freedom of expression. In 2017, 200 years have passed since the infamous German Sejm. We do not agree that this is the model towards which Polish democracy is pursuing, so we expect you to revise the decision to punish Mr Sławomir Nitras and in the future prove that you are able to direct the Sejm's deliberations in accordance with the law and inalienable principles of democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u108	Thank you, Senator. Senator Swede, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u109	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a statement to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction Andrzej Adamczyk. Dear Minister, I would like to express my thanks to you for the activities undertaken over the past two years, both directly by the Minister and by the director of the cabinet of Łukasz Smolęka and the director of the Wrocław branch of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, Mrs Lydia Markowska. In my view, the activity and intensity of the Directorate-General's and the Ministry's activities in addressing security issues must be assessed positively. An important aspect of the action was undoubtedly the question of increasing the financial limits of the 2014-2023 National Road Construction Programme with a view to 2025. Given my senate district of Kłodzki, Ząbkowicki and Leoniowski districts, I must appreciate the construction of the Kłodzek ring road and many smaller investment tasks carried out under the programme for the decommissioning of dangerous places and the programme for reducing the number of deaths, as well as the action plan within the road network itself, which concerns the national road No 8. Currently, renovations are being carried out at the level of the municipalities of Germany and Łagiewniki. The design documentation is also being prepared, in which 6 variants of the major reconstruction of the national road No 8 are considered on the section of Wroclaw. Kłodzko. This will be a good continuation of the S8 national road from Wrocław and better communication towards Prague. We hope that in the future we will be able to include it in the national road construction programme and gradually implement it. An important aspect here in my opinion was the decision of the Directorate-General to introduce permanent solutions at the intersection of ul. Rabbit with national road number 8 at the altitude of the city of Kłodzka. Thanks to the understanding of the representatives of the subordinates of the Minister of Units, we have obtained a decision that the road will be expanded, and a transition for pedestrians with asylum will be designed in the middle, and a left turn will arise towards the street. Rabbit side of Wrocław and a constant speed limit will be introduced. This will significantly improve traffic conditions and improve pedestrian safety. Due to the high traffic at the intersection, it is worth considering introducing also light signals here. As a result of numerous interventions by residents, I would like to ask for this investment to be complemented in the future by this solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u110	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Gogacz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u111	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! My statement is addressed to the Deputy Prime Minister, Professor Piotr Gliński. Prime Minister, the diocese of Siedlce is preparing for the 200th anniversary of its existence, which will be solemnly celebrated from 7 to 9 June 2018 both in Janów Podlaski, the first diocese capital and in Siedlce, with the participation of representatives of the Polish Episcopate. One of the many initiatives that the diocese will take at this solemn time will be the transfer of the temporal remains of Archbishop. Jan Marcely Gutkowski, who lived in the years 1776 and 1863, from Łyczakowski's cemetery in Lviv to Janów Podlaski, where they will be placed in the crypt of a collegiate who was in the past a cathedral and a place of shepherding by the bishop. Archbishop. Jan Marceli Gutkowski was the second bishop of the Podlasie diocese and lived in Janów Podlaski in 1826 and 1840. For his integrity and loyalty to God's law, the decision of Tsar Nicholas I was arrested in April 1840 and deported to the Governor of Mogilev from where he left for Lviv after his release in 1843. In 1856, he was appointed the title archbishop of Marcianopolitan. He died on 3 October 1863 and was buried in the Łyczakowski cemetery in Lviv. As Senator of the Republic of Poland, I fully support the efforts of the diocese to bring the Bishop's body to Janów Podlaski and I ask the Deputy Prime Minister to provide all possible assistance in order to implement this intention to grant consent to exhumation and transfer the bishop's temporal remains. Please inform me of your position as Deputy Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-10-senat-49-2.u112	Thank you very much, Senator. There are no messages. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 40th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office of the Senate's work room 255. Forty-nineth session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[Meeting adjourned at 15 minutes 48]]
